ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u1	Good morning. We resumed the meeting, with the fifth item on the agenda: questions for an oral reply by the President of the Union. Mr. President of the Galician Presidency of Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, asked about the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to achieve real and effective equality between women and men in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. Núñez Feijó. After 13 years of erratic rule of the People's Party and at least questionable equality policy, Galicia is worse than the rest of Spain in the matter of equality. And the fixed picture is the following: female active population is less than male in nearly 50,000 people, which is a difference of almost 9% in activity rate. Galicia is at the female activity rate 5.4 points below the state average. According to the average annual Labour Force Survey of 2021, there is a 2.2% difference between the number of employed men and women employed in the labour market as a whole. Besides having more unemployment and more partial contracts, women suffer more notoriously from temporary recruitment. At the level of training, men always maintain higher employment rates, except in higher education, where they are equal. 76.4% of the day-to-day reductions by legal care are requested by women, as are family care surpluses; 74% are caught by women. Even though the rise in the minimum inter-professional wage has made the wage gap better in 2019, today there is still a pay gap between women and men in Galicia, which is quantified at 19.3%, which means that the woman works almost two months a year without charge. And the pandemic — not like that! It has only made this situation worse. The lack of measures by the Board to alleviate the effect of the pandemic on gender has caused the gap between men and women to increase by nothing less than 65%. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, of 170 occupation groups, only in 28 there is a parity representation between men and women; I repeat: of 170 occupation groups, only in 28. But this gender gap is materialized not only in the labour force, but also in other areas, such as teaching staff or researchers. The University of Vigo — I say because it is not a study taken from the offices of the Socialist Parliamentary Group — points to the existence of a gender wage gap in this collective, which is mainly due to vertical segregation, that is, to the decrease of women as the hierarchical scale rises. Women who, by the way, are penalized when they decide to be mothers, because they are not widely recognized as effective working time for maternity leave. And that gender gap -- as it does not! -- is also felt in the family sphere, because women are still the main ones responsible for the tasks of home and the work of care both greater and smaller. In Spain, women spend an average of 26.5 hours a week on these tasks, compared to the 14 men's. And we can also talk about the gender gap in the STEM races or how that inequality permeates even in the courtyards of our schools, where there is a need for policies geared towards breaking up gender inequality from the cradle even within the educational field. I could go on, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, but I don't think it's necessary, since the data show failure and even in some way the lack of effective policies on equality in your government. Equality policy, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, must be believed, because 8M goes far beyond making a poster and climbing it onto social networks. Galicia needs transversal mechanisms and policies in all areas, real measures to achieve effective equality between women and men. Galicia finally needs to feminize its institutions, Galicia needs a feminist government. That is why I ask you, Mr Feijóo: what are the measures you have planned to take in Galicia to end the gender gap in all spheres of society? Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, are you a feminist?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u4	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, I have listened with great interest to your data. I'm surprised again that you come with data just called, I suppose in good faith, but they don't resist a minimal objective comparison. Ask me what we planned to do. I simply remind you very recently of the last decision. Last Thursday at the Council of Galicia, we presented a new draft law on equality in the Autonomous Community. Recognizing everything Galicia has modernized its policies and also everything Galicia has done in recent years, there are obviously things to do. I hope and hope that this law will have the majority support of the House, so we will try, we will present this law in the last quarter of this year. [[Applause]] In this law, ladies and gentlemen, it includes continuing to fight against the macho violence of new forms of harassment, for example in networks, in the technological media. Try to find safer urban spaces. And, in the labour market, insist on and persist in conciliation and teleworking. And also a special treatment for the women of the sea and for the women of the countryside, who well deserve it and so demand. Your Honor, this government, after forty years, has built a Department of the Galician Union exclusively for employment and equality, because equality begins with work skills, training and decent wages. And that's why this employment and equality department is going to follow the structure of the Galician Union. We're better than Spain's measure and we're better than Europe's average. Your Honor, the employment rate, according to the EPA, in 2009, when you ruled, was 57%; now it's 60.6%, i.e. 3.6 points more female than when you and two points over the average of Spain. The female EPA unemployment rate in Galicia is 12.8; in Spain, where you rule, is 16.7. Your Honor, the female unemployment recorded in February 2022 was 89,000 women; it's the lowest female unemployment since there are records. Let's move on. Memberships, five thousand women affiliated with Social Security, exactly 449.005; it's the historical record of the Greek economy and female employment in the Autonomous Community. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you're still manipulating data. In time, 73% of women have indefinite contracts, above all we meet when we get to the Government, and in part-time work, according to EPA, 78.2 of women is on a full-time basis. So, all this official data, Your Honor, I make it available to the President of the House, because it seems that everyone comes here and says what he wants, so they believe it. On the salary gap, Your Honor, the annual salary structure survey, the latest published by the INE, believes that the wage gap in Galicia is 19.3; it is large, no doubt, but it is the sixth best wage gap in all Spain. And when we compare wage gaps in wages per hour, Galicia has a 10.1 crack under the European Union, which has 14%; under Germany — 19.2 — under Finland, France or the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. So you don't think women in Galicia don't know this, and of course women in Galicia know perfectly well that we have policies, for example, the last proposal of Plan Employs in Women, of more than 34 million euros. Of course, Your Honor, we are the self-governing vanguard community in equality policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u7	Thirty years ago we approved the first Equality Plan, thirty years ago we were in this Chamber, the comrades who were then presenting the first Equality Plan of the Autonomous Community, and from thirty years to here we have done all the equality policies that refer to the data I have just mentioned. Galicia, in terms of equality, is better than the average of Spain and better than many countries of the European Union. But, Your Honor, let's keep working. Since 1992 we did not need, of course, socialist governments to bet on equality; we bet on the first plan. We've just made the seventh balance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u8	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u9	...plan. We invested EUR 400 million in equality policies between 2017 and 2020. And now we are presenting the basic principles of the Eighth Strategic Plan on Equality 2022-2027, which we are going to adopt next month. So, Your Honor, if we have a new law, we're already drawing up the new equality plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u10	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u11	If we increase more resources than ever in equality policies and if we have more female employment than ever in Galicia and more women affiliated with Social Security than ever will understand, Your Honor, that the amendments to the whole of equality policies had to be made to us towards the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u12	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you literally say that everyone comes here to say what they want, including you, of course, including you. Because look, if the data on the female activity rates drawn from official statistics are false, if they are the documents of the University of Vigo itself, the highest academic institution along with the other two universities of this Autonomous Community, we have a serious problem, and it turns out that these institutions are saying things that are not true. [[Applause]] But, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you can also say what you want. You come here, as always, with your propaganda. We know the press announcements of that future law, which, by the way, should not be extremely urgent, every time you just said you'd come to this parliament at the end of this year. But will this text correct all the problems arising from twelve years of its equality policies? We need real measures, Mr. Feijóo. We need real measures to update the Women's Health Care Plan, to set up the Institute for Integral Health of Women, to develop the status of women farmers and farmers, to develop a new strategy of equality in rural areas, to establish gender equality clauses in public administrations, to implement concrete legislation on equality in work, to develop specific real policies to combat inequality in Galicia. And this, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, are proposals. Having said this, the doubt that comes up to me is whether you're defending a position here and what you're going to do when you have to make agreements with those who want to end feminist politics. You said yesterday — which I share — that questioning equality policies is Paleolithic. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, your new traveling companion in Madrid has left pearls, and I'm going to speak in Spanish, because you know that sometimes translations are lost with respect to the original. Women are now slaves to feminism, because it does not let us think or act as we want and men see their fundamental rights injured. Carla Toscano, Mrs de Vox. The gender gap is a myth on the left. [[Murmurs.]] Rocío Monasterio. If the woman pays less, it's simply because she decides so. No woman pays less than a man for being a woman. I don't know any woman who's had any impediments to being a woman. Gender violence discriminates and penalizes man for being. Etcetera, et cetera, et cetera. It's not "end of appointments," because it could go on till last morning. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, it is true that these statements are from the Paleolithic, but from the Lower Paleolithic, when the homo habilis and not the homo sapiens were bellied, and of course, I do not want to forget that you are going to establish agreements with a negationist party of macho violence. Mr. Feijóo, I repeat my question: are you a feminist?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u14	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u15	You should know, Mr. Álvarez, that the processing of bills in a democratic state, in a democratic government, starts with public information. And so we're in public information about the legislative text. When we arrive at the public information and when we hear any of the evaluations and any of the contributions, we will continue to process the bill, approve it by the Government and forward it to the House and then approve it. This is what happens in democratic regimes, gentlemen. We don't make real decrees to validate them in the House without any discussion with civil society. [[Applause]] That, Your Honor, let us leave you, Your Honor. To use Parliament in a tortured way to hide and not be able to dialogue and not build laws, we let the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Your Honor, I think it is very good that you quote me certain considerations from certain Members who are not in this chamber. The roof until he bled, first vice president of the Government of Spain, Mr Iglesias. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They say he's second, he was really the only vice president [[Laughter]] But really, Your Honor, I don't come here to do national politics. Looks like you do. Don't worry, Your Honor, at least we have a chance to make national politics, I hope I can debate with you in that context too. Because those who were on that bench went to Madrid quickly and those we were in here are still here. [[Laughter]] But to say that I'm making data when we talk about the Active Population Survey and registered unemployment and social security, do I invent data when I say there's 499,000 women on social security? Is that a fake data? Or when I say we have less temporality and more indefinite employment or when I say we have less wage gap, are these false data? Look, Mr. Álvarez, what you just said used data someone did to you. It gives me the feeling that you should look at the sources of your data. First, second, third and fourth Equal Opportunities Plan, Galician People's Party; first Equality Law in Galicia, 2004 Eighteen years ago, Galician People's Party; establishment of the Local Entities Network against Gender Violence, characterization of the Union in all cases of macho violence as a result of death, Galego Monitoring Centre for Gender Violence, Centre for Integral Recovery, a permanent period open to women seeking aid for gender violence, Bono Allugueiro Social, Medals Pardo Bazán, recognition in the laws of the Galician Gender Violence, a subject within our public education. Your Honor, have we really come here to learn from the equality policies of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? No, Your Honor. Ask me if I'm a feminist. Look, Your Honor, I will never use women to make politics, never, never, never respectful feminism, equality feminism, real feminism, the feminism of freedom, are absolutely militant of all these feminisms. [[Applause]] From sectarian feminism, from instrumental feminism, you don't count on me for this. [[Applause]] Look, twenty-five thousand squares of children's schools are betting on conciliation, twice as much as you had. In the year 2021 Galicia is the only autonomous community with children's schools...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u17	...free for seconds and successive children. That's betting on conciliation. In the next course Galicia will once again be the first autonomous community in all Spain to have free childhood schools for all Galician children. That's to bet on conciliation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] To bet on conciliation is to put children's houses in the countryside, where there can't be schools because there are hardly any children. And also put the biggest houses in the countryside, where we can't make residences, because the residences are in the neighborhoods. And the Welcome Card, 127 million euros in five years, 78,000 families attended. This, Your Honor, is betting on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u19	...conciliation and this is betting on the woman. Look, Your Honor, we'd like you not to use the woman to make politics. We recognize the absolutely decisive role of women in our society. We recognize that there are still macho behaviors in Spanish society and in Greek society, but the least Members of this House, men, can do is respect women and not use them to make politics. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u20	Thank you. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the intentions of the president of Galicia regarding the resignation of his office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u21	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u22	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, in 2020 you, in the full election campaign, left us a headline: "My commitment to Galicia is greater than to my party." We know, Mr. Feijóo, what the value of his word is. I've not been surprised by the truth, because you've been subjugating Galicia for 12 years to the interests of the People's Party and obeying what was commanded from Genoa. There are some who believe that you are Feijó the moderate, but it is really Feijó the subordinate and now, yes, with Mrs Ayuso's permission, you are already preparing your bags to go to Madrid, and tell us that to prevent the struggles of the People's Party from founding it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I'd like us to ask ourselves, half a minute alone, what caused those fights. Well, a new isolated case of corruption from the People's Party. And what is Mr Feijó's answer to this situation? [[Murmurs.]] Asking the Prosecutor to investigate, ask him to go to the latest consequences? No, no. He made a whole ethical statement of principles: the dirty rags must be washed in the house, and he wants to bar under the carpet a new case of corruption of the People's Party. Look where, a new case of corruption of PP is the red carpet that you were waiting for to go to Madrid, haunted by a case of corruption; small political achievement! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And it is in your right — I told you at the last plenary session — to pursue your personal ambitions, but, once you make it clear that your priority is the People's Party, you have to resign as President of the Union, because every minute you follow is a lack of respect for all the Greeks and the Greeks, especially Mr. Feijóo, to the Greeks and the Greeks who have trusted in your word. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Because look, we had so far a president and a government unable to solve the problems of this country, and now what are we going to have? A absent president, Mr Feijóo, who is falling? We have the gas, the light, the gasoline, the basket of the shot purchase... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u24	...with unabated prices, Mr. Feijóo, who are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u25	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u26	...by drowning families and they're putting thousands of companies in serious trouble in this country, and what are you telling them? He's going to rule Galicia over his cell phone, Mr. Feijóo. But what a disrespect this is! [[Applause]] Between rallying and rallying of the People's Party, you think you can rule Galicia by mobile phone. The Greeks and the Greeks don't deserve this, Mr. Feijóo. That's why we ask him when he's going to resign as president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u28	Mr. President, keep in mind that I'm in physical presence and I'm not doing a telephone check session. [[Applause]] Your Honor, when will I resign? Did you ever self-form this question? I'm telling you because I thought in democratic politics those who lose the elections continuously and constantly should think of resigning. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] We, this bench and this government have been ruling the country here for 13 consecutive years because it has won all elections by an absolute majority since 2009. You've been in the Chamber for twenty-two years, you've lost all the elections to which the Galician Nationalist Block was introduced, all, absolutely all. Your Honor, I believe that, with this history and the criterion you have just implemented, you should think about it when you resign but everything will remain the same. [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] You criticize me constantly and continuously, they criticized me because I didn't know how long I had to think about going to Madrid, since I arrived as councillor at the June 2003 -- it rained, uh! -- then in 2018 I was also criticized because I didn't go to Madrid, but it wasn't because I didn't want to, but because they didn't want me; and now I'm criticized the contrary. But, as I say, everything follows the same: there's a government in Galicia that works and there's an obsessive opposition to trap Galicia's evolution and modernization. Look, last week the Council of Galicia Council approved a battery of measures for the city of Ourense absolutely necessary: infrastructure, health, sports, technology. We presented a preliminary draft of the equality law and I myself presented the general lines of the Board's Strategic Plan until 2030; not because it happens to us in the last week, but because we had made it in the last six months. This week's board of directors will be back, we will approve the strategic plan, we will approve the Water Management Improvement Bill and we will evaluate and discuss the role of the Galician board in the Conference of Presidents; that chairman you always support, Mr Sánchez. And what has BNG dedicated himself to for these weeks? Home!, of course, talking about PP and criticizing Feijóo. Well, it's been twenty-two years for you in the House, there's no surprise. But if there are surprises, for example when asking for the dissolution of NATO, it's NATO that has to dissolve. Ukraine is being massacred, it's killing the civilian population, now bombing hospitals and ambulances, and BNG refuses to condemn these kinds of attacks against international law, against human rights and against the sovereignty of a country. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, but as we can continue to enjoy the replica shift, I would like to ask you one question: do you think Mr. Valentín Formoso, Secretary General of the Socialist Party, should I resign? Yes or no? He's not in charge, he's got three positions, but he's not in office, but he's not in office, he's not in office, he's not in office, but he's not in office, but he's in charge of two government charges: mayor of a council and president of all the municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] Do you think, Your Honor, that every minute you spend and don't resign is a lack of respect for the neighbours of the Bridges, that you don't devote yourself to that Town Hall? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u30	Do you think every minute that passes and doesn't resign doesn't apply to all the municipalities in the province of Coruña, who presides over them? Your Honor, it is good to tell me if you believe that the Secretary General of the Socialist Party, mayor of the Bridges and president of the Crown Deputy, must resign or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u32	Mrs. Pontón, please or against? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u33	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u34	Mr. Feijóo, I must acknowledge that you are an excellent candidate to preside over the People's Party of corruption, the People's Party of corruption and lack of ethics, the People's Party of corruption and lack of ethics. [[Applause]] The lack of ethics he showed today and yesterday in this parliament when he ordered to use the pain of the Ukrainian people to attack BNG with lies. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, how can you use the thousands of dead, the millions of refugees to attack the BNG with lies? [[Murmurs.]] It's a political indecency, the most indecent thing I've ever seen in this parliament. [[Murmurs.]] You, Mr. Feijóo, are father, and I am mother, and these days we have seen images that break the heart to anyone. [[Murmurs.]] How could you want to use that pain to use a lie and not mind being lying to this camera in this parliament, Mr. Feijóo? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, you've now taken a path that is the way of Madrid, and in your party we've seen how they spend it, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] I, you know, will wish you one thing with all my heart: that you never have to suffer the manipulations and lies that you carry by infringing the BNG and my person. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And I'm sorry that not even at your discount time as President of the Union will be able to stand up to the Greeks and the Greeks. You have been used as an electoral slogan that the People's Party is what it looks like most to Galicia, and it's a lie, because the Greeks and Greeks are honest people, they're working people and they're people who keep the word given, just the opposite of you and the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, deserves that respect and is not the arena where you feel waiting for your train to come to Madrid. The Greeks and the Greeks who trusted his word know he lied to them. And today what you have to let go is that the crises of the People's Party condition that Galicia does not have a government and that you have a president who thinks you can replace the presidency with a mobile phone, indeed, Mr Feijóo! [[Murmurs.]] That's why I repeat the question again; I hope you don't answer it on a TV set and we listen to it on this camera: when you're planning to resign as president of the board?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, the number of disqualifications, infamy and wiggles I've had on this camera since I arrived can be compared to any other pronunciation of this spokesman, especially of you, especially of you. [[Murmurs.]] If you think you can come here to say that I want to preside over a corrupt party and remain so belligerent, Your Honor, it is absolutely insidious that I will not accept. I know you don't even have the ability to ask anyone for resignation, firstly, because you've never won the elections and you're not legitimized to do so, and secondly, because by which you apply the theory of resigning probably the first thing you should resign is you, because you're not even able to have a gesture of humanity at a critical moment, in a war in Europe's gates, in the face of freedom, the right to life, sovereignty and ownership of territories. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, it turns out that I am manipulating the Spanish Socialist Workers Party to make a joint statement that you refuse to admit. But they don't refuse to admit because they don't agree, but because they're fractured; they don't refuse to admit because they don't agree at the bottom, but because you don't lead the BNG. And when someone doesn't lead one party, he has to insult what leads the other one just to cover up his clumsies, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I know that it turns out that being a Europeanist and an atlantist is against the dignity of people. Turns out to repel aggression, isn't it heartless? [[Murmurs.]] It turns out, Your Honor, that here the BNG, who calls for Galicia's independence within the Spanish nation, disagrees with the sovereignty of Ukraine within the nations of the world. It's a very surprising thing, Your Honor, it's a very surprising thing. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I understand that you don't have any legitimacy to ask Mr Formoso to cease. Mr. Formoso has a secretary-general and two government charges, two government charges, two! [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, I have an organic charge and a government charge, "end of the appointment"; I'm not incompatible with anything, and you know it. In any case, I know perfectly well that I will fulfill my duties as President of the Council of Galicia until the last moment and I will never give up fulfilling those obligations and have no assumption of incompatibility or even organic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I know you can't ask Mr. Formoso for anything, because that would break the pacts of the Crown Deputy. And you, in order to rule, are able to rule with anyone. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, to put the party's interests ahead of Galicia is to ask for a coupon regime in the autonomic financing that is against all the interests of Galicia. To put Galicia's interests before the party, the BNG, is to go on the same paper as Basque independence — Bildu — and that Catalan independence —The Republican Left of Catalonia —. To anticipate Galicia's interests, which is what BNG does, is to subscribe to Mr. Sánchez's investment and then complain about the price of light, the price of gas and the lack of competitiveness of the Greek economy. [[Murmurs.]] To anticipate Galician interests, Your Honor, is to defend positions in favour of Mr Putin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u38	Reiterate: to put Galicia's Western democratic interests ahead of it is to defend Mr Putin's position, which is the last major contribution of the BNG to Greek politics. But, Your Honor, you will know what they do, and you will know how they want to be in this story. And when it's over, you'll see who defended the freedom of the Ukrainian people and who looked to the other side, just for ideological issues. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, I am very clear that I am fulfilling my duty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u40	I will not give stability to the People's Party at the expense of Galicia's stability, I will never do so. Galicia is my mother and, therefore, Your Honor, one never rejects her mother. [[Murmurs.]] Now, I tell you one thing, Mrs Pontón: in the short space I have left as President of the People's Party of Galicia — but, above all, as President of the Council of Galicia — it may be greater than you will have in the future as President of the Autonomous Community. [[Applause]] Nothing else, Your Honor, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u41	Thank you. We're still on the agenda. Let's go back to point three, not law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and sixteen other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in respect of aid programmes for the inclusion of women in a situation of vulnerability and/or at risk of social exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u42	There is an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u43	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Paula Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bring to this plenary today an initiative of momentum to move forward towards real equality. The integration of women's diversity into the gender perspective also means considering the multiple discrimination present in the lives of many women. The so-called cross-sectional approach, developed since the 1980s, implies breaking with the monolithic vision of women, to begin to understand that this category is fragmented by variables of social origin, age, culture, sexual orientation and other issues. When it comes to connections in these categories, we must take into account that they have a multiplier effect on discrimination, so public policies must take positive action that counters this effect. And the cross-sectional approach points to warning of the need to address the situation of women in contexts of particular vulnerability, which sees their lives marked by the amplification of discriminatory structural variables. Therefore, women experience multiple and interrelated forms of discrimination that affect them differently in each case. Some groups — such as rural women, adolescents, older women, minorities, women with disabilities — may be at increased risk of gender-based violence and even other situations of inequality. In short, we must focus on the lines of action in a cross-sectional manner, so that the public policies that develop in their future take into account specific needs related to these factors that we have just said, in order to move towards real equality, in response to the conjunctive needs, to the crisis caused by the pandemic, but also structural, taking into account the diversity of Greek society, in general, and women, in particular, from an intersectional perspective aimed at achieving a truly inclusive society. Therefore, the President of the Union has just given us a series of data, but others have told us and we have observed how the Council of Galicia has made a firm commitment to the Greek society for equal rights and opportunities between women and men, which inevitably goes through the fight against gender violence, against the eradication of the wage gap, to improve the employability of women victims of gender violence, the promotion of female entrepreneurship... And all this, politics, resolves, materializes in the budget. And if we go to the budget this year, we observe how the Employment and Equality Council has increased for the area of equality the budget until it reaches EUR 31.4 million, that is 14% more than 2021, and more than 24% compared to 2020. We are talking about EUR 13.6 million for the promotion of equality and 17.8 for the fight against gender-based violence. Well, our impulse initiative aims to promote a series of actions by the Galician Union, such as the maintenance and expansion of programmes and assistance aimed at the socio-workable inclusion of the most vulnerable women, to consolidate resources for women with disabilities, to strengthen the perspective of gender in the environment, to support the professional promotion of women in the cultural field and the visibility of their artistic production, to promote good practices and the involvement of the media in promoting equality and awareness of society, and to consolidate and promote equality in the field of sport. Well, these are performances that must be incorporated into the work that has already been done by the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia. As for the promotion of equality, there are many actions that we can describe, such as aid to local councils and entities, support for women's information centres. That was one of the first steps towards equality in Galicia, under a Government of the People's Party; in the 1990s the first five information centres were created to the woman; by the way, they were only at risk of closing within a short period of time in which the People's Party did not rule precisely; but, except that black shadow of government, the number of women's information centres scattered throughout the territory increased every year. Well, in the aid to women's information centres, we're talking about EUR 4.3 million for promoting conciliation, aid for promotion and equality, aid for associations and social-initiative entities. I always say this: we believe in the pluralism of well-being, we believe in the social initiative, we believe in the work that does the third sector, we believe it is essential to continue to advance in this work. Why? Because the administration doesn't get anywhere. Because when governments are accused of privatizing, outsourcing, logically the one who accuses of it later when government does the same thing. But many of these actions, many of these services are carried out by social entities, by important associations, by associations that believe in them, many of them formed by volunteers and volunteers who devote their lives to this work. So you also have to support them, and you also have to budget them. Aid to ANPA, federations and ANPA confederations, so important to carry out outreach activities between families, students and educational centres. Tips for compensating workday reductions and supporting reconciliation and co-responsibility. It is also essential for us to support these conciliation and co-responsibility measures. I always say that women's incorporation into the labour market became abruptly. The woman has joined the labour market 100%, but the difference is that men have not joined home and care jobs to the same extent. And that causes a dysfunction that leads to many women having the so-called double a day. And that's why we feel it is essential to support public policies aimed at making this dysfunction, that imbalance, every day, smaller and that women can be fully integrated into the labour market. Because, if not, we meet with part-time days, with half-days, with the so-called salary divide, with the so-called gender gap, which in the end often has a source in that field. The Emega Female Entrepreneurship program too. This year 2022 is worth 4.2 million euros, and now in 2021 it's been twenty-five years since this program started. Right now, today we also have to speak of a legislative text, of what the President of the Board has just spoken of, which started his public exhibition process, which is a new German law of equality of women and men, which in March begins the pre-public consultation period. He asked the socialist spokesman in his previous intervention if that law would solve the problems. Well, often laws don't solve all the problems, but they do help. And what is true is that we are in the middle of the 21st century, with very different needs than we had years ago; I'm not talking about many years ago, for example, before 2020, before the pandemic, with which telework evolved, for example. Well, I think it's important to regulate telework. This law will do it. Because the Government of Spain, which was the one who had to regulate telework, is entangled in other things, is entangled in ideological issues in the matter of equality, with three bills of law at the Congress of Deputies on Gender Ideology, whether it's Queer or not it's Queer, and while they're messing with it here in Galicia we're dealing with the important thing and we're drafting laws to solve problems and to facilitate women's lives. [[Applause]] This law, this legal text, includes measures to strengthen gender equality in the field of digitisation, with the aim of promoting training in digital skills — fundamental — to provide protection for women against gender-based attacks through technology. We've had a lot of discussion on this matter in this chamber. Yesterday we were talking about the subject of minors. In November we adopted a bill to incorporate digital violence as gender-based violence. Promote municipal programs to create urban spaces free of violence and sexual harassment. There are more and more complaints in this area. For the law also promotes the creation of safe pedestrian paths, clear signs, stopped at demand for urban transport, etc. Contribute to the defence of rights and the visibility of women who suffer multiple discrimination. To introduce the idea of working well-being in companies, linked to conciliation policies. Maternity replacement. Prevention of occupational risks. Telework and social and business responsibility. These are all fundamental questions and the ones which we have discussed in this Parliament — I insist — on different occasions. So I think Galicia deserves a law adapted to the 21st century and no one should be surprised when we say that Galicia is a pioneer in legislating these things. Then when we say, Galicia is a pioneer, oh!, they always say she's a pioneer. Yes, once again, we are going to be pioneers on fundamental issues that advance towards equality. I believe that this initiative has sufficient reasons to be supported by the rest of the groups, seven points in those areas that I have just described, and which I think are fundamental to moving forward towards real equality. I'm waiting for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I have to start by thanking this LNP if it had delayed us to allow us to be on the streets yesterday claiming that not celebrating, claiming justice, demanding equality. Feminism is militancy, feminism is fighting, and where our comrades can't go out on the streets claiming their rights they must be able to hear our screams forever or see how the streets of the cities and villages are housed. We do it for ourselves, we leave March 8 on the streets, but we also do it for them. Of course, there's also an important question: feminism must be waged every day. But it is true that there must be March 8th. Let's not be mistaken, we have recent examples in our own history, we can't get our guard down and we must continue to leave that day. Just yesterday, along the compostal streets, I had a reminder, for the next time we're being, for those millions -- because someone yesterday was talking about hundreds of thousands; no, unfortunately they're going to be millions -- of Ukrainian women whose delusions of the greatness of a misoxin tyrant have just stolen their lives forever. Again, women, with their broken families, broken by force, take on the burden of care, while they, greedy, are going to fight hard in an incomprehensible conflict — and they apologize for the comment — that I think I am sick of excessive testosterone. Finally, we are already going to this LNP, discussing this initiative, in addition to this privileged position. I don't know if you know that interview that Angel Barceló gave to another woman, Olena, a Ukrainian woman, who asked her what her life was like before, and she broke down crying and said, "Before my life was wonderful, but I didn't know it." Well, from this place, place and privileged place where we are now, it's about discussing and talking about equality. We've already had three PNLs, last night's ones, in this matter. One, which claimed women's fair rights at home, paid or not; another that demanded effective employment measures for equality between women and men; and a third to request a gender equality observatory in the fisheries sector. We hope that the majority group today will vote in favour of these three initiatives, because they are all logical initiatives that follow real, close and current reports on the situation of women's inequality. [[Applause]] And, of course, today comes this fourth, of the People's Party, which at seven points draws a panorama of course nothing encouraging to the Greek woman. Because, of course, it talks about aid to women in situations of vulnerability or at risk of social exclusion, it talks about resources directed at older women and women with disabilities, about the perspective of gender in environmental policies and land management, about women in the field of culture, about women in the field of sport, about the treatment or commitment of the media to equality. Sure, you'll say, after what I've just said, where's the picture not encouraging? Well, without pretending to be torturer or demagogy, what I invite you here is that they do an exercise and replace the exposure in those seven points with the word "woman" with "man" and when we're talking about sexism they replace in our imaginary that woman's body cosified by a man body; to see if they can be able to do this exercise. No, the result doesn't. And this is the evidence of what I'm saying that the panorama is nothing encouraging. The question is, today we are very surprised to see this People's Party initiative. Because, of course, the simple formulation of these seven points really counts is of evas or needs that occur in known spaces, close to and common to all of us, such as culture, work, sport or the media; areas where if there could have been progress at this time, in which as a country we could have distinguished ourselves from other territories, but not. So, we've found that the party that supports the German Government is assuming on this initiative not that much remains to be done, no, but that there's a lot left to be done. And I confess that it makes us very uneasy to think that they know the situation of women in culture in our country, the relationship we have with sport, as we are incorporated into sport, our social exclusion, the difficulty of women in situations of vulnerability or increasing sexism in the media, and they present, just March 8, Women's Day, an initiative that does not concretely anything, that is full of vagueities and that actually results — almost euphemistically. I also warn you that in the defence the proponent spoke absolutely nothing of this initiative today, said other things, but not this one. Of course, using terms like "promoting", "consolidating", "strengthening", "supporting" or "strengthening" without proposing a single measure, or a single concrete measure in an initiative under discussion on March 8 is certainly worrying to us. Because it seems more like what they are doing — and we think it is right — is an amendment to the whole government that you yourselves support. And since we — as much as we want — cannot make an amendment to the whole, and by trying to add something of content — it was not easy, given the little realization of these measures, I want to explain the meaning of our amendment and make some other point. It's also true, as I say, that not everything will be negative. If we applaud that point, that will introduce the gender perspective into environmental policies, also in the management of the territory. It's necessary, in addition, that many advanced governments are already making. But the buts that we want to highlight today are going to be central to three of these seven points, because if the others are trying to reinforce things that already exist, and so on, these three since then the role of the Government is not the whole specimen they ought to be. On the role of women in culture, for example, and confronting the programs and incentives that exist since the State Government and in other autonomous communities, I have to tell them that their role, that of the Greek Government, is quite clearly improved. What needs to be done here is much more than to support, as they say on that initiative, "support." It's also much more than organizing days about women and culture, and about the role of women in culture, which we don't discuss at all. What we have to do is encourage and discriminate positively. That's what we have to do. And as we think that's what we're going to do, we're going to do what we're going to be doing with specific annual help lines. And we're at point 5, which I don't know if, ladies and gentlemen, they know this point 5, but that's what it has to do with the media, and of course, here this would lead to a debate about a single initiative or perhaps even a parliamentary monographic session. On that point 5, about the promotion of good practices and the involvement of the media in the transmission of content that promotes equality, of course, there would have to be a lot of punctuation, as I say; it is a shame of time! because, of course, what is happening with our public media, with the constant failure to comply with that good practice of the initiative, and the silence of the Government of Greece and the People's Party, is at least indecent. That you bring here today is at least indecent. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, Mrs Prado, yes, because we do not listen to any members of the People's Party or Government, nor to this parliamentary group, to denounce the event, for example, in the Land Rober programme, for example. [[Murmurs.]] And not only because we could bring here many more examples of the most recalcitrant machism and the reproduction of stereotypes, which is absolutely regrettable. Unfortunately, we have many more examples that we will deal with this month in the CRTVG Control Committee, because it is not up to us here, but, of course, we do not give you the credit that you dare present here. We know they're hiding that CRTVG, our public media, is an independent entity, that you have nothing to do with it. But the reality is that CRTVG has more than 90% of public funding. That's why we expected greater involvement. So we amend by proposing to add a greater commitment to our media, that is, that the Galician Union be — I would say more diligent — diligent, because it is not, when it comes to demanding from CRTVG a scrupulously compliance with the promotion of equality and non-sexism. About point 6, about awareness campaigns, I'd also like to make a point. There'd be a lot to say. You welcome these campaigns so necessary, but please come already, because we have been three years — I believe — waiting for campaigns and they do not arrive. And if possible, what we ask them to do is to focus on men, because women already know well, really, the frames we move in; to see if we also start to focus a little on these campaigns on men. Finally, we propose — and we have finished — to add a new point 8, which at the bottom has to do with this whole GNP. What we propose is that the German Government present in Parliament, before the end of this session, an assessment report on this seventh Strategic Plan of Galicia for Equal Opportunities. I'm surprised Mr. Feijóo says that next month they're going to approve the eighth plan, because they've already made the balance of the seventh. Well, it seems to us very well that they've made a balance of the seventh. To us the word "balance" gives us a certain amount of restlessness. We understand that it was much better to make an evaluation report, and that's why we think what they have to do is to present this rigorous evaluation report. Because everything, absolutely everything we are dealing with here today on this initiative must, of course, be reflected in that new plan. Because, of course, if we don't know the degree of execution of those measures and we don't know the impact that this seventh plan had either, what we fear is that you here next year and next year, and all the next ones who come, will again present exactly this same initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u48	I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, really wanted to teach you some pictures, because, of course, all I have to say about what the president of the board said before is that Mr. Putin's friends, of course, are not in the corner of the Galician Nationalist Block; they are in their own. [[Mrs. González Albert shows some pictures.]] [[Applause]] And in politics it's not all worth, it's not all, really, and there are limits that need not be exceeded, and using the dead, the wars, the thousands and thousands of refugees who are running away from their homes for fear of war is a limit that cannot be passed on, and that's also feminism. [[Applause]] And I don't know who, with his omnipotent finger, will leave in that saddle Mr. Fexóo when he implements his resignation as President of the Board, but, of course, it will be very difficult to overcome the indignity of what we hear here this morning. [[Applause]] In any case, we've come to talk about women's rights, because we believe that women deserve and we want, therefore, all rights, and we want them already. And this is the leitmotiv that led the Galician Nationalist Block campaign to this 8th of March, and that sums up our position very well on this LNP. I'm not going to talk about the more than a hundred years of feminist struggle that has been focused on as a reference date this March 8 for women's equal rights claim and struggle for women's rights, thanks to what was a job and it's an untiring work of the feminist movement. This day, as I say, was a call for attention not to lose reference to the pending and unapproachable issues of the feminist agenda. And I, in that sense, from the BNG I also want to recognize first and foremost the fundamental work that this country does throughout the year the self-organized Greek feminism to get out of its immobility — and, in addition, in this NRP we see it well — a government often turned to being proactive and efficient in matters of equality. And this year more than ever, because we've seen an economic and social situation that is derived from the hideous pandemic, to which a situation of already precarious and previous inequality is added, in addition, by the decisions made since the financial crisis in 2008 and which falls in the singular and most important way in the Greek women. Mr. Fexóo another of the things he said before was that the data they gave him were invented, in this case the spokesman of the Socialist Party. According to the last report by the Galego Economic Forum — not a source of the BNG — of December 2021, what is already a perceived reality, which does not need to be said here by a BNG Member. The biggest impact of the crisis was, of course, on women. Seventy-five percent of the part-time unemployed in our country in the last quarter of last year were women, time employment increases more among women and we also have a higher rate of temporality. In addition, it must be remembered that, in spite of all these declarations of intent, of these major announcements, the illegal — because it is illegal — wage divide remains a reality in our country and exceeds EUR 4,000 per year. To this situation of labour inequality, which will also be aggravated by the failure to fulfil the promise of a derogation from labour reform by the Central Government, made up of the Socialist Party and Podemos, is summed up by the inequality derived from the lack of public services, which feeds an economy often plunged into which thousands of women work without recognition and without dignified conditions. And how do we bring this question to Galicia? Here we are very accustomed -- and this initiative, I repeat, is a huge demonstration of this, and the Socialist Party's companion also made reference -- to adopting propaganda plans that have no budget, that do not have a proper follow-up and that do not have a balance of objectives achieved. It has also been seen, even as they violate their own law, as it shows the fact that they have not even promoted the corresponding equality plan in the field of public service. We saw here yesterday a tremendous debate on some issues, for example, that they refuse to comply with the Equality Act and to draw up a statistic showing the value for the invisible domestic domestic economy that makes millions of Galicians and shows real inequality in the distribution of time in homes. But the unfulfilled promises are obviously many more. For example, in March 2019, the BNG is pushing an agreement in this parliament, in this chamber, to push the equality clauses, which you continue unimpeded. One more: BNG has also been insisting on the adoption of a new equality law for years. Now we have just seen an announcement that it replaces the law of 2004, which does not adapt at all to the reality of the twenty-first century, which also meets the demands of the feminist movement, specifically taking into account, for example, the promotion of co-responsibility. You announced November 25th, you also took advantage of that date to promise that reform that you just promised President Feijóo again. Well, we'll be waiting for this new announcement. And he used to talk about propagandistic plans and ads to those who used to us, and you, Mrs. Prado, make this initiative a good summary of much of it. It does not speak of the Angeles Albariño Law, which was unanimously approved by this chamber the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, which is intended to guarantee the real equality of women and men in the university field of research, which is a law that is not developing in all its potential; we, for example, have the proposal to draw up a guide that guides, which guarantees its application in public and private calls. He spoke of the Strategic Plan for Equality, Conciliation Plans and Co-responsibility and Actions; by the way, often the actions of conciliation in rural areas consist of reducing or directly closing public services to transfer them with public money to private companies as well. Digital capacity enhancement programs for rural women. This is a fantastic, very interesting measure. The rural women shut us to schools, teach us lessons, kill our health centers and our comarcas hospitals with enthusiasm. And here we can also see another example of how the feminist struggle, for example in the case of Verín, managed to reverse the situation of closure of the delivery room, after the absolutely demental closure carried out by the Government of the People's Party. There too were the women, the feminists of this country, who managed to reverse that situation. [[Applause]] They also leave us incommunicado and without alternatives to the future to continue living in rural areas; but that, in return, gives us new technologies, of which we can also talk a lot and tend and debate on what conditions these new technologies give us. Integrated employment programs, Women's 22, General Relevance, I'm Executive, Galicia employs, Emega, Plan employs women... all of these plans are mentioned by you at your initiative. I've counted up to eleven programs and actions that I just mentioned. And I wonder, or since the BNG we've been wondering, what is the result of the application of all these plans, what is the result, what is the evaluation that is being made of the results of these plans. Do you have an evaluation of your results? Because they can continue to advertise and approve ad infinitum plans, sell them in the press again and again, with different names, without ever realizing what the objective results are or whether they are achieved. Because the real results of the policies of the Galician Union, of the twelve, almost thirteen years of consecutive rule by Mr Feijóo, are the ones that give the data, and I am outraged by the fact that the President of the Union comes here to invent data that the political parties have drawn. In this case, I'm going to say where I got this data that I'm going to give right now: from sources like INE, IGE, EPA and Tax Agency. All these sources say, among other things, that, with regard to 2019, 73.4 of the job lost in Galicia was among women. That the rate of female temporality rose to 26.8%. That almost 50% of women, almost 50%, 43 %, of contracts signed by women during last year had a duration of less than one month. That 76.7% of the part-time jobs, as I said at the outset, in our country are performed by women. More than 100,000 women, 113,805 specifically, last year, employees in Galicia had incomes below 3,000 euros gross throughout the year; 100,000 women entered for work less than 3,000 euros gross throughout the year. The salary divide was 19%, and Feijóo here boasts that we weren't the last, that there are six under us. For two and a half months a year, the Greek women have been working for free for this payroll. The pension gap is much larger, reaching 34,5 %, only beyond the Extreme. So I repeat to you that this data is official data and this is the result of the plans. So this initiative reflects conformity with the outcome of policies. Because reality is the result of policies. Because we can announce plans for everyone we want, but then we have to contrast the reality that results have those plans. And this data is demolition for our country, it's tremendous. [[Applause]] They can't be happy, they can't comply with what they say here. It is that they cry out conformism everywhere on this initiative, even when they are proud to devote in the budgets this year 2022 18 million euros to the policies of fighting against male violence. We in the BNG understand that it is not equality, there can be no equality of any kind if there is violence, and we must be very ambitious in this matter. And our proposal is always that 1% of Galician board budget, which is 115 million euros, to work, to policies to combat violence against women. Because anyone who hears it would think we're in the worlds of Yupi. [[Applause]] I don't know if younger people understand the reference, but Yupi's worlds were a childish program that they gave when I was little in which everyone was very happy. So, the proposals are conformists — I repeat —. Infinitives without budget, no chronogram, no method of validation of results, no error correction. Of course, you can't say "no" to anything they say, but all they do is put back infinitives. And you talked about the subsidies that would be used for different activities. Grant policy is not enough. And the Public Service does reach everywhere, reaches where the Government wants to arrive, and goes to public money where the Government wants it to come. What is needed is to have political will so that the public administration can reach where it has to go. [[Applause]] We tabled an amendment to this initiative to claim what is law, which is to comply with Law 2/2007, on women's equal work. Comrade Olalla Rodil — I believe that a year ago, I think it was March last year — took this issue to the Commission, so that the work of the first Equality Plan, which will have to be referred to this Chamber, would be completed. We said that before the end of this session period, because it was announced here in 2019, it was announced last year, that it was going to be in 2019 — in 2020 no longer, because there was a pandemic, last year it was worth it, and here we are, in March 2022. To finish now, Mr. President, I want to make a reflection on all this, because this PNL I think is a perfect example of the policy of window display, propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u50	...that's been making the People's Party these twelve years. What we ask of them, what we demand, is that they comply with at least their legal obligations and leave these thirteen years of non-compliance with equality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u51	Thank you, Mrs. González Albert. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. González, look, for a lot of pictures you're taking here, you won't cover up the shame of your group not condemning the war, not condemning this terrible war, no palliatives, no nuances, no hot cloths. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Not to war. It's not up to you to make a Soviet leader or an ultra-right leader, because you have a Soviet soul; that's your problem; they have a Soviet soul, lords. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And surely, surely, for you, I'm sure that for you, China is governed by the ultra-right, Cuba is a paradise of fundamental rights, in Korea we are in full democracy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is your story, but as always, as always, the nationalists rewriting the story, gentlemen, rewriting the story. [[Applause]] Look, this week a fellow of ours reminded us of a phrase from Unamuno, who said... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u53	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u54	Democracy is to listen to what he says, I didn't interrupt them. They won't shut up. They won't shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u55	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u56	This week a fellow of ours remembered a phrase from Unamuno, who said: With nationalists we never know what will happen in the past. Well, there we are, gentlemen, there we are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] After the nationalist apocalypse, you, after what happened at the last plenary session, gentlemen, are disabled to talk about equality. In the face of an initiative of sexual abuse to minors, this group introduced an amendment that said: "To combat the scourge of child sexual abuse, to deepen research into all cases, whatever the context in which they were given, and to support people who suffered or suffered in all areas, without exception." [[Murmurs.]] You didn't accept that amendment, because you want to make politics with child sexual abuse, and that, ladies and gentlemen, brought them to the full past. [[Applause]] This group supported the investigation of sexual abuse of minors in the Church and you did not accept this amendment to investigate all sexual abuse, ladies and gentlemen. That's his story. And they have to take her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u57	Quiet. Mr. Rivas, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u58	...in their backs. Mrs. Díaz, you say it's amazing and you haven't tabled a whole amendment. I could introduce her. What's the matter is you didn't introduce her why? Because they have no ideas. What is your great initiative for the 8-M plenary? So ask for a women's equality observatory in the fisheries sector. Why? Because last week we had a non-permanent equality commission and there was a person who came to represent the associative sector, the fisheries sector, ask for it and you, usurping the role of the non-permanent commission, because these issues are later set out in conclusions, in recommendations in the dictatorship... yes, in questions... No, your group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, of course, as you're all separated there, just like you're not, you're your partner, I don't care. Your group has presented this great initiative. And you say it's indecent about TV. Look, do you know it's indecent? Indecent is that the minister of equality goes to the program Save me Deluxe defending Rocitito because she's a lady who says there are three or four or five courts who didn't recognize him as a victim of gender violence. He went live to prime time to minister of equality. That's disgusting. And your president, Mr. Sánchez, called... No, of course it's a great level, it's a slope, that's the level of the Government of Spain, that Mr. Pedro Sánchez is worried about having a coffee with Rocitito. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] That's the level in the Government of Spain, gentlemen. And why don't you come and give us lessons on how TV is done when you use television to make politics and enter the Deluxe Save me, you, gentlemen, have very little to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u59	A little rest, please. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u60	Well, about the... of course, if you don't let me talk, I understand you don't like it. [[Murmurs.]] No, of course, I'm interrupted. [[Murmurs.]] When you spoke, this group was very quiet, but of course, its democracy, how do you understand democracy? To try to keep quiet to those who don't like, to tell them the truth That's reality, ladies and gentlemen, that's reality. [[Applause]] Look, on the amendments, on the amendments, Mr President. Look, about the amendment of the Socialist Party, the only one who presented, at point 8, something concrete, because the rest says he didn't like our initiative at all, but he didn't do anything at all. Well, point 8 if we're going to accept it as an addition; you do it: we're going to accept it as an addition, but not the rest, because look, you were talking about the public service. I have data here from women in the civil service at level 30, which is the highest level. So look, in the Presidency: 9 men, 1 woman; Vice-Presidentship First: 12 men, 22 women; Vice-Presidentship Second: 5 men, 6 women; Farm: 26 men, 34 women; Environment: 8 men, 14 women; Infrastructure and Mobility: 13 men and 6 women; Councillorship of Culture: 4 men, 15 women, Mrs. Díaz, 15 women, you were so concerned about what women's data were in the field of culture; and Health: 7 men, 19 women. Look, I think the data are relevant enough to prove that the equality policies that are implementing the Galician Union are going along the right path and you have painted here an apocalypse that doesn't exist, and that's why they're so disconnected from the Galician society, and that's why you're where they are and we are where we are, because you're not connected to the Galician society, because the Galician society is not stupid and, by many lies that contain it, as much as they twist the data, as much as they twist the figures, in no case are going to fool them, because the Galician and the Galician society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u62	...they're smart people, and that's why, gentlemen, they don't believe their lies. # Nothing else and thank you so much #
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u63	Thank you. Do you accept the Block Amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u64	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u65	Not that of the Block. Thank you. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Well, after the debates on non-law proposals have been completed, we proceed to the vote on them, and we begin by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, which I think has led Mrs Rosaly - have you, yes? - on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to modernise and humanize the points of family meeting. He doesn't accept amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the Galician Nationalist Block, and I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u66	Give a voice to the honourable Member's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u67	Look, in front of the amendment of the Socialist Party, we presented a compromise text as an addendum, which has been rejected. So we don't... do you accept? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, thank you. Okay, then yes. Now I'm going to read the transaction text that will be added to our proposal, of the Socialist Party, and the same as the transaction text that BNG accepted. With which there is quite consensus on this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u68	So what is there: a single transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u70	Yeah, okay, so read the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u71	"Strengthening the protocol that enables risk assessment at family meeting points to face situations of male violence, as well as design channels of interinstitutional communication and collaboration that guarantee the protection of children and their mothers with the aim of unifying and harmonizing intervention criteria, and initiate the procedures, during this year 2022, to expand the Network of Family Meeting Points in the four provinces of Greece". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u72	Thank you. We vote for that transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to modernise and humanize the points of family meeting The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u73	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the work of home and care. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. [[Mrs. Pérez López asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? Yeah, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mrs. Pérez's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u74	Good morning, thank you. We wanted to vote for points and separate point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u75	Split Point 3. Do you accept it? He doesn't accept it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the work of home and care The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u76	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonzo. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Ramon Fernández Alfonzo and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to officially declare March 10 as Work Class Day Galaga The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 56. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u77	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Ms Maria del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta. Do you accept the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group? You don't accept it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and three other Members, on the actions to be taken in Galicia regarding employment measures to achieve equality between men and women The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u78	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Otero. I don't know if you've accepted the amendment. I do not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions that must lead to the Galician Union to create an observatory of gender equality in the fisheries sector The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u79	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado. There is a proposal which is accepted as adding point 8 of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote on this proposal. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and sixteen other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in respect of aid programmes for the inclusion of women in a situation of vulnerability and/or at risk of social exclusion The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u80	And now I wanted to comment with all of you that there's an agreement from the parliamentary groups to focus on the staircase, on the front door. It's a minute's silence regarding the invasion of Ukraine. So it was agreed with all the groups. It was at twelve but we're still here for some time, I don't know if we can do it at twelve minus four. Twelve minus a room? [[Pause.]] Well, that's going to be a little mess. [[Assentment.]] Twelve o'clock. And we resumed the subject with the interpellations on our way back. So, at least 12 o'clock, we focused on the front door of Parliament. We are currently suspending the session. The session is temporarily suspended at eleven and thirty-two minutes and resumed at eleven and fifty-three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u81	Let's resume the agenda with the fourth point, interpellations. Da Maria Monserrat Prado Cores and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of integral care for women's health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u82	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning. I am sorry that Mrs Prado del Río is not here now — Prado Colours is in the rostrum. I suppose he'll be looking for BNG in the concentration where we just manifested ourselves in favour of the Ukrainian people and against the invasion; I suppose he wouldn't see BNG out there, right? [[Applause]] I used to say a moment ago to Mrs. Prado del Río that the truths hurt. Yes, indeed, they hurt the truths of having pictures like this. Yesterday in Poland to Salvini, Italian Salvini, the people used to hide him by calling him a fool and a clown for having pictures like these and then going there to get the outrage. [[Mrs. Prado Colors shows some pictures.]] Because you have to have some decency, you have to have some decency on the part of the People's Party of having pictures like this and accusing others of not doing what we really are doing. And the BNG says high and clear "no" to the war, "no" to the invasion, "no" to any invasion, "no" to all wars, "no" to the invasion of Iraq, Yemen, Palestine, Sahara, with all clarity and continuance. [[Applause]] We are not selective in condemning the suffering of the people, we are not selective in seeing the pain, but we are against imperialism, NATO, for all the pain it has caused, just as we are against the invasion of Ukraine; so high and so clear. [[Applause]] Counselor, very good morning. Yesterday was March 8, a date that we women have become a date of reference, of struggle, of claim, of necessity, of rights. The BNG again went out to the street yesterday with thousands of women claiming that we want all rights and we want them already. We want all rights, we want them already, and also those rights are included in the rights to quality health care. And that's why we want to ask you today, asking if you think that the Greek women have comprehensive and quality health care, what is your assessment of existing gender issues and, above all, what you've done and what you're going to do to eliminate these more than obvious gender issues in our country's public health, also in private, of course. Women and men have not only biological differences, not only do we differ from the genitals, but we are sick differently, we have different symptoms, we have different ways of feeling pain, we have different ways of metabolising drugs, in immune responses, we have different pathologies, and, despite this increasingly evidenced reality, we are being treated with homogeneous medical protocols, a consequence of a health system based on a male and Androcentric model. And the question of gender often makes people think that diseases are universal, when they're not, and those gender issues exist in research, training, diagnosis, which soon culminates in a weak therapeutic approach. That's why in the BNG we claim the gender look in women's disease and the need for differentiated treatment, because we consider it essential to change the look, change the optics, we consider it necessary to put on lilac glasses to have a gender vision and change a model of health that is unequal with women, to change that perspective with which women's health care is observed to see reality and, above all, all this to soon act, to act and change things. And we demand that gender look, for example, in research. The subject that is investigated is mostly the man and the one who investigates were always mostly men. Historically it was the men who considered themselves as a model and the results of the investigations were essentially according to a man of adult age, at work age, of average weight and height and then that research was translated to women as if the effects and results were exactly the same. 70% of biomedical research does not publish results by sex, 30% of health research nor, and with the pandemic of covid-19, this situation was maintained. Although it is no longer in the 19th and 20th centuries, despite the fact that there is more than clear scientific evidence than drugs, vaccines act differently in men and women, this pattern has continued to be maintained. There are studies, for example, of a Danish who says that only 40% of scientific research around the vault had analyzed the gender variable, no one evaluated sex as a possible modifying effect of the effects of treatments, the fourth part included twice as many men as women. Where women were included, they asked about fever, cough, discomfort, headache, but not about menstruation. And from that approach are the results, and the results are that there are so many women who are reporting that they have consequences after having vaccinated against the copper in disarguments in their menstruation and that 74% of the official reported adverse reactions are done by women. That's why one of the first questions we ask you is whether you think that women's health is represented at the same level in scientific research, which is the percentage of clinical trials involving women in Galicia and what you're doing to change this situation and this pattern. We also demand the look of gender in the training that professionals receive. It's alarming to see how the plans of studies do not practically contemplate the look of genre. He denounced a specialist these days that they spend a couple of hours in the medical career in the best case of menstruation. This situation cannot be allowed, because this deficit in research and training follows that there is then a deficit in clinical practice. That's why we also demand that gender perspective in clinical practice. Invisible women in scientific studies and training soon result, for example, infradiagnosis or overdiagnosis, that we present different symptoms in the face of certain diseases that are not understood as such. And a paradigmatic example, of the ones most fortunately studied, are cardiovascular diseases, where the most known pattern of how a myocardial infarction is manifested, for example, pain in the chest, loss of strength in the arm, and so on, when women hardly ever manifest themselves in that way. What is the consequence? That women get late to ask for medical help because they don't identify that they're suffering from a heart attack, that many professionals don't identify the symptoms that they have like an infarction and therefore more risks of ending up in a fatal outcome. Let's put this example, but we could put a lot more. Or we can put the opposite case, which is overdiagnosis, for example in mental illness. Faced with the same symptomatology as headache, tiredness, discomfort, a woman is more likely to leave the consultation with some type of anxiolytic, when a man has all the possibilities to leave the consultation with diagnostic tests or to have some type of specialized consultation. And then 85% of psychopharmaceuticals are administered to women. These are day to day issues, day to day. We also ask for the look of gender for those pharmacological patterns that are established according to that male pattern and that make the effects on women because they are in many demolition cases. For example, anticoagulants, which have a lot more side effects on men than on women. Or that even the technology to detect myocardial infarctions is adapted to the symptoms of men and not women. We could be here all morning listing questions where these gender issues in health are making even more mortality on many women's issues, because women end up living more but by elements that aren't exactly the quality of life; we live more but with worse quality of life, with worse health care. We also demand the look of gender in issues such as disease in women or mostly in women, such as endometriosis, such as fibromyalxia, where there is still an average of eight to ten years to diagnose a woman from any of these pathologies, when in the case of endometriosis we are talking about a prevalence of 10% of the population, and this is underdiagnosed; we are talking about over sixty thousand women. And despite the adoption of initiatives in this parliament calling for action, they still do virtually nothing on that issue. Or in the case of fibromyalxia. That's why we also want to ask you if it seems reasonable to you that a woman aged eight or ten late in being diagnosed with pathologies that should have been done in the first consultation. And we also demand the look of gender in traditionally women's health issues, such as reproductive health care, not so much sex. There's tremendous deficits, there's a shortage of matrons, we're in line with matrons in relation to the Spanish state. Today there was information in the papers where in the mid-term Vigo health area to get a family planning appointment is for January 2023, Counsellor, January 2023. We can talk about waiting lists for assisted fertility treatments, that is, many other issues that aren't even considered traditionally women's health there. So today, we want you, Counsellor, to answer us what are the actions of the Galician Union, which are being made so that the waiting lists, so that women's health care, so that these gender issues in all areas — research, training, clinical practice, pharmacology — are detected and, above all, corrected. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u85	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Starting at the beginning of your intervention, Mrs. Prado, what I ask of the Block is that you are fighting the Western bloc against occupation in this case, because it is precisely these countries, those of the Western bloc, the ones that are most and strongest fighting and defending the interests of women and their rights and equality. [[Applause]] Regarding the question you raised, remember that yesterday we celebrated Women's International Day and, for the first time, we did it from the Health Council with a Plan of Equality between Women and Men in the Galician Health Service for the period 2021-2024. This is a differential fact that marks the commitment of this government to achieve real equality in the field of health, both as regards professionals working in the Galician Health Service and, of course, in the care system. A plan that has been adopted and developed with the support and collaboration of the trade union organisations present at the sectoral table, including the Glaga Inter-union Confederation, Working Committees, the Independent Trade Union of Officials, the Nursing Union and the General Workers Union. The development of this plan began in 2019, with the establishment of the Equality Commission, and was approved last June of 2021. It collects fifty-nine measures, grouped around six axes: access to public employment and the provision of squares; conditions of work and vocational promotion; training, information and awareness—what I shall talk about later—; working time, co-responsibility and measures for reconciling personal, family and labour life; attention to special situations of protection such as gender violence, sexual harassment, harassment or discrimination on the basis of sex or sexual orientation or identity; or cross-cutting measures to integrate the principle of equality into the organization. Finally, we want to include the gender perspective throughout the health system, which is also integrated into most of it, as you know, by women; in this case we're talking about 80 percent of the staff in the Galician Health Service being women. As you see, we have an important work base that will also be monitored to ensure its compliance, in this case in the workplace, and we will continue to move forward to also achieve non-generic health care. That's why we've been working on one side for years, and as it was before, in the formation in this case of our professionals, which will now be strengthened by the implementation of this plan. Thus, the Technical Committee on Equality agreed, among other measures, to introduce the gender perspective in training activities, to take care of such aspects as images in the development of telematics courses, avoiding gender stereotypes or sexist images, and to develop a framework of good practices available to trainers and teacher programmers for the development of the content of this training. This is about the training that is planned from here on, but we've been working on equal training for years. Thus, two courses are scheduled annually, one on detecting gender-based violence and how to act in the field of health care, and one on health care for all staff, in this case on gender equality and violence. In total, almost twenty-eight thousand workers, of the forty-four thousand workers who have Sergas, twenty-eight thousand, more than half, are already taking part in the courses until now and the registration is already open for the course of the year 2022. In the area of care, in order to appreciate the role of women, only some data should be transferred, as is the case with surgical interventions, which in recent years from 2018 to 2021 reflect a greater weight of women with more than sixteen thousand interventions more than in the case of men. This is logically the result of the demographic evolution of our community, where life expectancy increases, being significantly higher in the case of women. We therefore want to meet the specific needs of women not only in the xynecological or obstetric field, but also in the relative pathologies that should be treated differently, and, of course, in the attention to chronicity. [[Applause]] As for xynecological health, we must highlight the attention given to endometriosis in Galicia. We created specific consultations in six of the seven health areas, in which full attention is paid to those women with suspicion or an endometriosis diagnosis. So, for example, in the health area of Ourense, last year around four hundred women were treated with this pathology or, in the health area of Ferrol, about 200. Also, in the last two years, twenty-two surgical interventions and two hundred and fifty women have undergone an entry process with this diagnosis. In addition, we carry out specific training on this pathology directed to professionals and which is already underway by this year 2022. I want to transfer this government's commitment to the care of women who suffer from this disease and that is seen by the incorporation of the surgical robots Da Vinci, in which we invest more than 20 million euros and which we incorporate in all health areas, as you well know. Well, this robot, among other pathologies, has already allowed us to initiate surgical interventions in patients with endometriosis, enabling surgeons much more precise and less invasive, with better recovery for these patients. In this area of care we should continue to work on introducing the perspective of gender in pathologies such as cardiovasculars, work already started in some health area and which has a specific consultation; or EPOC, with an important prevalence in female gender but with clinically and socially differentiated factors. For this reason, we must continue to raise the awareness of professionals in order to improve early diagnoses that prevent the development of a more insidious disease. Even so, the next development of the integrated care process for EPOC will introduce the gender perspective to continue to improve the attention of women who present this pathology, historically linked to man, but which, for example, seriously affects women, which has already been studied in our autonomous community. In the course of research, you know that this parliament is a pioneer in the adoption of a law that guarantees equality between men and women in the scientific field. Well, in Galicia we have taken an important step, since the scientific leadership of two of the three health research institutes is now performed by women. At the national level, of the thirty-three institutes, seven are women; in Galicia, two in three. This is about the three o'clock address. In addition, add that with regard to the management of the three biomedical research foundations in Galicia, as you know, are occupied by women. Regarding the test figures, there is no accurate statistics for the participation of men and women in clinical trials in aggregate form. However, I can provide you with some data. In Galicia during 2017-2021 1,099 clinical trials were authorised. Well, from these, directed exclusively to men, they were authorized 29; directed exclusively to women, a total of 54. However, it should be clear that all tests are subject to a process of review and authorisation, which are regulated at European level, requiring a favourable opinion from the Ethics Committee. The evaluation is carried out by focusing on methodological, ethical and legal aspects, valuing the scientific-ethical relevance of whether or not to include one or other population according to the characteristics of the pathology to be studied. For this reason, in most trials, gender differentiation cannot be included in the recruitment of patients, as it might not be accepted. In spite of this, I think it is important to emphasize that in the exclusive genre, as I have just given in the data, that of women, many related to treatments or techniques associated with breast cancer, cervix cancer (uterine cell), but also urinary incontinence or osteoporosis. Precisely, speaking of cancer, we continue with breast cancer that started in 1992 and has therefore been developing for 30 years, with a global participation rate in the 79% programme in 2020, despite the pandemic by chance, and the programme has exceeded European standards of quality, reaching 80.81 % of participation in that year 2020. To continue with this programme, with the highest quality criteria this year, we will invest €1.2 million in the renewal of four mammography teams for this purpose. As part of the behaviors of the counsellor that you are developing in the early detection of these diseases, among which is breast cancer, there is also colon control or endocrine disease in neonates, we have recently announced the extension of cervical cancer, up to now pilotly implanted in the health area of Lugo, to the areas of Ferrol and Pontevedra, to then extend it to the entire autonomous community. In the pilot program, of the 2,100 women invited, 1,550 participated, that is, 60%. Percentages of participation varied according to the three borrowed strategies, the most numerous being, about 68%, in the case of women who could choose between autonomously perform sampling or through citation with their mistress. The study detected the human papilloma virus in 5.2% of the women who were treated, and in 15% of them some type of premarital injury, which were derived from the relevant consultation. That's the data that leads us, as I said, to expand the deer and continue working in order to improve the health of our women. In the field of primary education, we must continue to move forward in the measures implemented so far, continuing the work we have been doing so far with these 14 recently approved local health plans, since one of the objectives set is Community work and attention to chronicity, which, as it was progressing, affects women to a large extent. [[Applause]] And in the field of mental health, there is a greater prevalence in certain diseases of women, but still we must work to be treated in the same way as men, because, in addition, women with mental health problems may suffer discrimination on several issues. On the one hand, the social rejection that causes disability, resulting from mental illness, also stigma because of suffering and discrimination itself because of being a woman and also the inequalities that affect women especially in rural areas. For this reason, in the Galician Mental Health Plan 2020-2024, one of the main objectives is to improve mental health care in women, especially in women victims of gender violence, creating specific programs for their attention and improving coordination with care devices for victims of gender violence. We continue to move forward to provide the best comprehensive assistance to women, to establish new protocols, to improve infrastructure, to address assistance with a gender perspective and also to implement measures to move forward towards a more equal health system, so that both women who work in it and those who care as patients enjoy full equality. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u86	Thank you, Counselor. They're with us now and we greet the 5th and 6th primary students from downtown San Ramón, Moeche, Coruña. The professor, whom we greet, is also with them. Welcome to Parliament. Replica of this plea, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u87	Mr. García Comesaña, you will allow me to tell you that the People's Party has more than proved, by active and passive, that you don't care either the Western bloc or the Eastern bloc, which you are greatly concerned about is the Galician Nationalist Block, and therefore this indecent campaign, trying not to exactly cover up, obviously its shames. [[Applause]] Look, I, the women, like in other fields, are pretty tired of being told that we are in it and that things don't make any progress. It was by the 1960s that the feminist movement began to put gender issues on the table in health. Fifty years later, we have to keep hearing that we're on it, that, well, we're going to do something. At the BNG, it seems to us that we need to step on the accelerator a little bit further. You just said you approved a health equality plan. I'd like to know, yes, yes, I'd like to know how much budget, how many professionals, that is, something more than a headline. [[Murmurs.]] I know the headlines are very cool, but I want to know exactly what's going to happen. I want to know if it's going to be concrete in mental health care, so deficient, women, where it's already so over-diagnosed, medicalized, because of lack of professionals; if once and for all in that equality plan, clinical psychologists will be introduced into primary care, for example, so that they are treated and not only based on pills, they're pasted, but they have professionals who can attend them and therefore have minimal health care of quality. I'd like to know if in that equality plan there's going to be measures to make sure there's enough midwives to meet women's demands. Because there aren't any matrons to be able to hire, Mr. Comesaña? Is it a receipt that they've practically dismantled the FOCs? Is it to be received that the appointment to a woman for family planning is being given to her, yesterday's, for January 2023? Do you really think that's receipt, that it's equal advance? To BNG, of course, he doesn't think so. Just like endometriosis. Look, in 2015 the BNG, I personally brought here an initiative to this parliament to put on the table, indeed, the situation of endometriosis, totally invisible. The Greek girls and the Greek women keep coming in through the door of the consultations and they keep telling them that having a pain of rule is normal. That's reality, today: that's normal. They keep giving them drugs that have nothing to do with their specific pathology, they keep giving them drugs that are for other things, like prostate, and you know it is. There are still point drugs that are not in the wallet. They continue to demand multidisciplinary teams that you refuse to set in motion, that you approve and vote in favour of this parliament and then voted against and voted in favour again, but that they then do not pass the role, Counsellor. And the Greek women deserve, they need health care according to what they need, and they're not receiving it, and they're unprotected in many respects. So today, the BNG brings here this interpellation, from which a motion is going to be derived, where we are going to put on the table real, concrete measures, because we believe it is essential, because the approach of the gender perspective in health is a pending subject, Counsellor. Gender issues exist in health and cannot be hidden, and do nothing from then on in the BNG we think it's not an option, or just give headlines without concretions can't be an option, Counsellor. And I'm not going to deny that you've made progress on issues of equality, but it's not enough, nor at the speed it needs. Among other things, we're half the population. If the other half of the population were at the level of neglect that we're women, things wouldn't be the same. Look, there's an endometriosis specialist -- I've ever told you here in this parliament -- who said that if men had an hour a month of testicular pain similar to women with endometriosis, things wouldn't be in this situation. And I have to repeat it again. [[Applause]] I have to repeat it again because that's the reality, that's the reality of a masculine and masculine view of society in general and also in health care. And you'll have to put it in evidence on the table to put measures into practice. All health indicators are worse for women, and the serious thing is that they are sustained in time, Counsellor, they are supported in clinical practice, quality of life, chronic diseases, mental health, complex interventions. You've spoken here that more women are intervened. I'd like to have a report on what kind of interventions and what is the percentage in complex interventions and what is the time that they're waiting for each other, because we'll be surprised what the result is anyway. So we consider it necessary to modify the health model, to review health policies for equity dollars, to put in place a strategy for the integral care of women in all these fields that I told you earlier, in research, in training, in the application of drugs, in the clinical vision, absolutely in everyone. So much remains to be done, Mr Counsellor, that it is necessary to act bravely, firmly and swiftly, by promoting policies ranging from that diagnosis to training, research, clinical approach, prescription, to increase the number of matrons, to guarantee the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy of each woman's reference hospital, not that they have to travel to miles away from their home, eliminate obstetric violence, guarantee pelvic floor units, units of attention to endometriosis and fibromyalxia, the effect of vaccines on women, the persistent greed and act also, Counsellor, in the face of abuse of power and gender violence from the system itself, as we have already reported in the previous plenary session, which happened at the Center for Standard Health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u89	...but unfortunately, it's not an isolated case. So today what we ask you to do here, apart from being aware of the gender crisis, is that you act constantly to eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the interrogation, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u91	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, I thought you knew the Equality Plan of the Galician Health Service; of course, I'll give you a copy. As I said, it's a plan that was approved in June of this year. I've broken down here the six fundamental lines and fifty-nine measures, which include many of the ones you mentioned. So I can think that, once you know him, you won't say we're working on it anymore, as you just said right now. Yes, we've been working on this field for a long time. As I say, one very specific aspect is the Equality Plan, presented, as I said, in June of this year, that covers from 2021 to 2024. Also in the mental health plan, which I can of course provide if you don't, where you talk specifically about the approach to women's pathology. And I will certainly not agree with you on the waiting list. See, in Galicia the list of queues is not managed by genre. The management criteria on the waiting list are fundamentally clinical and time-consuming. So if you have any doubt that women wait longer to be women, take it out of their heads, it's not so, it's not true in this autonomous community at least. Regarding endometriosis, I just said that in six of the seven health areas there is a multidisciplinary unit of endometriosis; maybe you don't know it either. I just said there are four hundred women treated at that consultation in Ourense or two hundred in Ferrol. I could give you numbers from the rest of the health areas, or patients specifically intervened. Well, you can say there's nothing done, and we could be here arguing for a long time. I wanted to stop in a couple of important things. Gender violence. I want to finish my intervention by alluding to gender-based violence. I would like to remind you that at the end of 2020 we are presenting the procedure for early detection of cases of gender-based violence from the health field, with which we intend to homogenise the care given to the victims and also increase early detection in a timely manner. On this issue, in addition to specific training actions on gender violence, which I think are important — it also broke them in the first part of the intervention — twenty-eight thousand workers of the Galician Health Service have taken courses on preventing gender violence and equality. If it seems to you that this is also what we are in, for well, I think that based on that training we can move forward and, in fact, we are moving forward. And it is also progressing with the construction of a specific working group of gender and health violence, which is formed by professionals in the field of health with great experience in this field, which deals with the revision of the various protocols of early care and complaints of cases in the field of health and also collaborates with the design and performance of public programmes in the field of gender violence, also in the field of health care. And a second working group to develop a multidisciplinary protocol in cases of crimes against sexual freedom. In 2016, since Sergas published the document: "Generation violence, intervention in health", which was updated — as it said — as a result of that protocol. I'd also like to talk about chemical submission. In this field, in the health area of Ourense at the end of 2021, the first guide to action in cases of chemical submission, in which protocols of emergency services, state security forces and bodies were established, the Imelga and in this case the Ourense Provincial Audience, with the aim of systematicizing the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of victims of chemical submission, and which is usually linked to sexual assault or abuse of minors. This guide collects the entire process of clinical performance, as well as the whole procedure in case the patient intervenes. A broad document that we want to extend to all of Galicia so that it can be applied in all health areas in order to improve the attention and detection of these cases. You're talking about multidisciplinary units. This Parliament has also unanimously approved the regulation and homogenisation of these multidisciplinary units. We started with the breast, to then extend it to other pathologies. And, in order to make progress in complying with that agreement, last November the order that regulates the functioning of multidisciplinary units, in this case of care, was published in the Galego Health Service. In this way, the guidelines are set, the criteria for health areas to work on meeting the requirements to adjust these units in case they are already working and progress in their creation in the case of others. I would like to highlight and announce that in these days the indication has been sent to health areas to start working on the formation of multidisciplinary units in pelvic soil pathologies. [[Applause]] I would also like to point out that, within the framework of the Greek Primary Care Plan, the approval of the new service portfolio of the midwives continues to enhance the approach to the rehabilitation of pelvic soil, precisely from the checkups of the midwives, for which twenty squares were also requested in this plan. On the subject of coaches, Mrs. Prado, if you go to the Ministry's website today and draw the ratio of midwives by autonomous community -- it's true that they are data from the year 2020 -- you will discover, to your surprise, that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with better data from masters in primary care; now you might say no, but the public data is there. But if we added the matron squares incorporated in the year 2020 until now, Galicia — it is true that I have only data from Galicia — would go from 0.61 to 0.72 per 10,000 inhabitants, it would become the first. Therefore, you can always improve, of course, on the ratio of midwives, but to say that Galicia is on the queue of the number of midwives I think it is not right, Mrs. Prado. In addition, in the framework of the evaluation of the Welsh Health Strategy, we will clearly establish a gender perspective for addressing the main health problems associated with the Greeks and the Greeks, this gender perspective in the health system, which will also require the new Law for the effective equality of women and men in Galicia, which yesterday began its treatment with the previous public consultation and in which many of the commitments set here will be established. However, we will continue to make progress in that commitment to real and effective equality between men and women in the Galician Health Service, so that women will continue to be the motor of Welsh public health and also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u93	...of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u94	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We take the opportunity to greet the 5th primary students of CEIP Portonovo, Sanxenxo, who are accompanying us today in this session of Parliament. Good morning and thank you for visiting us. We moved on to the next interpellation. Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and three other G.P. Members. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the Greek Plan of Conciliation and Co-responsibility 2018-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u95	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u96	Good morning. Good day again. Good morning, Counselor. According to the latest CIS barrage, 82% of caregivers aged between 0 and 3 years are mothers, 7.5% are grandmothers and not 5% are parents. The CIS also indicates that women spend between four and five hours on household chores and men just over an hour. There is a recent study, which is anecdotic — probably anecdotic — that we left there, which made a consultant for a detergent company and others, which realizes — within that anecdotic question — a rather curious and worrying fact: that 40% of the millennials consulted, that is, boys between 20 and 35 years of age, think that the tasks of the home are better given to women. Recently, the UXT union made a report on the socio-work situation of women with the Gallo of March 8, with data from last year, which points to even more worrying data. Of those who have a part-time contract for having to care for minors or adults with disabilities or older, 94% are women; for having to care for other family responsibilities, the low percentage is 80%; family care surpluses continue to be claimed in 74% of women's cases. Of course, we ask ourselves, now, then, after this: do we tell the Greek women of conciliation, what do they have to reconcile? The point is that all of this that I just exposed, in a very dark way, of course, manifests a very little encouraging scenario about the necessary management with the care manager, which is today what we want to talk about. Public administrations should focus their efforts on ensuring policies that encourage unpaid workload to be shared by all members of the family, with obligations not differentiated by sex. On the contrary, the right to work outside the house will remain impossible for a large number of women. And we're not talking here -- either yes or yes -- about who makes the bed at home or who bathes the child at night; that would be another debate, and today we don't have time, which probably has to get here at some point, but it's obvious that we're talking about the roles that must stop being sexualized. I know this is an opinion that we also share all members of this camera. We in the Socialist Group therefore bring this here and we argue that, in addition to facilitating conciliation measures that are obviously necessary, we must start talking in a manner that would be responsible. And today I'm going to say this word many times, because I think we have to be very clear. Why, of course, who and how to reconcile? We have free children's schools, we've heard the president of the board this morning, to reconcile very well, but who reduces their hours to take the children to the nursery and who reduces their hours to pick them up? We promote telework, yes, we promote telework, very well, but what does it mean for women to work from home? We saw it in the pandemic; all the studies that were done about it presented, as I say, very worrying about this situation. What we think is that we should open up a public debate on the way that remains to go up to a truly equal commitment. It is necessary to update, not so many concepts, that I do not think this is the problem of concept as I have started, and to understand that there is no conciliation — and much less co-responsible or responsible — without any co-responsibility. Because, of course, I repeat: what good is it to reconcile if we are not responsible? And I'm going to give you an example, in addition, of what you've done here today, the president of the board. I realized that, indeed, this government believes it has a problem precisely about this issue and this confusion between the two concepts or the importance of which priority is first. Because Mr. Feijóo also spoke in today's intervention and came to say that the situation of women, well, improves in part also because we have free childhood schools, and that is to reconcile. That has nothing to do with co-responsibility. But I'm going to give you another even more graphic example. With the EUR 10.5 million of the Corresponsible Plan received by Galicia from the State to strengthen autonomous measures in order to ensure that there is a true balance in the distribution of family responsibilities, the Council of Galicia, its Government, its council decides to allocate the third part, 3.5 million, to carry out programmes — eye! — of animation for children under 16 years of age in an agreement with the German sports federations. Nothing to object to the program, absolutely nothing to object to. But what exactly does that contribute to co-responsibility? Because conciliation does, but what about co-responsibility? If we bet who will be the people, mothers or parents, who take those children to these animation activities, we probably know the answer well, right? That is why we want to ask you, Counsellor, indeed, that from the most constructive point of view, because we think that this debate is one of the essentials of ending women's discrimination in the workplace, but also in staff, is whether you understand that it is a priority to work in co-responsibility so that conciliation measures and policies are really effective. Because what we are actually watching at these times is what we see as this government continues to move forward on that path of facilitating reconciliation, but it does not advance previously in the primary challenge of working on co-responsibility. The reality is that we appreciate little effort on the part of the Council of Galicia to move forward in this field. And we can explain it with several examples. In the Non-Permanent Special Study Commission on Galician Economic, Social and Cultural Reactivation for the Covid crisis, the three parliamentary groups finally agreed to urge the Union to strengthen support for conciliation and co-responsibility programmes in order to end discrimination and thus facilitate equal access to employment in the development of the professional career of women in Greece. Of course, the reality was that in the budgets for this exercise the Government of Greece brutally reduced the match for co-responsibility and conciliation; in fact, it was one of the biggest cuts, 25% of all accounts, compared to the year 2021. We want to know -- I don't know if today you can explain it -- what was the reason to reduce that match in the budgets of 2022 and what were the services that were reduced or deleted by these new accounts. I read in some media that you said that, well, that reduction was due to the funds coming from other departments now. Of course, and I'd also set an example, I don't know if you're going to say it here today, then I'll answer it; but, well, you know that these funds coming from other departments are not -- I repeat -- for co-responsibility and yes for conciliation, for telework and so on. But this is not to encourage co-responsibility, and much less a co-responsible and responsible conciliation — I repeat —. Nor did it, as it was also mandated by this parliament, take place the update of that first plan of conciliation and co-responsibility, which has just ended. We would be left to update it, so it was mandated and approved in this parliament in the face of the pandemic crisis, which has highlighted great effects on this matter and the prejudice that has been for women. We wanted to adapt it to the new needs, which were excruciating, and it doesn't seem like it was done either; at least we don't know it, and I think we should get to know it. In view of this, we ask ourselves if you think we can be calm thinking that our Government, in fact, will work to advance in co-responsibility, as I say, the first step for conciliation to stop being an intelligence for women. It makes me as funny as a mother when they talk to me about reconciliation, I always say the same thing: what does that mean? We don't reconcile, women don't reconcile. In the century in which we must focus all our efforts on the shared management of care, as I say, the first step of the long-awaited equality and step before real conciliation — let us put it to the head — our group, the Socialist Group, understands that the Greek Government must take responsibility for it and give — as I say — a response to that mandate of the Greek Parliament by promoting a more equal distribution between women and men of the burden of care, with the adoption of, of course, new measures that encourage co-responsibility. That's what we have to do: encourage co-responsibility. But, of course, it takes data to be available and Galician Union has us. We also ask ourselves: do you have that data on Galician Union? And I ask more: do you know the Council of Galicia no longer what our reality is — it would be very well known — but also — and not little important — the perception of the Greek people, the Greek society, about both terms and about what is that assignment of tasks? And I'm saying this because we believe a new Greek reconciliation and co-responsibility plan is a priority; of course, we think they should be already working on the evaluation of that first plan before they get to work on the second one. Because, of course, in all matters — certainly in all matters — but in this is essential, it is essential to know the impact of these measures. And I told you before, too, in the reply to the People's Group's GNP: it's essential to make that assessment first. So what we want to know is what state this assessment is in and if we have planned a new plan -- let's hope so -- for the period we understand 2022-2025, taking into account the periodicity of the first one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u98	Yes, I'm done. And if so, we would also like to ask you about those expected deadlines for presentation. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u100	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Díaz, first of all, thank you very much for your constructive intervention, despite the fact that, of course, there are ideological natural discrepancies and some inaccuracies — in my view — in some detail. But, well, I recognize the good intentions of the registered initiative. If I agree with you -- and I think there is no difficulty with the Government's terminological distinction, with the President of the Board at the head -- as for conciliation and co-responsibility. What is more, you have to realize that the aid that has been provided since the Employment Council — I am not talking about conciliation in the social policy agenda, which you referred to the President — we have been giving in the last few years precisely in terms of co-responsibility, that is to say, to support the reduction in the number of men's days. So, I think this is a concept that we have clear and we agree with you: we must move forward from the term of traditional conciliation to a co-responsibility. Before I begin to answer questions about the Co-responsibility Plan, about the evaluation and the new plan that we are going to carry out, I would like to make a clarification about the Corresponsible Plan of the Ministry of Equality. Because, of course, you tell me — criticism, I believe — the execution of that plan and the first program we launched last week with the General Secretariat of Sports. Look, this plan — which you probably don't know — is a plan of the Ministry of Equality, which started last year, which has a lot of money; the Autonomous Community of Galicia corresponds to 10, but, well, imagine the Community of Andalusia or Castilla-Leon. We have been presenting initiatives and we have had several sectoral conferences over the past year and this year, and it turns out that it is impossible to clarify the requirements of the Ministry of Equality, because the ministry does not even know them. We have a number of initiatives, which are formalized precisely in the line that you're saying, that is, in a new line of co-responsibility plans, to move forward as far as the services and the aids that are being provided. None have been accepted. No autonomous community was able to implement this plan, except Castilla-La Mancha, which was dedicated to helping the municipalities and unions in what you so criticized; and that's what Castilla-La Mancha did. The other autonomous communities were none of us who, because it is impossible to clarify with the criteria of the ministry. This is very worrisome. We are concerned about all governments of all autonomys as the Ministry of Equality is doing with this plan. This year, at last, he has clearly defined the requirements, and I can assure you that all the plans we are making — first, this sport — are on the line strictly marked by the ministry, and I can't use the money for anything else. So, if I want to clarify it and you know that each of the actions that we're going to take out with the Corresponsible Plan, I'm not deciding on it, I'm deciding on it by Mrs. Irene Montero and her State Secretariat, and with those requirements I'm going to do my best to execute those funds in Galicia, as all the other equality councils are doing in Spain, because this is not a matter of policy, it's a matter that no autonomous community disagrees with, and so we say it at the sectoral conferences. Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan 2018-2021. Indeed, this has been said in this Chamber and we have complied with that first examination which has been requested and which has been agreed Parliamentally. But we probably didn't realize the results; then I'm going to figure it out now. We did a first analysis of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 in June 2021. Well, then, for the first three years of the plan, in June 2021 — as I tell you — seven out of every ten measures were already being carried out. And I'm going to report on strategic areas -- not to extend much -- in the first strategic area, which was generating consciousness and knowledge, we were running on that date by 88%; in the second strategic area, co-educating to a corresponding society, 92%; in the third, articulating a new culture of the times, executed by 61%; in the fourth strategic area, reinforcing the commitment of organizations with a corresponding reconciliation, 69%; and in the fifth area, strengthening support resources, 57%. We are now carrying out the remaining analysis, the complete analysis of the plan. The forecast is that it will be completed after the summer, in September, the totality with that year and a half that is yet to be analyzed. And of course we are working on a second plan, which will be presented I believe at the end of the year, together with the entry into Parliament of the Equality Law, that will be, as you said, from the year 2022-2025. This plan will be based precisely on the results of this evaluation and we will also try to conjugate it — as I say — with what we can do in equality policies with the money of the Union, of course, but also with what comes from the Ministry of Equality. I also want to clarify that 25% of the specific game or that program that they continuously mark. In fact, the budget for conciliation and co-responsibility of the Employment Council — I am speaking alone — in 2021 was 4,745,497, this year is more than 16 million euros that we are using in conciliation and co-responsibility. It's true that this program, in particular, in 2021, had 2,600,000 and this year it has 2 million; but it's the program that goes precisely for aid to the most classic conciliation, which is exactly what you were criticizing. But we're doing a lot more help and a lot more Conciliation and Co-responsibility programs, which are under these 16 million, not only in that program that puts "conciliation aid and co-responsibility." We're trying to help the autonomous reconciliation. They exist in the budgets of the board of directors to help reconcile the self-employed person by supporting another person's recruitment so that the self-employed can devote their time to the care of minors. Of course, for maternity or paternity leave, and also for older care. There is a specific line in the Emega business program for conciliation. We are helping to encourage companies — and I want to talk about this — to make flexible agreements and telework promotion agreements. And, as I'm telling you, we're also trying to carry out or execute those funds from the Corresponsible Plan, bad that we care about, the way the Ministry of Equality tells us. As I told you, I believe that in this new equality law — and I really hope to reach agreements in this regard — we must move forward in the concepts that we are using to carry out policies that emerge from traditional conciliation and even from traditional co-responsibility. In that law we will try to start talking about what is working well-being and in companies we have been working — and then, if you want, in the reply, to extend to me more — with a German job equality brand. In the social dialogue we have already held eighteen meetings this year with trade unions and entrepreneurs to agree on a distinction for companies that have better standards as regards equality policies in their staff frameworks, as well as conciliation and co-responsibility actions, and also that they have firm commitments to achieve equal pay for equal value. This German brand of equality, which, as I say, when we incorporate it into the law will always be with the agreement of trade unions and entrepreneurs in the social dialogue, we want it to serve for these companies in Galicia to open the way for a new reorganization of the times, flexibility of the schedules, etc., etc., etc. I think we can't keep talking -- and that's why I'm telling you that I agree more with what you believe in -- just about conciliation, we can't continue to support exclusively a reduction in the woman's daytime, because this is exactly what you're going to do with an increase in the wage gap and a reduction in women's professional careers. We must try to overcome these traditional policies of conciliation, where we support precisely the reduction in the agenda and in order to try to get entrepreneurs to be the ones who are or are part of this process and start talking really about a rationality and flexibility of schedules and schedules. There are companies in Galicia — and many — that are collaborating with us in defining all these new ways of organizing work that already have good work organization and equality policies in the company. So we have to get rid of the entrepreneurship to try to open a new line in Galicia where women can really continue their professional careers and where, of course, there is a co-responsibility in care work, domestic work, and also a balance between working life and personal life. Then I'll explain if you often want the topic of the brand. But finally, what we are looking for is, with the resources we have, to be able to define these co-responsibility policies — I tell you: very limited. Secondly, to open a new framework, because we understand that conciliation and co-responsibility policies are clearly the responsibility of the Government, but they are also the responsibility of the men and the responsibility of the companies as well. It is essential to incorporate productive tissue into reconciliation and co-responsibility policies; if not, it is impossible for such a complex problem — as you well said in your intervention — to achieve a genuine solution. We're going to set up patches for women to stay at home, to leave boys in childhood schools, but we're not really going to boost a professional career, because there's no flexibility and rationality as far as working times are concerned. For now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u101	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u102	Well, the truth is, I also appreciate the tone; well, I was expected, I expected no less. But I do appreciate your answer and that you really understand the need to invest or really give priority to what you have to give priority before access to conciliation, which, of course, is fine. It is true that there are terms that are absolutely related -- no one says no -- but perhaps we need to focus more on that co-responsibility. Because developing policies that promote co-responsibility finally we know that it has a profound impact on equality, but also, as is logical, on the economy and on social welfare itself. This long-awaited change of paradigm in the social, labour, but also in the area of care, should affect future political and economic actions. Because we're talking about care, hey, look! Co-responsibility has nothing but household chores and care, no more. We have to be responsible precisely to meet these two fields. What should be the goal? In our view, in the Socialist Group, it should be, through transversal — transversal — policies of all departments of the Government of Greece, the balanced participation of men and women in family life and the labour market, with the restructuring of obviously — as you have said — and the reorganization of labour and education systems and social resources, in order to introduce equal opportunities in employment, to vary traditional roles and stereotypes and to cover care needs. I think, for example, the question of varying traditional roles, of course, are personal decisions, it's something that needs to be changed, that we can't just blame a government, but I think you have a lot to do with this and you can start working on that field. That's precisely what we're talking about today. If there is no co-responsibility, conciliation measures will not work. That is, it won't finally be solved, because all this ultimately ends up in a gender gap that affects the quality of women's life and work. So once, as I say, we really solve the question of co-responsibility and we get it to be true, then if we can talk about responsible conciliation, of co-responsible conciliation. I didn't say funny, but I'm really surprised. You, for example, spoke of some of the issues of that first plan, which we are glad that you are already evaluating and preparing the following. I'm going to ask you to give yourself something more in a hurry, if it can be better before summer than after summer, because I think this is a matter of interest and it's also urgent, right? But, for example, in the motivation of the first plan, the one that says they're evaluating, which is true, which also explains very accurately everything we're saying, because in the motivation of the plan it looks very well reflected on the question of co-responsibility, but it really doesn't seem to have been too careful after that. This is an example of the importance of co-education and equal education. I am a mother — and I do not need to be that — and I understand and know the importance of co-education and equal education. We agree that it is a crucial step forward in that co-responsibility, not in conciliation. But of course, they set an example of the Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres, which ended in 2020, and we know nothing at all. We don't know either of the results or whether they're preparing another or what the impact was on children and children, or whether, as I say, there will be another plan. Look, yesterday the newspaper Galicia Confidential published an excellent report by a journalist, Uxía Iglesias, in which he collected the views of a professor at the University of Santiago, Carmen Castro, who pointed out that in order to solve inequalities in the field of work, we have to go to the casual factor. And what was the casual factor? For she pointed out — and we fully agreed — that inequalities in the distribution of time and work at home; that is, the absence of such co-responsibility. I would also point out that teacher who has to start talking, because she has to start doing so — as I said before — that all campaigns that have to do with equality, these awareness campaigns, must begin to focus on men. Women know exactly what our problems are. But she also pointed out that we have to start talking about absenteeism in the care that men practice. Well, maybe there could be some action in that Corresponsible Plan, too, because I was talking about the requirements. They also suggest something in this direction and see if the answer is good. But we certainly think that we should start talking like this, about absenteeism in the care that men practice. As far as teleworking is concerned, we can no longer agree with Professor Carmen Castro, who pointed out that, if it is necessary — obviously, there is no doubt about that — of course, if it is not accompanied by an effective strategy of co-responsibility that affects the change of men's behaviors, the telework will finally be, as she said — and we, as I say, agree — a trap for women. So -- it's over time -- I'm the only thing I want to say to you is that, which is very necessary for that second plan, that we ask you for a little more speed in that assessment and in the presentation of the next plan, it doesn't have to coincide at all with the amendment of the law, which, of course, I also applaud. But, please, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u104	...—if—focus first on the co-responsibility that these conciliation measures already exist in our country. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Díaz. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] You have the reply of Employment and Equality Counsellor, Mrs. Lorenzana Somoza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u106	Thank you, President. Well, what I said about the consonance of the new plan with the law is a little bit because it coincides in the times and because it also, by entering into what I was commenting on about the equality plan in the educational institutions, there are many issues that will go or that I understand they have to be consistent in the law and in the new planning we make of reconciliation and co-responsibility. In particular, the law has a specific title on equality in education and educational institutions. I can't agree that in educational institutions we haven't advanced on equality. We were pioneers in incorporating teaching materials, in incorporating free configuration subjects in the field of equality. And in that sense, I think Galicia is headed on equal terms in education. We will incorporate news into the law, in particular the existence in the educational centres of some professional who is an expert in equality, so that he can advise the professor in this matter, and some other questions. And, of course, also issues that you, the parliamentary groups, can propose for you to be incorporated into the new legislative text, into the new equality plan in educational institutions. I believe that if we have to value the work of that first Greek plan of conciliation and co-responsibility. They think that these years, until 2021, almost EUR 850 million for conciliation and co-responsibility policies in these few concrete measures, of which, as I say, in June 2021, we have already carried seven out of every ten. And then we have to continue, of course — I agree — moving forward. It is unacceptable to the wage gap that exists right now, not in Galicia, throughout Europe; in fact, in Galicia we are better than in the European media, but of course we must continue to move forward. It's unacceptable for women's professional careers to meet with these ceilings, each in their profession. Now, you will recognize with me the complexity of the matter. The fact of influencing the absenteeism of care practiced by men, which I can't agree with anymore, is a matter that not only depends on governments. It's a matter that depends on individual freedom, to begin with; it's a matter that also depends on working, and much, on social awareness, with men and women, not only with men, men and women. And I say again, it's a matter that also depends on businesses. And we have to work on the three axes. I can't agree that in the Government we have neither passivity nor are we right. I believe that in the German Government we are fully committed to conciliation and co-responsibility. We have and we have lots of samples -- the president said today, and I'm giving you data today on the plan as such -- that show the real commitment of this government. But if we don't move forward with men and women's awareness and businesses, we're not going to get real results. As I said before, if I would like to, because there are already the requirements of this equality mark agreed within the social dialogue, and I believe that this yes can be a measure that opens the way to Galicia in respect of the larger, better organized companies or that have better reconciliation and co-responsibility policies as they open the way, make an example to others, in order, in some way, to move forward in this direction. This brand is going to be a brand that will be distinctive exclusively to those companies that have an equality plan where they have already implemented at least 25% of the measures provided for in that plan, even if the plan is voluntary. And it doesn't have to be just for companies with equal and mandatory plans. If you have boards of directors, you have to have at the moment that you give them the mark at least 25% of the women in that council, with a commitment that during the vigil of the brand, which is four years of first exit -- say -- you have to increase the percentage of women in that board of directors. They need to have a minimum level of equal work training for people working at negotiating tables and negotiating committees. And they have to believe in that four-year period of brand vigency that they have equal pay for jobs of equal value. What will companies value? That they establish selection processes from a gender perspective; that they establish a career plan in the company that allows women to enter positions that are masculinized; that they contain measures or services that expand the existing framework of reconciliation and co-responsibility; that they establish measures to organize working time; that they carry out actions to attract workers to achieve a balanced representation; and that they also establish awareness-raising and outreach measures that facilitate this co-responsibility of men and women, and that they raise men and women's awareness of co-responsibility, preventing maternity and care from constituting a professional disadvantage against women. Well, that's all. This is one of the proposals that, as I tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u108	...—end, President—if we want that when it is incorporated into the law it already goes with the support of social dialogue, but we are completely open to any concrete action that can be proposed by any of the parliamentary groups to incorporate into the law. If there really exists a measure that we can put in place that implies a change in Galicia in this matter, we will be in favour. But they have to be realistic measures and, of course, I really appreciate that they understand. This is a very complex problem and it doesn't solve exclusively...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u110	...with a percentage of economic aid to reduce a day and promote reconciliation. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u111	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by D. Pablo Arangüena Fernández and Da Paloma Castro Rey, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the increase of greens to the Welsh rivers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u112	Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that twenty-two years have passed since the entry into force of the Water Framework Directive, twenty-two years in which Galicia received large amounts of European funds theoretically directed to clean up our waters and avoid pollution that should not exist today, and although you say that you invested 1,100 million euros in sanitation, in Galicia pollution is not going to go any less, but to more, because we have a government of counterfeiters and green fraudsters who, by action or by default, make toxic policies. And we have an ecoposture counselor whose only interest in the environment is to take a picture from time to time, to go out saying that Galicia is green, that Galicia is very pretty, despite which, after nineteen years in politics, its level of knowledge is surprisingly low, according to a recent survey; by the fact, the same as that of the Infrastructure Advisor, exactly the same, 31%. The level of his green forgery reaches such a point that at the control session of this Chamber on June 9 last year, Mr. Feijóo told Gonzalo Caballero, literally, that Vigo's laugh is healed and the Arousa's laugh is practically healed. Sanated one, practically healed to another, said our badge statesman, despite the fact that the data of Galician Waters themselves show that the Vigo River, which Mr. Feijóo considers to be healthy, had 209 green points, of which 23 were black dots, and the Arousa 444 green points, of which 56 were black dots. So Mr. Feijóo was saying in this parliament less than a year ago that Vigo's river was healed, but the data from Junta show that he was lying, because there were 23 black spots in Vigo's river, that he said it was healed, at least, according to his data; and Mr. Feijóo said in this chamber that the Arousa's river was practically healthy, but the data from Junta itself prove that it's a lie too, because there were 56 black points in the river, that he said it was practically healthy. That's why I'm going to explain not only to Greek citizenship, but also now, given the situation, to Spanish citizenship, that Mr. Feijóo has no problem with cognitive dissonance, but simply with the same nature as he breathes. But beyond the lies of Mr. Feijóo, we must say that we have a major pollution problem in the rivers and rivers of Galicia. The best proof of this problem is that today we have fourteen marine areas classified as C, that is, fourteen areas of our rivers where pollution does not allow shellfish extraction without a prolonged purification process. And when we register this initiative there were thirteen, by the way, and a year earlier there were twelve, and a little earlier there were eleven, but today we have fourteen marine areas classified as C. That is not to say there are another ninety-eight areas in which we also need to debug the shellfish, even if it's less intense. This is an objective indicator of our pollution problem. We've spent a few years in eleven zones C to fourteen zones C, where they can't swim. Eleven were too many, fourteen were three more. These are only the most serious cases, because, for example, Testal beach, in Noia, where you rule, is one of Galicia's most important seafood banks, but in that important seafood bank the bathroom has not been allowed for six years, because it's so contaminated that bathing involves a health risk. Therefore, the beach of Testal and its sea bank are not fit for the bath due to pollution, but, instead, you can soar there, though the very short distance in the same laugh the residual waters of the village of Noia, which has a debugger that has not worked for a long time, are seen directly to the laugh of the dog. You said in 2018 that you were going to solve this problem by investing 200,000 euros of European funds, but it's been four years and Testal's beach is still not fit for the bath because of its contamination. Which implies that, in addition to forgers and green fraudsters, you are objectively incompetent, because they have been unable to solve this serious pollution problem in the heart of Galicia for more than six years. A real shame. And bear in mind that the nanny coop is part of the Natura 2000 network, and it is also declared by the Galician Union of Special Protection of Natural Values. So it's a space that by law should be in an optimal state of environmental conservation. But instead, it's a real cloaca in one of Galicia's most important rivers. So we have in Noia an area that is at the same time Nature and Cloaca Network, in a creek that has about fifty black points of dumping, that Mr. Feijóo will say it's almost healed. So the ladies who come to tell us today are nothing more than that: trolls and propaganda, because we've heard them many times, that are systematically denied by reality. Galicia of official happiness to the real Galicia of the problems of citizenship. And the problem of pollution in our rivers is not only an environmental problem but an economic and social problem, because in the Noia river — by example — three thousand people have come to sea; that figure is twice as much as at present. In the Coruña they came to waltz 2,000 people, and today there is practically no seafood activity. At Ferrol they were marscading for less than six hundred people, not reaching 80 today. This is to put only three outstanding examples, because it could still be an example. You recognize 200 black dots poured into Galicia's creeks, but your data, surprisingly, are not published or have never been anywhere. Data from spills in the rivers and rivers of Galicia seem to be a real state secret, obscene violation of transparency legislation and basic norms of common sense in a democracy. And despite your full competence in combating pollution, coastal management, the environment, fishing, aquaculture and shellfish, etc., and despite your receiving hundreds and hundreds of millions of European funds, you are not able to be at least up to a matter that should be given priority to Galicia. This is a highly strategic issue from both economic and environmental point of view, as well as tourism. Perhaps the greatest example of his incompetence is the regeneration of the Coruña River; a demand that has been on the table for 20 years. And the Junta de Feijóo and the Rajoy government were ten years old to boost the sanitation of the Coruña stream, and they didn't. It has to be a progressive government that initiates the works, that are already being developed and that will have an estimated budget of about thirty-two million euros, of which you know how much it brings to Galicia? For zero euros to re-regine the stream of the Coruña, affected by decades of pollution. And if we talk about our rivers, I don't have to go too far to set as an example the last spill in the river of the town of the Environmental Council, where in the summer of 2019 an industrial spill killed 10,000 trouts in the River Furelos, in Melide, in a space that belongs, to vary, to the Natura 2000 Network. That was the last major spill of a total of ten years that took place in the last seventeen years in a report from Seprona, to which the Environmental Council, the Environmental Adviser, has done absolutely nothing — and you have not — as advisor or mayor, to avoid more than fifteen years of pollution — more than twenty-five since the industrial polygon was created there — reiterated in an ecosystem that is part of the Natura Network and which is also in the council of the Environmental Adviser, than was mayor. And the alleged cause of this spill, which was opened to you by the municipality, of course, is a dairy company called DayriLac, attended by the board in twenty-five percent. And you know who's the president of the DayriLac Board of Directors? A colleague of yours named Antonio Coucier, who was Industry Counsellor. Do you know how much public money that company received from the board? Some EUR 4.88 million in grants just over the two years prior to that discharge. In other words, Junta creates companies with public money, places militants to direct them, subsidizes these companies, which then liquidate wildlife and flora in ecosystems theoretically included in the Natura Network; by the way, Spain's smallest. There are many more examples to stay here talking about our rivers, but I'm going to stay here for a matter of time. An example of a situation of constant environmental deterioration of river ecosystems, which resulted in the abandonment of river fishing by most of its practitioners, reducing the number of fishing licences since Mr Feijóo arrived at the presidency of the Board of Governors around eighty-five thousand fishing licences in 2009 to thirty-seven thousand at present; that is, almost 50,000 river fishermen less in Galicia because pollution liquidates our rivers. But you say there's no contamination. And it's a lie, Counselor. I'm not saying that, ask the Maricadores and the Maricadores and the Fishermen of Galicia. And each of them will tell you the truth, that when you tell them they're ending up with pollution, the only thing they're ending with is the truth. See if you can answer any of my 11 questions. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u115	Thank you, President. Your Honor, apart from the fact that you seem confused as a counselor, I, in any case, see little constructive intervention of yours, very unconstructive, and only, for example, a nuance, with concrete examples, so that children too can understand us: do not confuse a dredging in the Burgo stream by eliminating spills and the healing of the Burgo stream. Because the sanitation of the Burgo River has already improved the classification of the river, a hundred million euros have already been invested, and it was this government. And don't confuse a dredging, if you want to come here to talk about and give lessons of sanitation, purification and disposal of pollutants, with sanitation. [[Applause]] In any case, understanding it, I can understand that deep down he's concerned about the sanitation and the quality of the water. So, I'm grateful to you that at the bottom you seem to be able to be seriously concerned and work constructively for improving the quality of our rivers' water and the environmental health of our rivers, on the day of tomorrow, at the board of board of board, we will approve the draft bill of improvement of the entire water cycle. I hope with that same enthusiasm and enthusiasm I support you. If you want to eliminate spills, if you want to move forward to help the municipalities, which are the ones who have the competences, and improve sanitation, therefore the quality of the waters, I hope that with the same enthusiasm, with words and with the toponyms, of course, you agree more because I support this law with that enthusiasm, which is necessary. It's a law at which point-by-point you see the goals, which are to improve water quality, to protect quality, to improve the environment. I would welcome you to really worry constructively about the quality of our waters. I think I should recognize our commitment to the elimination of spills. It's worth 1,100 million euros. It is EUR 1,110 million invested in an important way to help municipalities exercise their powers. Since 2009 they've been poured out, it's been these investments, five hundred million euros, half in the German rivers. That investment has been concentrated. I assumed a huge effort from the Galician Union to help the municipalities. And I also assumed enormous progress, because 90% of the population of agglomerations comply with the directive; 76% of the water masses in good condition. It won't sound good news to you, but it's an important step forward. We have to keep working. And it's also going to seem like a minor sin on the advance of the spill control plan and what I've been suggesting the spill control plan in the last ten years. We have reduced contaminants from 40% to 15%. That there is a spill doesn't mean it's polluting, Your Honor. So concepts also need to be able to define and explain, and focus on the subject. There were about six hundred inventoryed dumps, the result of inspection work, because 573 were cured. And, Your Honor, maximum transparency in the field of dumping. I'd like you to request that maximum transparency from the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, where you rule. We have a dump control program where every alert is detailed. But take note, which I think is confused as a counselor, he's also confused with counseling, and he doesn't know how to look at the website. Take note: aguasdecalicia.join.gal. There's information about the dump control program. I would like the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil, where you rule, to be equally transparent. [[Applause]] I'm going to insist on the competitions. Skills are municipal. We are aware that for the municipalities it is a matter that overflows them and, of course, it is a complex matter. But it's their exclusive and direct competition, and we want to help them, we want to help them in their skills. These are such skills that I think you should also know that dumping to municipal networks is municipal competition. They have to have orders of discharge, but they have to know. The spills to the river inspect the waters of Galicia. The dumps to the municipal network, which then go to the river, must have orders, and comply with those ordinances. So, municipal competition. But that's why Together helps the municipalities, helps us because we care about water and we want to take care of water. Therefore, the Union helps the municipalities in matters of sanitation, supply and purification; it knows the difficulties of the municipalities. But don't turn cooperation and involvement into a legal obligation we don't have. We helped. We have a calm conscience; we've done a lot, we have to keep working. You can have a calm conscience knowing that the MPs in which you rule completely disagree with the improvement of water infrastructure management. You have to see what Costas does, in Madrid, the Ministry, where you rule, that prevent us from moving forward in the sanitation of our rivers, laying poles and constantly blocking our works and our investments in the rivers of Galicia, which you don't understand Coasts, or what the Confederation of Mine-Sil does in its cup. So I think you've got a lot of places to go. And don't come here to sit down as a body that's helping the municipalities in their jurisdictions; where you rule, for there's a lot to be desired. So I think that more humility and more constructs philosophy and talk about water management. And I think you'll also understand that we have to share that it's not the same as a council that meets and a council that systematically violates its responsibilities and competences. Nor can we allow the Greeks to pay for all the irresponsibility and overcosts of certain debuggers and certain sanitation networks because of that desire from some municipalities that are repeatedly mismanagement, which obliges the Greeks to pay overcosts. And, of course, where you rule, you don't go very well. From the Galician Union we assumed to help the municipalities, twenty-eight debuggers. You could give him information and you could be informed by mayors where you rule that it is to give him information and you could be informed by mayors where you rule what happens on those networks. So I think more constructive should be your intervention. We also designed to help the municipalities, and on their own initiative, fourteen local sanitation plans in the last decade, archet the archet, point to point, analyzing palm to palm all municipal sanitation networks to help the municipalities. In addition to 500 million euros invested in the rivers, we continue to work to improve the rivers. I had the opportunity here to talk about it, because a week ago we bid the collectors in Vilagarcia, to improve sanitation in Vilagarcia; a very serious problem, municipal, of spills in the Con River, which are going to laugh. Who's got to fix that municipal problem? Or the county? No, no, no, no. The Deputy of Pontevedra will help eliminate your spills, where do you rule? No, no, no, no. You have to go to Junta to rescue and improve the municipal sanitation network of the Municipality of Vilagarcia to eliminate 97% of the municipal spills that go to the Arousa River. We're going to clean it up from Galicia's board with 33 million euros. And it's not the Deputy of Pontevedra or the Town Hall of Vilagarcia, where you rule. [[Applause]] Eight million euros in Viveiro; it's the Union of Galicia, you rule. Twelve million euros in the clearance of Foz and the sanitation system at Foz, you rule. It's the Galician Union that's going to solve that problem; neither the Lugo Deputy nor the Town Hall, the county is making the land available, but that investment since Galician Union. In Cabanas and Pontedeme, 9 million euros. In Rianxo, 14 million euros. These are actions we're doing to improve the sanitation of the rivers. In Vigo, of course we made a very important investment. We'd also like to clean up at Teis, but it's just that he doesn't leave us the mayor, he doesn't want us to invest. Teis sanitation, inform yourself of Teis sanitation. In Pontevedra we are also working. Well, our facts confirm it. And we could have done much more in recent years in the sanitation of the rivers if it hadn't been on the coast of Madrid; in the last three years we only saw problems in the coast of Madrid. Therefore, I rather than defend the acronyms, I should defend Galicia and help and also get out of the car so that Coastal facilitates the work and does not make it difficult to work. We will continue to help the municipalities in their competences. The municipalities are free to ask for help from the waters of Galicia. The draft law of improvement of the entire water cycle also part of that base, of which the municipalities have competition, and are free to ask for help from Galician waters in this complex, complicated, ungrateful matter, which is sanitation and purification, because it is a very difficult matter. And I think that the implication has to be of everyone, of the smallest, who are very aware, of the concessionary companies, but of course, of the administrations. Galician waters are totally compromised. The deputies in which you rule have recently seen their reluctance in recent months to help the municipalities to improve the management of the entire water cycle. Because, Your Honor, you must do works, but you must manage them. If we do works and leave them lying there, we don't do anything, bread with pies. Therefore, managing debuggers is also important. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will support the draft law of the comprehensive water management improvement, because it is a necessary law, a law that asks us for a lot of mayors, waiting for their entry into force...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u117	...helps with sanitation and debugging. And we don't look elsewhere, we've come up with solutions to improve the management of the entire water cycle. While we see as other administrations, deputies where you rule, coasts or even the Confederation of Mine-Sil, that yes, that often look elsewhere. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u118	Thank you, Counselor. We also welcome the 5th and 6th primary students from CEIP Plurilingual Carballedo, from the Town Hall of Sardinia-Cotobade. So thank you very much for accompanying us here today in this session. [[Pause.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Aranguena Fernández has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm not mistaken as a counselor. What happens is that his environmental advisor's relationship with the pollution of the river in his locality is absolutely paradigmatic of the relation the Government of Galicia itself has with pollution and with the environment: inaction and — he said clearly — to default prevarication. Because you haven't done anything since the year 1995 an industrial polygon was installed there without any sort of debugging system, and they've been ruling there ever since, and at the Juneta almost always. [[Applause]] You haven't given me an answer to any of my 13 questions. I told you before there were eleven, it's actually thirteen. Zero questions of thirteen. So you tell me that I'm not constructive, but you don't allow me to build because you don't answer any of my 13 questions. Give you an answer to one. What we've already proposed to you on more than one occasion is that you do, you implement an integral plan for the regeneration of the rivers and rivers of Galicia within the scope of your competences. By the way, you rejected that proposal. I'm going back to propose here, now, to see what he tells me. Don't confuse the dredging of the Coruña creek with a theme of sanitation. It's an act of dredging and regenerating, because as you should know, the result of decades of contamination is sedimented at the bottom of the river, it's going to be removed and put into certain specific containers. That's what you're going to do there: regrow the stream of the Coruña, not just dredging the stream of the Coruña. And you put zero euros. You're going to approve a draft water cycle law — you're very proud — criticized all over the world. But you've been ruling Galicia thirty-three out of forty years of autonomy, and you're going to get — I told you, tomorrow, you're going to approve it — a Water Cycle Bill. All right, great management on its part with the pollution and the integral cycle of water. You tell me I don't look at the Galician Waters website, I challenge you to find me on the Galician Waters or Unions website, at the Transparency Portal, somewhere, the spill data, just the number, I don't tell you the specification anymore. They don't exist, Counselor! So you're deceiving this parliament and citizenship. [[Applause]] You have them completely hidden. I'm telling you there are fourteen C zones in Galicia where you can't water for pollution; you tell me everything's fine. I'm telling you that there are 200 black spots recognized by you only in the rivers of Galicia, not counting the rivers, because the river data doesn't even make it easy for you, and you tell me we're going very well. I'm telling you about tangible realities with specific examples; you put out some figures that still, well, basically gave the fats, but in any case, neither those that are periodically providing, nor those that you told me here today are contrasted or verified by anyone else but you; nor, as I said, are they accessible. You give periodically here in this parliament the figures you have, because no one can discuss them. But even with those figures it is evident that pollution increases in Galicia. Because if there are about twenty-seven percent more points according to their own figures, which you haven't yet -- seeing if I get out in the second part, but they're already circulating in some medium -- 27 percent more points of dumping than in 2015, because you're going to tell me now that most of them meet the parameters. But meeting the parameters doesn't mean that there's no more pollution, because the total volume of pollution increases, as you understand perfectly. The volume of black dots increases by about ten percent according to the latest data published by the press in a single year in the creeks. And so you're a toxic government, you're a contaminant government. And you tell me you've invested 1,100 million -- again -- since Mr Feijóo is here. Which would be very good if the money were from Mr. Feijóo, yours, from your pocket. But they're not, they're public money coming from most European funds, which you will understand to be for that, to be spent and invested. It's absurd for you to assume that you spend European funds as if you got out of your pocket. Despite being ingenious — as I tell you — amounts of European funds, pollution worse, Counsellor, which proves that you are objectively incompetent. And that's what they have all the competences of the world in the field of pollution. I know perfectly well. But you also know, as much as you come here to say they're incompetent. Incompetent yes because they are ineffective, but they have all the competences of the world, because the Statute of Self-Government, if you read it, if you are told read it, says that you are basically the administration primarily competent in Galicia in environmental and pollution control matters; not the only one, "principally." But you say that the problem is not yours, even though you collect the sanitation cannon and other canons and other taxes, and each year you receive the European funds to fight against pollution. In conclusion and to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u120	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u121	... yes, Mr. President-, Counsellor, stop the stage of doing what they do and fulfill their obligation to fight against pollution. Stop making a fat look at the spills of your friends' businesses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u123	...and you told me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u124	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u125	...to one of my 13 questions; at least one to give me such a little satisfaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u126	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u128	Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u129	Thank you, President. Of course I give answers to each of your questions. The point is that you don't understand them because of the complexity of the matter itself that involves water management; that you don't understand them doesn't mean you don't answer them. [[Applause]] We have a clear commitment, which is the improvement of water quality, water management; a very clear commitment. Water management is complex, complicated, costly and often ungrateful. And if you don't ask the mayor of Pontecese with that episode in Corme, if it's not ungrateful and complex for the municipalities. When they have some spills and they have to cut water for pollution issues, won't it also be the fault of the Galician Union? Because listening to you is the fault of the whole Galician Union. And you have to know who the skills are, how you can act and how you can help. When a debugger works badly, the repercussions, of course, can be really important in water quality, but especially in many economic sectors, such as fishing and seafood. So the hydraulic infrastructures -- I'm telling you again -- are fundamental, but it's essential to keep them and manage them well. I'm sorry you don't understand this concept that answers a lot of things. For us, water management is a priority, and when there are spills, we act. I also urge you to ask the President of the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation if he has a dumping control plan, even if it's medium-similar to ours. I wish I had! You have to put things in your balance. And I also ask him: when he had poured into the Eume River, and Pontedeme remained without water, who was to help the Council of Pontedeme, was the Deputy of the Crown? You know not... who was to help and do an emergency work to ensure the water supply... seems to bother you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I had to thank us for working and helping me, helping the Town Hall of Pontedeme. Well, if you don't want to, you don't have to thank me, but at least you recognize that we've been helping, and the Crown Deputy didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Perhaps you would like to thank the Deputy of the Crown for not helping. We were there, responding, helping the Town Hall of Pontedeme. You know it well, I've come here to explain and to come in. The competences — I must know and should have made it clear — are municipal. The correct sanitation of waste water affects the quality of water. The Galician Water spill control plan is useful, and we would like the Confederation to have that same dumping control plan where you rule. The increase in discharges itself as data is not negative, because the discharges can be non-contaminated. The spills exist and they don't have to be contaminants; a debugger makes a dump. Therefore, don't lag. We have to have knowledge, we could not look at it and not tell it, and then there are very few spills. But no, we would invent them, control them and qualify them, which are contaminants and which are not. You'd have to make them up, take out a catalogue. And the gradual and constant descent was clear. There's the data: 40% year 2010, 27% in 2015, 15% in 2021. Therefore, the decline of contaminants has been gradual and gradual in recent years. And we want that 15% to go to zero, of course. But it is necessary to help municipalities in the area of sanitation and purification to achieve it. And we have to work the public administrations together. You were talking about the grading of laughter. Look: From 2010 to 2021 we were able to recover more than 14.3 million square meters of surface for shellfish. We were able to improve thirty-three production areas of bivalve molluscs. And we've also been able to make the A areas from 3.1% of the total in 2009 to 16% to today. So in a matter that's difficult and complex, we've been getting all this positive data over the last few years. We have advanced, but we have to continue to advance with the professionalization of water services. It is the only way: in addition to making infrastructures, — I insist again — to run those infrastructures and manage them in a professional and efficient way. And in that way goes the draft law of improvement in the management of the entire water cycle; which, if you are responsible and as environmentalist as it seems that it may be, if it is, I would like you to support that law, which is to help the municipalities, to redouble the reinforcement to the municipalities and that we all work together. I insist: I don't think you can sit as chair for this council, this board of Galicia, seeing what other administrations do where you rule. The Deputies are disparate; the coasts hinder the elimination of the spills to the rivers, and we would like the Confederation of Mine-Sil to have the same heel, the same help to the municipalities in terms of disposal of spills in their cup just as Galician Waters has it in their cup.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u131	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u132	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u133	We're still on the agenda. It's item 6 on the agenda, they're questions to the government. Question of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the financing of the new school in Chapela, in the municipality of Rendondela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u134	We begin with the question of Mrs. Maria Leticia Gallego Sanromán, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. In recent years the demand for public squares in children's schools has increased markedly. Family and work reconciliation is a problem in today's society, especially for women. Yesterday was Women's International Day and, no doubt, we believe that one of the fundamental elements to facilitate that family and work reconciliation is the offer of public squares in children's schools, while, as we saw in my colleague Noa's previous plea, we did not overcome the issue of co-responsibility. Well, the municipal government of Roundola has on several occasions called on the Galician board to build a child's school in Chapela, a construction that should assume the self-government executive because the skills are his. The construction on the farm of the Chapel Ginary of a child's school has been a demand of the neighborhood of Round it for years. This new childhood school would facilitate the reconciliation of work and family of the neighbors and neighbors of this village. The Socialist Parliamentary Group transferred to the Galician Council, through its 2022 autonomous budgets, the demand to which we have just mentioned, and this amendment was rejected by the Government of Galicia, which shows the slightest interest in the construction of this children's school in Chapel and the null interest in family and work reconciliation by the Government of Greece in this municipality. The Council of Ministers approved last November the distribution of EUR 670 million between the autonomous communities for the creation of more than sixty-five thousand public squares of child education from 0 to 3 years. The Galician Union will receive a total of EUR 34.845,000 for the creation of 3,417 new child education squares between 2021 and 2023. Before the arrival of Galicia of the funds approved by the Government of Spain within the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we request that it be the Council of Galicia that it finance through these funds the creation of this new school for children in Chapela, in the village of Redondela. That's why our question, Counsellor, will you go to Galicia's board to fund this new childhood school in the Town Hall of Roundola with the funds that the self-government executive of the Government of Spain will receive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u136	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u137	Thank you, President. Members and Members. Mrs. Gallego, very good morning. Today when we talk about conciliation, when we talk about support for families, Galicia is a community of reference at the national level. But being a community of reference is, of course, not the fruit of chance, but it is fruit of many years, of much effort and dedication. Many years of fulfilling our goals step by step and also fulfilling the milestone. Fitos such as the creation of children's homes, which currently offer 445 child education care squares 100 percent free of charge in our rural Galician; in addition, this year we already want to reach the 100 children's homes open and in operation in our community. Fitos such as the creation of twenty-five thousand public squares in children's schools, twice what was here in Galicia in 2009. Facts such as the freeness of childhood education in all Galician children's schools: self-employed, private, social-initiative and municipal, at this time in force since 2020 for the second and second children. It's a pioneering and national reference measure that we're going to extend from the month of September to all the children of Galicia and all the children's schools. We've also been asking the Central Government for many years, Mrs Gallego, to help finance such an important initiative for Galicia and so important for all families. In order to extend to the rest of the autonomous communities at the national level, as the Central Government has committed. A claim which, by the way, has not yet been heard, like many other requests we make from Galicia. But, therefore, here we are going to continue to be the only ones at the national level who have 100 percent free childhood education in children's schools. We are glad that European funds will serve to increase the number of public squares in children's schools that we have in our community. At this point, Galicia is the fourth community with a higher offer, but I assure you that we will make good use of these funds to continue to increase the squares. In the case of the Town Hall of Roundola, of what you ask me today, since the Galician Union we have always shown our willingness to set up a new school for children, exactly as we have done by creating the residence and creating the day centre in that same municipality, in the parish of Cesantes. So in 2018, we asked the local government to do two things: first of all, to do the necessary urban procedures to modify that classification of the plot chosen to locate the child's school, and also to draft a construction project for that new school. In 2021 we again asked the local government to take those two measures. And right now we're still waiting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u138	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u139	Thank you, President. I repeat: The Government of Spain is going to give the Greek Government 34 million euros; don't say it didn't give him anything. It's 34 million euros to make children's schools. More: with the government of Pedro Sánchez... from 2019 to 2022, Galicia will receive about twenty-seven percent more resources than in the last four years of Mariano Rajoy. [[Murmurs.]] Then I stop repeating again and again that the Government of Spain gives nothing to Galicia. Stop repeating it over and over again. [[Applause]] Stop repeating it! [[Applause]] And then, in Roundup there's only one public child's school; that's why it urgently needs this child's school. And look, he was talking about the project, the land is at his exhibition, and they know it. Yes, yes, yes, they're at your disposal. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I, if you like, then I'll show you a document from the Roundup Town Hall. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And then he talks about the project. The project will have to do it for you, because I ask you to do the whole childhood school. I mean, don't always tell the municipalities that they do things; no, you have to do them. And I also remind you that the competitions are yours. Oh, that's not your skills? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah! well, all right; so then that's another debate, if the powers are not of the autonomous community. But, well, nothing. We'll keep it that way. And I'm still saying that this child's school is needed in this county in order to reconcile working life and family life. Yes, because this county has only a public child's school. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u140	Close the question, Social Policy Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, yes, EUR 34 million to create new childhood education squares, but not a single euro to finance the freeness of all families who have to save that money because life grows, grows and grows and doesn't stop paying. [[Applause]] Mrs Gallego, what we ask of the Roundup Council — and here are all the Members of the People's Party bench and the rest of the Members, and they know very well — is exactly what we ask of the rest of the Galician municipalities when they want to build a public social services centre; exactly the same. I'm going to give you an example: the Town Hall of Arzua, the Town Hall of Guard, the Town Hall of Road, the Town Hall of Mine Rescue, the Town Hall of Cedera, whatever the political sign of all these municipalities, they've fulfilled, they've made the land available, they've drawn up the project, and the result is to have a childhood school right now. Exactly in that order, Mrs Gallego. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm asking the Town Hall of Roundla is not to buy with you nor to buy with the Galician Union. What I ask the Town Hall today is to buy from the neighbors, to keep the word. Of course, if the Roundup Council fulfills it, it gives the project and makes the land available, the Galician Union will finance this school exactly as it has undertaken. What we can't and what we're not going to do is put the car before the oxen, even if the oxen are of their political colour and the car is of Galician Union. [[Applause]] The reconciliation of personal and labour life is an objective which we are now bound to join all those who are here in this Chamber, without administrative frontiers, without political differences: the State administration, the local administration and, of course, also the autonomous administration. Because when we all talk about conciliation, it means moving forward in reconciling the families that live in cities, but also all the families that live in our country, our country. Continuing progress also implies progress in territorial cohesion; it also implies progress in social welfare; it also implies progress in equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u142	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Susana Díaz Varela and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the posters for the promotion of a radio program funded by the Union of Galicia within the Xacobeo 2021-2022 and which includes a non-existent toponymic form
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u143	Question by Mrs Noa Susana Díaz Varela of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u144	Good morning. I must admit, Mr. Rueda, that bringing this question to the full causes me tiredness and a certain smell as well. I'm tired because you're still calling for attention to the German Government in everything that has to do with our language. Tired of watching that constant concern for our greatest cultural heritage; tired of that lack of sensitivity, believe me. And I could, for a short time, but nevertheless, Mr Rueda, it is you who govern this country and therefore must comply with Law 3/1983, of linguistic normalization — by the way, approved by the unanimity of all this parliament — which states that Galician toponyms will have as the only official form the Galician; only that, there is no more. But there are more regulations — don't think —. The policy of safeguarding and protecting toponymic heritage is enshrined in the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization, adopted in 2004; in the State Law 10/2015, for safeguarding cultural and material heritage, and in the Galician Law 5/2016, of Galician cultural heritage. Therefore, it is extensive and indisputable the normative literature that defines and protects our toponymity as part of our intangible cultural heritage. For that reason, we are very surprised by too many demonstrations that have been taking place in the field—without going further we also have a recent example with this La Toja Forum, which you know well—, without the German Government taking any decisive action in this regard. That's why I smell it. You should be the greatest guarantor of law enforcement, but you're not. The last of these situations of clearly disrupting our toponymity and bringing us here today is much more serious, and look here, you have it here, because it counts on the funding of the Galician Union as you well know; in particular, it's from the Xacobeo 2021-2022. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela shows the House a sign with a photograph.]] In these recent days we have seen some posters promoting the radio program that Federico Jiménez Losantos; I don't know, I almost call it "Federic Ximénez Os Santos", for what each one does what he wants with the names, does it not seem? Well, that was a program that I had carried out since Sanxenxo's pontiff village, which included how you can see — I say — in case they have not seen it, a non-existent form like that of Sanjenjo — it says, "Sanjenjo", my God!—. [[Applause]] That this appears, of course, attached to the official logo of the Xacobeo 2021-2022. But the worst thing is that the use of that invented word is obviously not a mistake, it is intended, a provocation agreed upon by the Galician Union. We know of your sympathies and affinity for this right-wing speaker, for your media and your program, but remember that you are or should be the guarantors of the protection of our language; it's an obligation, it's not an option. So it seems unacceptable to us that the Greek Government is a party to this abuse, both because it has not been subject to control of all publicity paid with public funds and because it does not act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u146	... once known this attack.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u147	Thank you, it's next round. Thank you. [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, I was saying that this question made you stink, and it doesn't surprise me, honestly. [[Applause]] Look, it's bad luck with you Xacobeo, huh? Already, at last, I with the Block -- saving the mayor of Pontevedra, and I always say it -- I've lost all hope; they don't like it, and that's it. But you, who seemed to be hiding a little bit—except Vigo's mayor, too—for it turns out not. Now ask me a question related to Jacobeo with this hook. I don't expect them to feel good that we have -- it's true that they're different circumstances -- this trimester thirty times more pilgrims than last year's quarter, which had more than two hundred thousand at the end of last year, that reservations are -- at least forecasts -- spectacular about this year. I don't expect the Socialist Group to talk to me or any member of this government of Xacobeo on these terms. But, well, there's a proposal for improvement, this way if it's okay, this way it's going to... No, nothing like that, never, nothing, and I've been with these responsibilities for two years. You bring me here to ask me why in a program where, in fact, the promotion of Xacobeo was called Sanjenjo instead of Sanxenxo. Well, that's bad, of course. Of course, all of us who went there at the Galician Union use the only toponym that can be used, which is Sanxenxo. I don't know if what bothers you is the driver of the program... look... to me as long as you're doing a good promotion, whatever the communication professionals, that's what the program was for... I know you're going around and at the end the Xacobeo gives them the same thing, Galicia's tourist promotion gives them exactly the same thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, it was a program that had a lot of audience; I think of the highest in the story of that program...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u149	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u150	So, promotion of Galicia and Xacobeo? Got it. Use of the toponym? Not used, of course. Sanxenxo is Sanxenxo without any doubt. You have no doubt. I guess you don't, or maybe you do, and that's why you ask this question. By the way, if you want to talk about the defence of the toponyms, you were very quiet when the Council of Galicia had to defend itself together with the cultural institutions of Galicia in the face of the intention of the Asturias Government, socialist, of "Eo's laugh", instead of "Riyadh of Ribadeo". You've been very quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Ministry of Socialist Development, Socialist Government of Asturias. Just like they were very quiet when Xacobeo was introduced to Asturias; maybe it's connected, so they were quiet. Just like they were quiet when we were denied tax returns. Just like they were quiet when it took us so long to know what support the Government is willing to give to the Jacobean. All of this gives them exactly the same. You bring a hook showing that you care very little about things and that you're finally right: there are questions that should be very stinky.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u151	Thank you, thank you, finished your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u153	Replica, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u154	Mr. Rueda, rectified: it was not a shame, it was a shame. What I'm feeling right now is embarrassing. [[Murmurs.]] Shame on how this government can say it's worth more the promotion of a village, of a Jacob, than the protection of our language. [[Applause]] It's unheard of what we just heard right now in this Chamber. Unheard, unheard, unheard. [[Applause]] At least, it turns out, really, amazing that you have no control over your publicity. I don't know if from now on we're going to have to call you Mr. Wheel too; I just don't know. I mean, see if we start to have a little respect for our language. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not here to talk about Jacob. I'm here to talk about the language. But if we want to talk about Jacob himself, I don't know if you can tell us, perhaps if you can tell us, what the public budget was for this program's patronage. Because the judge in the Gürtel case considers it proven that the People's Party financed with black money, 400,000 euros, Jiménez Losantos' program, sorry, of "Ximénez Os Santos." [[Murmurs.]] So less lessons, Mr. Rueda. [[Applause]] You can do what's in your interest here. I had made it clear that his answer would not convince us, but, of course, I didn't even imagine that that would be his answer. Look, you can talk in private, just like the one who spoke Catalan, too, right? They can say "El Roblecito," they can talk about "Poentevedra" and they can talk about what they want. But what I'm telling you is that you have to be the guarantor of our rights and you also have to be the guarantor of our toponymity. [[Murmurs.]] It's embarrassing what just happened here today in this question; it's really embarrassing. And I'd also very much like to know that you will think of the team of the Culture Council after your response to which you have just bleached the most unpleasant distortion of our language... I don't know what the Popular Group is laughing at... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u155	Quiet. Mr. Vega, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u156	But by the way, a People's Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u157	Mr. Vega, be quiet. Silence! Thank you, your time is up, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u158	It wasn't over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u159	Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u160	I hadn't finished...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u161	No, I'm sorry, five seconds. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Vega, silence! I've got twelve seconds up here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what did they interrupt when they interrupted? Please, when did you interrupt? They didn't interrupt. [[Murmurs.]] If I have here now... I've seen the moment, the moment I said... Let's not complicate, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's not get complicated. Finish with a second, please. And silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u162	I just want to tell you, Mr. Rueda, that you stop lying because this parliamentary group has always been, always respecting linguistic rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u163	Thank you. Now it's over. Thank you, Mrs. Díaz. [[Applause]] A little silence, eh! In questions to the government we already know how they are, and we have to try to compensate for the times. Of course, if you interrupt, if so... these complications come in. I say it on both sides, I also say it here, there and here. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, there's here for everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's go easy. I know this makes sense, but you'll have to understand that it's up to me to moderate and manage the times. All right, let's go, come on. So it's the Vice President's closing round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Díaz, take it easy, really. Take it easy, this is first of all... you're going up your bet of "stirring" to "happiness." [[Murmurs.]] As it is often called "obese"; I'm not surprised, indeed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u165	Quiet, Mr. Torrado. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, we'll make up for it. Here we go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u166	You didn't imagine that I had been to you on a question that makes me about a misspoken expression -- I tell you from the beginning -- a misused toponymist, not by the Council of Galicia, but by a communication professional, who makes you very nervous. I'd already brought in a number of things. See how we finally talk about what we're talking about. And she's all surprised, even indignant that I'm talking about Xacobeo. Well, logically, I have to talk about Xacobeo. You ask me a question about the promotion of Xacobeo. I know that this gentleman is making you very nervous. But what are we going to do to him? To me as all the professionals of communication, and if you do a promotion work in Galicia, as many of you will come around, and you will see. And, of course, if anyone else uses a bad toponym, we'll be the first to say it's misused and to go there and use it properly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Out of this, actually, it's a shame you're worried about exactly zero that Xacobeo is an opportunity for Galicia. They're worried that things are going well because they think Jacob is doing well for the Government of the Council of Galicia; instead of thinking that it's going well for the Greeks and that we have an opportunity that we can't waste. That they worry zero about the subject of tax evasion of their government, which we are still awaiting from an answer and where we play many sponsorships. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those are important. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u167	Quiet. Quiet. Silence! I didn't want us to finish the whole thing by calling someone in order, but if I have to, I will, of course. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, on every side, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Please! Mr. Rueda, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let him worry about zero — and I will finish now — that Vigo is the only city in Europe and the world without the marking of the Xacobeo in the middle of the Holy Year. That you worry about zero -- what I told you before -- that all the promotion that decides to do the ministry that governs the same party you're doing in Asturias instead of doing in Galicia. He's worried if we're talking about toponyms, indeed, the last toponymous conflict we had in Galicia between "Ría del Eo" and "Ría de Ribadeo", where — and I insist — you were absolutely quiet. In the end, everyone talks about what matters. I care about Xacobeo, I care about Galicia; you care about someone who makes her very nervous and takes any opportunity to try to wear out a government that works to make Xacobeo go well. If you ever want to talk about Jacob, I hope you here; if you want to talk about these things, we'll still talk about shame and shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u169	Thank you. Question by Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and nine other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the information available to Junta of Galicia regarding the agreement adopted and the commitments made by the Government of Spain and Alcoa to ensure the future of the San Cibrao plant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u170	Question by Mrs Elena Candia of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u171	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, you know that this group is recurring at each plenary session, firstly, to try to avoid closing the tanks and paralyzing activity on the Alcoa plant in the Navy, and now, that this is unfortunately a reality, to interest us in the advance of the agreement and, of course, claiming that the Cubans are again active before that date of 2024. We have repeatedly said that this paralysis was very negative news for the Navy. And we also say high and clear that we see an indisputable causality relationship between that paralysis and a misappropriate and improvised energy policy by the Government of Spain. It's not too much, besides linking with that energy policy the situation of Alcoa, too, of course, what's going on and what's going on in small businesses, small businesses and, why don't you say so, families as well. This very morning I saw as a small business in my county making the difference between last January's bill of light, 825 euros, with the bill of January's bill of light this year, which rose to 2,850 euros. We still see how that price continues to increase, and we also know the consequence of this in the manufacture of aluminium, because of the huge percentage that is in the production costs of that product. We know that the Government and Alcoa have reached an agreement and we want them to be really involved in reactivating the tanks, if it is in 2022 better than in 2024, with the necessary measures to be able to count a competitive electric price and carry out those investments committed to reactivating the only plant in Spain that produces primary aluminium. Because it has to be said: it is not that they have paralysed the manufacture of aluminium in Galicia or the Navy, that the manufacture of primary aluminium in Spain has been paralysed. So, counselor, tell me about your concern, your work, your commitment all these years, and today I want you to answer to this chamber: what information does the Galician Board have on the agreement adopted and the commitments made by the Government of Spain and Alcoa to ensure the continuity of the San Cibrao plant? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Candia, not that the situation in Alcoa is worrying, but that the situation we are going through right now in Galicia, and particularly in Alcoa, is simply an industrial nonsense. It is a nonsense that the Socialist Party had allowed to paralyze the tanks and, therefore, through an energy policy that is giving its back to industry itself we are currently in a totally abnormal situation, the only country in the European Union that has really stopped producing primary aluminium for a purely energetic reason. It's therefore an energy policy that we really don't know what it answers to, but, of course, it doesn't respond to the needs of industry. We're looking at it in Alcoa and, unfortunately, we're seeing it today, too, with the situation in Megasa, with the situation in Xeal. Finally, with the situation of the intensive industry, which is faced with a government — I insist — which is developing an energy policy against the interests of the industry and putting industrial jobs in Spain in a position of extreme urgency. We, from the Galician Union, will continue to do what we said from the very first moment, which is to stand by the workers and, above all, by giving the answers and proposals that can enable us to correct this situation. We always move with concrete facts, and when we declare the strategic essential sector, when we also challenge, we support and clearly position the Employment Council in the ERE challenge, which has resulted precisely in the declaration of the employment regulation file. As we have also asked from the Galician Union to the government to allocate European funds to boost the competitiveness of the aluminium sector. In short, this government is moving by facts. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party is currently moving by unfulfilled promises all of them, which will clearly not be sufficient if this position is maintained so that the tanks can be reactivated. So the situation right now is that there is no kind of signal on the part of the government to be optimistic about the future of Alcoa. We don't even have a concretion on the bilateral contracts promised at competitive prices, nor do we have the energy thrusts of marginal technology, which are supposed to have been carried out last year. We don't know anything about this PERT announcement for electro-intensive companies, nor do we know anything about the concrete proposals that we're asking from the Galician Union, which exempt 80% of the transport fee, activates the interruptability service and also grants the maximum indirect CO2 compensation. Unfortunately, we have no news of the Spanish Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u174	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u175	Counselor, yesterday I heard a phrase that made me reflect, and I think it also applies to the case of Alcoa: socialism always destroys everything it says it wants to protect. Let's hope it doesn't come true in this case. We are aware that the cost of energy was a problem for the manufacture of aluminum always, but we also know — and I would also thank you, who explained it here today — that the Government of the People's Party has put on the table solutions that have ensured that we did not have to reach the situation that we arrived today. And that scream we all said in the streets -- some people said it with their heads, but the Navy said it frankly with the heart, because talking about Alcoa isn't just about the Alcoa factory, it's about all the added value that it brings with it -- that "The Cubans don't stop," and they stopped. And I insist and reiterate that all this is in a very direct relationship to the improvised energy policy of the Socialist Party. There's a chance in the wind sector. Undoubtedly, all of these are consultations that I'm moving you here today, which you'll have to sum up in this five-minute replica. But what I'm begging you to do is keep working as you've done so far. The maintenance of jobs is a basic priority for the group I represent today and, no doubt, support for industry, so that they continue with the best policy in a province like Lugo's, which is undoubtedly to fix population. And to intelligently address the demographic challenge there is no other way to maintain and create jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. Close the question, Mr Second Vice-President and Economics, Enterprise and Innovation Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Candia, I think the story is about to be reviewed. Indeed, Alcoa never had to shut down his activity when he ruled the People's Party in Spain. And, unfortunately, the Socialist Party, in a clearly intentional way, has led to a situation of inability to produce primary aluminium in Spain. So by not giving a solution from the energy point of view, we are currently in a situation where activity in Alcoa is paralysed. The Government of the People's Party, indeed, has always given solutions to the intensive industry: in 2012, when it validated the mail system; in 2014, when it promoted a compensation mechanism for indirect emissions costs; in 2018, when it included a EUR 150 million share in budgets. Finally, the Alcoa People's Party has always had a solution, and, unfortunately, with the Socialist Party, after four years, it was unable to establish an energy framework to ensure its viability. Therefore, we are in a situation in which Spain is the only country — I insist — that in the European Union it had to stop producing primary aluminium, because there is no energy frame to guarantee its viability. What we are waiting for is that there is a correction by the government and that the measures that must allow this reactivation can be introduced. We are committed, indeed, to working to ensure that Alcoa can access a competitive electric price through the development of wind energy. And what we're asking the government is two pretty simple things: The first is that you don't get confused, because the government also has to process wind farms of more than 50 megawatts, and therefore it feels to identify these possibilities. But the most important thing is that these bilateral contracts, those PPAs, are not the solution to Alcoa. We all know, Alcoa knows, the board knows, the government knows, that the PPA is part of the solution. And we all know that if there are no changes in the energy framework, through CO2 compensations, through reduced transport costs and through measures that can enable Spain's competitiveness and equality of conditions with respect to other European countries, if there is no such change in the energy framework, Alcoa cannot reactivate the tanks. We therefore ask the government to really sit down and start implementing measures that guarantee this competitiveness from the point of view of energy costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u178	Thank you. Question by D. Pedro Puy Fraga and seven more by G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece with regard to the distribution of European funds which is being carried out by the Government of Spain and its impact on Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u179	Question by Mrs Marta Nuvoa of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u180	Thank you, President. Welcome, Mr. Vice President. The People's Parliamentary Group is obliged today to bring a matter of vital importance at a time, ladies and gentlemen, as we see again as next to a profound social humanitarian crisis, a tremendous economic shock immediately strikes. Unfortunately, Russia's invasion of Ukraine puts our already damaged economy in a more worrying situation. And it's just that we started in 2022 just as we ended up in 2021, with a price of unabsorbed light, well over the 200 euro threshold the megavatio/hour, and I'm not going to talk about the 500 euros yesterday or today; with an IPC over 7%, the highest in Europe; with an unsustainable fuel price. All this, ladies and gentlemen, before the start of the Russian invasion in Ukraine. Because, Vice-President, we do not doubt that the Central Government will be shielded from ascribing the state of the ill-treatment of the Spanish economy in the war, and everyone knows it's not. The lamentable state of the Spanish economy is prior to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Unfortunately, once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a delicate moment with the worst government in history, which puts Spain in a worse situation than the rest of the European countries. Therefore, the opportunity of the European Funds Next Generation can only be appropriate. Since the European Union announced the launch of a recovery plan to address the economic and social effects of the pandemic, May 2020, the Greek Government has been working with experts and the productive and social fabric to articulate a transforming strategy for a more greener, more innovative, more modern and more coherent Galicia, socially and territorially. In this sense, the Galician Union has on several occasions transferred its candidacy to the Central Executive, a candidacy made up of solid projects and a key tractor effect on the strategic sectors of our economy, such as automotive, forestry, agri-food, personalized medicine, aerospace or circular economy. It's a bet on public-private collaboration as an engine to drive Galicia's reindustrialization, where we play a lot, but which, unfortunately, remains unanswered. A situation different from that observed in other autonomous communities, which receive commitments and direct funding from the Government of Spain without any kind of call. We all saw the central government announcements of battery plants in Catalonia or Valencia before opening the call of the corresponding PERT. A complete disincentive, ladies and gentlemen. The slowness and arbitrariness with which the Executive of Madrid is distributing the European Funds Next Generation therefore severely impede economic and social recovery, as it does not guarantee a fair and equitable sharing between territories, nor does access to pemen and self-employed companies, which are ultimately the ones that must create more and better jobs. And for all this, Mr Second Vice-President, we would like you to give us the assessment of the Government of Greece on the distribution of European funds which is being carried out by the Government of Spain and its impact in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Response from Vice-President Second and Economic, Enterprise and Innovation Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, indeed, the Russian invasion of a sovereign, free and democratic state like Ukraine deserves, of course, all the response and all the rejection from the point of view of the position of the European Union itself, Galicia and all the Spaniards. We have, of course, that ethical duty to help the Ukrainian people with all the necessary means and without any kind of fairness. I am sorry in that sense that once again the Galego Nationalist Block is at the extremes and therefore in indifference when really a country that is suffering from this vision and this breakdown of freedoms because it does not have the unanimous support for that lack of commitment from a parliamentary group. In any case, this situation, which is a situation of enormous hardness, cannot be an excuse from the point of view of the functioning of the economy in Spain. I say in concrete terms that the Government should give an answer about the elements that are currently looting our economy. I am speaking in concrete terms of inflationary pressure, with an IPC of 7.4%, above almost two points from the rest of the eurozone countries. Also from an energy vulnerability derived from erroneous energy policy decisions, by paralysing thermal power stations against the criteria of the other countries at European level. And in particular, a government that is making tax increases its way of understanding government; hence, with rising taxes, taxes, quotas to social security, which are, as I say, ruining the economic situation. And in that context, of course, European funds are an opportunity, but the Government should be self-advised as to how it understands the execution of these European funds. The funds are not owned by the Government of Spain, they are not owned by the Socialist Party and Podemos. The funds are from the Europeans, who are being indebted precisely so that they can be an opportunity. We're also not self-employed, we're state-ordered, we're state-owned, and therefore we have competences to develop. And, of course, companies and self-employed people are not enemies of government as they seem to be moving. We therefore hope that, indeed, the position at this time of the Spanish Government, marked by centralism, discretion and slowness in the execution of funds, can be corrected and that funds from the Government will be a solution and not a problem as the Government has taken us now from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u184	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Count. The reality is that it is incomprehensible the sectarian action of the Socialist Government with Galicia on the subject of funds in all fields. For all of us, ladies and gentlemen, it is known that we have been harmed by the allocation of funds covered by more than 600 million euros, and now they are doing it again with the adjudication of industrial and energy projects. And it is incomprehensible how Mr Sánchez's government owns and builds itself up as the owner of the economic funds which the European Union has destined for the recovery of the territories of our country. The funds Next Generation, ladies and gentlemen, I am not from the Government of the State, I am, as you have said, Mr Vice-President, of all citizens, who, besides seeing how the Central Government does not represent them, also have to see how neither the opinion is taken into account nor the competence of the autonomous community in industrial matters. Mr. Vice-President, since the Socialists arrived at Moncloa, we see how the Galician industry has suffered ongoing attacks from the central government, with an energetic drowning, especially with regard to the electrointensive industry, which in three years has not resolved, but has worsened, having the companies that stop their production because they are not competitive. And today we see how the cost of light has increased for these companies in more than nine hundred percent. First, it was Alcoa La Coruña, then Alcoa San Cibrao, then Ferroatlantica and now Megasa. And we're not going to talk about the small businesses and families that are scared of what they're paying for and the dramatic future that's expected. Now, they'll find out why this problem is caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. First it was the coward and then we have to wait for the European Union to re-solve Mr Sánchez' energy problem. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to defend the whole industry and fight all for its development and put forward public-private collaboration to achieve the best results; of course, to count on autonomous communities, in this case, in the distribution of European funds, and also to do so to the best projects rather than sectarianly. I take advantage of this second shift, Mr. Conde, to ask you to speak in more detail about the projects proposed by the Galician Union, also of the execution of funds in our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Close the question, second vice president and economic, business and innovation advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Novoa, it would be good for the Government of Spain to think a little bit about how it is acting on European funds. From the autonomous communities we understand that the funds are an opportunity, and the Government is understanding that it is an instrument of political making; that's the difference. And since he doesn't want to consent and he doesn't want to establish co-governance mechanisms with autonomous communities, surely the Government should be a little more humble and listen to what the institutions tell him, and at best he could react. The Government should hear how the Banco de España has pointed out that the impact of European funds on Spanish gross domestic product in 2021 was only 0.3%, when 1% was planned. The government should listen to COE and how Spanish entrepreneurs warn that aid calls are poorly designed and that the private company is accessing only 2% of the funds. This isn't what the Galician Union says. Spanish businessmen say. But the Government should also listen to the European Commission, which is moving to it that it is unable to manage European funds at the same time and Feder 2021-2027 funds, which, unfortunately, are paralyzed because the Government has not closed the agreement and the operational programme. Finally, the Government should reflect on how it is acting with European funds and therefore stop doing politics with the funds, because the funds are not from the government, the funds are destined for economic recovery. We're talking about slow execution of funds because more than half of the funds planned for the year 2021 have not been executed. We're talking about slowness because only three billion euros have really reached the real economy. And we're talking about slowness because PERTE's present is still a promise more than a fact. But we also talk about centralism, curious centralism, in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Centralism because until now autonomous communities are only running 28%. We're talking about centralism because only eight out of every ten euros have been distributed at sectoral conferences, where autonomous communities are acting as management orders, because they don't give us any management capacity. We're talking about industrial centralism because the government, even if it doesn't have the skills, has raised 100 percent of the funds, leaving the autonomous communities with no capacity to act on the productive fabric. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u187	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da Rosana Pérez Fernández and four other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the eradication of inequality between men and women in the sea sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u188	Question by Mrs Rosana Pérez of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, a lot if you've talked about equality between women and men in recent times. So much so that even the candidate in pectore himself the president of the People's Party of Spain and deputy in this Chamber solemnly stated yesterday that equality is in our hands, or that the Union is preparing a new law that will incorporate a status of rural women and the sea. Some women, those of the sea, who have recently been part of the pandemic, of a sector that has been declared essential, and that it has not even been worth them to advance in the conquest of labor rights for those who have other workers and, above all, other workers. A pandemic that brought her home to the care of her children and people dependent on many of them and who contributed to her confinement even more in discrimination and marginalization. The claim of collectives such as those of the grids, seamstresses or fellows, so that they are recognized as professional diseases the derivatives of the harsh conditions in which they perform their work or that they are applied by a reduction coefficient that enables them to advance their retirement are rights that they have been waiting for years. In the 21st century, sailors on foot continue to have a lower reducing coefficient than those of their fellow seafood men to the fleet. And yet the shameful case of the ramparts is still in force, which they have not even recognized the mesmerger coefficient of the shellfishers, and which they are allowed to be co-workers of the confrries and not partners in full right. Many of the jobs women do in the sea are still invisible, unremunerated and unrecognizable, unrecognizable in the quote regime and no contract. Tasks that many women in the sea perform within family businesses and that do not count as jobs and keep them in a submerged and irregular economy. Achieving all these invisible women in the sector is necessary to achieve real equality. It is necessary to know the data, the deficiencies, to define what is the true starting situation in each subsector in order to implement concrete measures. And for that, it's necessary for administration to create the necessary tool. Today we unanimously approve the creation of the observatory, hope that the Greek Government will now meet and carry it out. Finally and ultimately, Counsellor, on which actual data, on which studies is based the Government of Greece to design budgetary policy and to take concrete measures that eradicate inequality in the sea?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u191	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pérez. Galicia can't understand without its sea and without the women of that sea. Galician women have always been linked to the sea, and thus it is unquestionable the role whatever their scope of work: trawlers, sailors, sailors, merchants, shipowners, transformers, administrators or managers of fishing companies. Since the Galician Union we are convinced that it is essential to understand its value, to promote its visibility and to promote real and effective equality of opportunity. So achieving the social, economic and institutional recognition that women deserve from the sea is a priority in our autonomous community. The data for women in the Galician Sea Sector is public, accessible, transparent and objective. So, we can see that on foot, 71.8% are women; in the bat industry, 17.6% of the sector are women; the female presence in fish farms on land reaches 30%; more than five hundred women work in the extractive fishing area, 4.6% of the sector; female employment in the industry and marketing of marine products exceeds 70%, in some companies even more than 96%; today we have 56% more female representation in the cabers and general meetings of the confrries. As we know, on this path there is a key term: professionalism. Professionalization involves being able to direct public actions so that women's full and equal integration into the labour system is facilitated. And so we have two clear examples of this process in Galicia: the marshes and the ditches. The influence manifested by the autonomous administration and the associative movement of the women of the sea was decisive in their professionalization. We need to keep going. So, our goal is to support women in incorporating economic-fishing decision-making structures and to promote the employability and professional development of sea-women as an engine for economic growth and dynamization. Mrs Pérez, we have laws, regulations, analyses, diagnoses, studies, data. The problem is not the data, because we have it; the problem is not to have the support that our women need from the sea. And I am referring to the necessary support from the Government of the State — as you have said, in the whole study of the reduction coefficients — and also from the European institutions, especially from the European Parliament and from all the groups that make up it. I really hope that both the Government of the State and the Community institutions will understand the role of women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u193	...of the sea. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u194	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pérez Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u195	Counselor, you will understand that at this point the words or many of the words that are spoken to us from the German Government are no longer enough for us. You have just criticized actions or lack of actions better than any other government. But I ask you directly, Counselor, about issues and actions carried out by the Council of the Sea on a matter of exclusive competence. I was talking about getting decent working conditions for all the women who work at sea, and now I am asking you, in particular, a question which is of their sole competence: how is it possible, Counsellor, that today, for example, they are talking about facilitating such important training for the women of the sea, and that today — I insist — people who want to form themselves in a center of title of the Union have to meet the requirement of having a relationship with the sea or — they have a good hearing — "to be an autonomous fisherman's or a sailor's husband". Your Honor, this is a competition from the German Government, it had to be modified for many years. How is it possible, Your Honor, that today you tell us that there are data and that they are public and transparent? That data that you just gave, in fact, we know any of us, is accessible. But I was talking to you about all those women who are also part of the sea sector and don't have a professional recognition, which doesn't exist. There are many women working in family businesses, recognized by the law-enforcement decree of equality, in these activities, on the list of activities that make this legislative decree, that work in family companies and that do absolutely everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u197	...but they don't appear anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Fernández. Close the question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pérez, welcome to the club to acknowledge the professionalization capacity of women in the sea world. I'm not going to allow either you or the PSOE government, with which you do government everywhere you can, to teach us lessons from nothing. I'm going to tell you that in the 1990s, when we started the process of professionalization of seafood women, you and your PSOE colleagues said that there was no need to professionalize seafood, they said that seafood was a complementary activity. In fact, when we imposed the need to contribute to social security, you were in charge of taking certain groups out of the street to prevent women from being able to contribute to social security. It's more: they've come to suggest that they've paid for hours. While since the People's Party we have been working with women since the 1990s, and they have made the decision to professionalize, and we have accompanied on that path. We have enabled aid so that the seamstresses could contribute to social security and have the right, as they have today, to have a social security. [[Applause]] And we work with the fences. This was founded in Spain, for the first time in Galicia, the Galaga Federation of Redeiras. And today both the nets and the shellfishers, as well as all the women working in the different sectors and sub-sectors of fishing, are represented at the Galician Fisheries Council by the councillor's decision, which is the one that presides over that body. And we're working with them to get them more and more rights. We ask the Government of the State to feel working with all sectors and fisheries sub-sectors to review the reduction coefficients. As far as training is concerned, don't confuse us, because we worked with the backs, and it was the very ones who decided what kind of training and what minimum requirements would be required for this collective to be able to be redeployed. And when we talk about courses that can be financed with the FEMMP, it is indeed mandatory for people attending this course to be either fishermen or families of fishermen. But that is not obvious if all the lines of training that we have both the Employment Council and the Council of the Sea are available to all women who want to be trained to work in the different subsectors of the sea. Now, you are delighted with life because since yesterday was Woman's Day from the world of the sea, come here and present this question. But I wonder where you are when they're really necessary. Do you think they can defend the women of the world at sea when their representative in the Green Group of the European Parliament, when we were asking for funds from the seafarers on foot, voted against because they said they didn't need it, that they already had the funds from the SURE? Is that what you think it's defending? Is it to defend when you supported a government that didn't even want to recognize the shellfish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u201	...in the catalogue of qualified professions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u202	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u203	Is that defending or defending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u205	...work how we work to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u206	Thank you, Counselor, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u207	Thank you. Question by Da Iria Carreira Pazos and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece regarding the situation in which the young women in Greece are faced with the labour market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u208	Question by Mrs Iria Carreira Pazos, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Yesterday was March 8, Women's Day. Yesterday, and only yesterday, big companies and certain political parties changed the purple color, the corporate color, and filled social networks with messages of congratulation and faint demands. But for the BNG on March 8th, it's a day of struggle that doesn't end when the clock gives twelve at night, it's a struggle that goes on and on and on because inequalities don't disappear from day to day. And we're talking about inequalities because if we look at the different indicators that analyze the situation of the labour market in our country, we can see how the situation of the Greek women is very complex, even more so if we look at the situation of the younger women. The rate of activity remains a difference between men and women almost nine percent of the average. The age range where this difference is smaller is that of 25 to 34 years, where it is 3.5%. This difference shows that the lowest presence of women in employment is constant and persistent and worse at increasing age. Besides, it's worrying because it doesn't even correct today with the highest level of education women have. If we meet the rate of timeliness in employment, that of women is 27%, with a 4.6% difference compared to men. By the way, one point: the timeliness of women in the public sector is 33.5%. 95% of the contracts signed by women in 2021 were of a temporary nature, a third of them did not reach the week. The pandemic of the vault was a job shredder. We weren't able to recover the contracts that were in 2019, and the ones that were recovered are worse, more temporal and more precarious. The pay gap also continues to be worrisome, even more so in younger ages. Women between the ages of 26 and 35 bear a salary gap of almost 13 percent, but if we continue to lower, between 18 and 25 years, the wage gap is 25%, and in children under 18 years of age it is 30%. Another indicator that presents an alarming difference in youth is the difference that exists in the quote time. Children under the age of 25 are already starting from a one-month difference with men of the same age. This difference is growing over time because of the impact they have on women, for example, care jobs, children's or older people's. Differences in the quote time but also in the basis, because those same women under the age of 25 bear a difference of 195 euros. Unbalances in the contribution that ultimately provoke the situation we already know when women retire, by moving the pay gap to pensions. And one last point to end this first intervention: girls are mostly at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion, 29% of girls are in this situation. We can conclude that girls have less access to employment and when they get their jobs under worse conditions with worse wages.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u211	The question is obvious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u213	What is the Government going to do to reverse the situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u215	Thank you, President. Mrs. Carreira, I would only ask you in the next intervention is to know what the sources are from where you get that data, the source or the source. I'll tell you what I use for the data I'm going to give you now, which is the General Social Security Treasury, which is the State Employment Service, which is the Tax Agency and which is the INE and the IGE. You say you've lost fifteen thousand jobs in Galicia in one year, and it turns out the unemployed have come down in Galicia in the last year in 30,719 people. Unemployment has been reduced since the start of the Galician pandemic by seven percent, and we are at top three points from the state's fall. Memberships. He claims that social security affiliations dropped by 10% in Galicia; it turns out that they grew by 3.2%, that is, by 32,117 more affiliations in Galicia in the last year. They say there is temporality, precarious work. One third of the new contracts have a maximum duration of one week, and it turns out that the exact data from these sources indicate that the indefinite recruitment in Galicia is rising by 166.8%, and the undefined recruitment by 14.73%. Women in the Italian labour market. Social Security membership data, said the president today in his speech. In Galicia there were never so many women affiliated with Social Security: five hundred thousand; 499,005 women affiliated in January in particular. Upon occupation according to the annual measures of the 2021 EPA above men; women rose to 8.68 in occupation, men to 0.40. Galicia occupies the first position throughout Spain in the proportion of affiliations between women and men; we're at 48.9%, the state average is at 46%. In indefinite contracts, 73% of Welsh employees have an indefinite contract, the state average being 72%. But besides, four out of every five occupied Greeks have full-time contracts. 86% of the occupied Galicians have been in the current company for over a year. Wage and gender fair — last available data — Galicia, 9.9; Spain, 11.9; Europe, 14.1. So I don't really understand where the data is coming from. Data from young women in Greece: Galicia closed the month of February with 9,727 women under the age of 30 unemployed, the lowest figure in the entire historical series. Almost half, 49.28 % of the new jobs in 2021 were women under 30 years of age. 66% of the 2021 female unemployment rate corresponds to women under 30 years of age. Well, I'll continue later on in my second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u216	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u217	Thank you, President. Mrs. Lorenzana, falling into self-comprehensiveness will never help to improve. We have the same sources, but you only like statistics so that you can reason, even if you have to omit some part of reality. The pay gap, whatever it is, is illegal. Comparing to the average state is not positive. The occupancy rate, although increased, continues to be lower than it was in 2019. We've also seen in the data the decline of the stopped population, but it doesn't occur because it increases occupation, but because it decreases the active population. The Greek girls are packing up to look for fortune outside. Because even if they deny emigration, it's still going on between the young people of Greece. Data show a reality that is worrying: gender differences in the world of work are far from eradicated. And, on the contrary, we see that there is a fall in the quality of employment that women access, with a greater number of temporary contracts, but also with a higher prevalence of contracts that are not the full day. Besides, youth in this country spends more than 60 percent of the average wage to pay the rent, and we pay more expensive light every day, more expensive fuels and the shopping basket also rises. The most precarious conditions women suffer at work, such as the highest timeliness, the highest number of part-time trips and the greatest rotation in employment, are directly translated into lower wage incomes for workers; in Galicia, one in three girls is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. And in view of this, the new generations of the People's Party that they are dedicated to is questioning feminist policies on social networks. Every minute that passes without Mr. Núñez Fesóo disallowing these defamations, every minute that this message follows on social networks is a clear positioning on the side of Machism and the most powerful ultra-right, which considers feminist policies not necessary. We have made it clear that only feminism will move the world forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Iria Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u219	We're not going to be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u221	Are you going to stay?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u222	Thank you. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u223	Thank you, President. Look, really, he's a surrealist. He says he's talking about the same sources I'm talking about. It's just that the sources are unique, they are the ones, they're not about making up a series of data that you... You say, women have precarious jobs, women have temporary jobs. Where do you get the data? The data from the Social Security Treasury I'm giving them here. So, really, it's surrealizing the mix of concepts: the basket of purchase, the rise of energy, for this reason there is temporality in women's contracts. By the way, it must also be the fault of the Government of the Council of Galicia for the rise in the price of energy and the basket of purchase. It mixes EPA data, occupation, busy women, active women... I still don't know, really, what's the source. I'm telling you again: Treasurer, INE, IGE, Tax Agency, Employment Service. You look like, I don't know, who invents the data and suddenly marks them here. And I don't understand very well why he's going to mix the feminist policies of the People's Party with the other parties, because — as I know — here I'm not representing Vox. I don't understand why you do or suggest that the policies of the People's Party are not feminists. The president told you this morning, and I think I said it clearly. [[Applause]] Then I won't let you do that, either. Vox is not represented here, I don't represent Vox. And you have spoken to me according to the feminist policies of the People's Party, which are feminist policies and which in no way resemble Vox's policies. So let's see if we talk exactly because in all your intervention you're dedicated to criticizing Vox's policies — which aren't my own — and saying a series of data that I don't know where they come from, I really don't know where they come from. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It's very easy to come here and talk in general about losing female jobs, losing jobs in general, lowering Treasury affiliations, when that's radically uncertain. This doesn't mean you don't have to do a lot of things to improve the labour market, doesn't mean you don't have to do a lot of things to improve the general gender gap across the labour market. But what you can't come here to say is that there's a higher gender gap in Galicia to the rest of Spain, or higher in Galicia than in Europe, because it's not true. It is a very complex problem — we say this morning — that depends on a lot of factors and that is spread throughout the world, but it turns out that Galicia is lower than in the middle of the rest of Europe. So at least you recognize that something has to do with government policies. I'm the only one telling you that we're going to continue working with clearly feminist policies because we're a feminist government, but a feminist government within the rationality that we need to seek feminism in employment, actually working for the training of women, working for active employment policies that affect the better employability of women and also of Thursdays, with that employment plan that we have for women, with that employment plan we have for Thursdays, and also modernizing employment services with training or teletraining through virtual classrooms — who know we've put in motion, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u225	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia on the evaluation of the Employment and Equality Council on compliance with the measures of the VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u226	Question by Mrs. Cristina Sanz of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u227	President. Good morning, Madam Employment and Equality Counsellor. From the People's Parliamentary Group we would like to thank you for your presence in this plenary to answer this question and also to thank you for the intense work done by you and all your team that directs the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year for equality, and in particular for the celebration of this plenary, in which many initiatives of your competence are being dealt with. And with regard to the question, equality of opportunity is recognized in our Constitution and also in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, and its guarantee is a duty of all public authorities. In that sense, and as it cannot be otherwise, the Greek Government has made a strong commitment to the Greek society in favour of equality of rights and opportunities between women and men. A responsibility that has been materializing in different tools, among which I will cite for its special relevance the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, on which it has already given due consideration in the previous interpellation this morning; the Protocol for the Prevention of the Treatment of Sexual Harassment at Work; the Women's Employment Plan, which was referred to as an initiative discussed yesterday afternoon and which has a budget for this exercise of 34.3 million euros, which will be developed through eight programmes, or the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men 2017-2020, as a strategy planning tool to pursue this period by the Government of Greece. Specifically, through this Strategic Plan public policies have been linked with the aim of consolidating the achievements of recent times, strengthening measures aimed at eliminating the various gender gaps and laying the foundations for further progress in equality between women and men. In addition, it should be noted that the development of the VII Strategic Plan was guided by the principle of gender transversality and the principle of effective equality of women and men, as demonstrated by the numerous actions designed in their future. Madam Counsellor, after the duration of this plan, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group considers it necessary to obtain a clear and detailed X-ray of its execution, as well as to know which points of improvement or proposals for action will lead to a new edition of this Strategic Plan. For this reason, we have asked you the following question: what is the assessment by the Employment and Equality Council of compliance with the measures of the VII Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities between Women and Men 2017-2020? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u229	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs. Sanz. Indeed, the work of the German Government in promoting equality has been materialized over these years with these seven equality plans. The first one was born in 1992 with a vocation and a joint and cross-sectional work within all institutions, all administrations and also society itself. In particular, this VII plan, as you ask, has counted on an budget of 390 million euros, and of the 253 proposed measures have been implemented 216, i.e. the result of compliance with the plan is 85%. The plan had three axes, and I'm going to tell you what was executed in each of these chapters. The first chapter was the integration of the principle of equality into the policies and actions of the Union. There were forty-three performances here, and the degree of execution is 91%. Basically, this includes training on equality and also the inclusion of gender transversality in budgets, as well as the participation of women and men in consultation bodies. I mean, it's actions that give rise to a joint governance with a gender perspective. In the second chapter there were strategic areas for equality; it had one hundred and sixteen actions and 80% of these measures are completed. Basically, there were thirty-two measures in terms of well-being and quality of life, twenty-two measures in terms of education and then twenty-two measures in terms of employment and innovation. Here we can highlight all the work that has been done to sensitize and educate the staff of the network of children's schools from 0 to 3 years old, the development of teaching materials in educational centres and the introduction of subjects with a gender perspective and equality in education centers in Galicia. Also, promotion measures, women's entrepreneurship, such as the Emega, I'm executive, I'm growing together and the CIM support program itself, the information centres for women. And the third chapter, which is the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, has an execution of 93% of the total of the fifty-seven measures I had planned. Here, basically — as you know — are all measures of awareness, of gender-based violence education, and also measures of comprehensive treatment and intervention with women victims of violence, as well as with children and children. We are now working on the eighth plan, which will come to light this year too, and essentially valuing all these measures, which we consider, as I say, the Government which has a high execution and therefore is positive the assessment we make of the execution of the plan. But we have to see also which were the best results and which we should modify and, of course, implement other news in this one which will be the VIII Plan in Galicia on Equal Opportunities. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u231	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you for your reply and for your commitment that the German Government daily shows with equal opportunities between women and men. Having said this, we would like to know more specifically how many actions have materialized the development of the VII Strategic Plan and, as a result, what valuation makes the Government of Greece of the development of this plan. This plan, to our judgment, has contributed to the goals for all expected to achieve a fairer and more egalitarian Greek society. And since today at this session of the Plenary of Parliament both the President of the Council of Galicia and you have advanced the objective of presenting throughout this same year what will be the eighth edition of this plan, we would like to know some of the master lines that will refuse to update this instrument, as well as, if possible, what are the axes on which it will be structured and the guiding principles on which the new Strategic Plan of Equality will be based. Counsellor, the People's Party's commitment to equal opportunities for women and men is indisputable, unquestionable and firm. In fact, for more than thirty years now, a Government of the People's Party has been a pioneer in providing the Greek society with normative instruments for women. However, as you said, there is much way to go and we want to do it by counting on the whole of Greek society. Because in the defence of equality we all have a place, it's not something like a political party or an ideology. Equality is in the hands of politicians, families, men and businesses. The People's Party believes in real equality, and we support it with appropriate laws and policies, but also with a militant commitment to women. We are free women who decide how we think and where we want to direct our lives. And on that point, it's all right to count on the Council of Galicia as the main ally. I'm waiting for your answer and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Sanz. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u233	Thank you, President. For the seventh plan of what we're talking about in particular had 253 shares and those were executed 216 to reach those percentages that told him of execution. As for that VIII Plan in Galicia on equal opportunities for women and men, the plan will be a 2022-2027 plan, and I can point out two basic issues that are being worked on in the elaboration of this plan: The first is that the plan has a transversal axis, which aims to respond to the new needs that arose from the triple crisis of the coward: health, social and economic. We believe that this cannot be otherwise, that confinement and cowardice themselves have given rise to completely different issues, since — we speak today — responsibility for care, domestic chores, difficulties also in conciliation, teleworking itself and how to incorporate the gender perspective into telework, etc. So this will undoubtedly be one of the axes or a cross-sectional and differential axis with respect to the previous plan. Secondly, we are working under four guiding principles of this plan, which are basically located in the lines of the previous ones, that is, in transversality, but not only within the Government of the Union, but we also understand that in all social and economic agents and with all society. So it starts from a first principle, which is conceivable equality as an engine of social and economic progress. We believe that all economic and social development in Galicia must go hand in hand with eradicating gender inequalities. Secondly, to reinforce that gender transversality of what he was talking about, that is, he has to deal — as we are already doing — with an absolutely cross-sectional plan where all the departments of Galicia have to contribute, execute and say. Thirdly, this collaboration must also be interinstitutional; that is to say, we must seek alliances and synergies that favor the achievement and settlement between all institutions and among all administrations in the field of equality. Fourthly, participation and civil co-responsibility; that is, the plan has to be based on an objective, which is that all social agents, that all women, but also men participate and, in some way, are included in that plan design. That, as we said, has been working on eight equal opportunities plans in Galicia for the year 1992, and now we have launched a new equality law. We believe, however, that the commitment of the Government of Galicia and the commitment of society in Galicia to equal opportunities is shown. And we're going to continue working on that line with that new law, that new plan of co-responsibility and conciliation, and this VIII plan in Galicia of equal opportunities for men and women. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u234	Thank you, Counselor. Da María del Carmen Aira Díaz, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to ensure the life of women on equal footing in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u235	Question by Mrs Maria del Carmen Aira Díaz of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u236	Thank you. The situation of women in rural areas bears burden with the situation of women in the cities, but in addition, it is aggravated by issues specific to the characteristics of rural living, which in Galicia are the dispersion, the lack of means of transport that vertebrate the places among them, the poor population in which most of them are over 60 years old and the most characterized by masculinization. But it is also conditioned by the patriarchal vision that develops in rural areas and infiltrates society in general. In these living spaces, it's very easy to perpetuate the roles of gender, which means that women have an important over effort when they want to have their own professional life, and, if not, what they live is a dependency situation. The role of care that gives us society, which unfortunately in many cases we also grant ourselves, increases the penocity of life in rural life for women if they don't have services that, basically, are essential. Services that are the foundation for the establishment and maintenance of women in rural areas with a minimum quality of life and to help alleviate the overload that assumes the set of their roles. In rural issues fundamental to life normally for women, access to personal autonomy, the economy, the company, and for something as simple as not being able to move by the absence of public transport and difficulty having access to driving or car, or many other matters. Between 2035 and 2064, ninety-six Greek municipalities could have zero inhabitants. This depopulation is already isolated from women today and conditions their quality of life. But only with its incorporation into the rural world can this almost become a reality. And for this it must be possible for those who are not incorporated into the co-titlerity of the holdings to do so, who may have their own resources, which contain with support to reduce the isolation a little bit and make effective the co-responsibility. The solution for rural women is not that they increase the size of their businesses or farms, but that the institutions recognize their productive peculiarities and their way of doing things. Equality does not necessarily force women's institutions into producing according to male models. It's male models that have to abandon this condition to include women's way of life and productivity. It's hard to change CAP policies managed mainly by men or women with male conceptions, but it's also difficult for autonomous policies to fall into our women's hands. As it has already been shown with the help of the vault, which excludes exploitation under ten heads, probably the vast majority of these women's reinvented. That is why we are asking today: what effective measures will the Government of Greece take ahead of the status of rural women to ensure women's life on equal terms in this environment and how much budget will it be allocated to them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u237	Thank you. Response from Employment and Equality Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u238	Thank you, President. Mrs. Aira, I agree very much with the general approach you are making. Of course, I agree that there is a need for a social, demographic and economic improvement in rural Galician, and that this has to be coupled with the role of women in growing and consolidating rural opportunities. If I'd like to facilitate a fact that I think it's revealing, because one of the projects we have in the council is rural entrepreneurship poles. Next April will be inaugurated the first in Verín, which will treat the entire geographic area of the oransasian depressions and lands of the Sil. And I think these entrepreneurship projects are especially suitable for women. In particular, they know that in Galicia we are the first state-level community in female entrepreneurship; this is very related to rural entrepreneurship and, of course, also to cooperatives. We just closed down the social economy strategy, which reached 2021, and we noticed that one of the strengths of this strategy was to get the same number of women to promote cooperatives as men. We left in 2019 with 37% and closed the year 2021 with 50.79% women promoting cooperatives. With which we believe that women have much to do in rural entrepreneurship and that, therefore, these rural entrepreneurship poles can be a good formula for advising them, to support them economically, and also give them the training and technological transparency they need to be part of — as I said — of that growth in Galician rural areas. On the other hand, we understand that we have to work on women's training, and especially on improving digital capacities for rural women. We now have a programme, which is equipped with EUR 10.4 million, to strengthen digital skills, and we hope to reach 20,000 women in rural areas. This is thanks to the virtual campus that we started last year and that allows precisely new possibilities for training on rural borders and makes it more accessible and more flexible. We are in the process of training, and we also understand very important that training is a certified, regulated training. That's why we're recognizing professional skills acquired by work experience. We did it last year and we did it again this year with the vaults and also with the accreditation of the non-formal experience of non-professional care of minors. And on the other hand, we're working on the associationism of rural women. We continue to support the most representative federations of rural women and also support the leadership of rural women with programs such as Growing Together, especially directed to cooperative societies and workers. And finally, we're still working on employment programs, specifically for women in rural areas. It's 4.8 million euros that we hope to go to a thousand hundred women in programs integrated in this exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u239	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Aira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u240	Thank you. It's very significant, Counselor, that on the page of the Middle Rural Council, there is not a single new woman's day that refers to the celebration of March 8th. Any mention of this is confined to the Secretariat of Equality; women's things only talk about women. We live at a time when feminism or causes rejection or all or we are all feminists and we are for the woman; Mrs. Lourenzana too, and I understand Mr. Feijóo this morning that he does not. But, well, declarations of intent on the importance of women are continuous. [[Applause]] This is what is collected in the Secretariat of Equality page, but there is no report to any content or budget. I appreciate the data you give, and since I didn't give them I can't disagree, as happened to my companion Iria. All measures taken must be coherent, coherent and evaluated, as if already said this morning, and they do not seem to be. In any case, they're not enough. The situation of women in rural areas has social and cultural but also economic causes. The figure of 3,000 euros a year that Comrade Albert gave probably corresponds largely to rural women. Therefore, the measures they implement will not be sufficient if they do not have clear objectives and agree with the problems and an economic allocation according to the objectives. It is essential to resolve the issue of wage divide, which in rural areas is more than 50 percent on CAP aid, access to sufficient resources to ensure co-titlement, have the opportunity to be equal in the governing bodies of different organizations, even being present on parity in GDRs, so that our projects can be valued according to merit and from a gender perspective. If rurals don't improve social, demographic and economically, the woman won't do it within them, and in order to change this situation first there will have to be a political will to address it and put the resources needed to change issues that are not right. And, to finish, it must be said that society cannot bear the responsibility of achieving its own equality in women, because it is society as a whole that has the obligation to guarantee rights for all its members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u242	...and more if they're related to something as fundamental as life is equal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Aira. Close the question, Employment and Equality advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u244	Thank you, President. Look: if you think you're a feminist, I'm talking to you here about a series of measures, about feminist programs, about employment, about training, about entrepreneurship in rural areas, and you answer that you don't think there's no commitment on the part of the Rural Council because there's no reference on the specific website, which is unique to the Council of the Middle Rural 8M, if this is the level, and you really tell me that you're not a feminist at Galician Council because the Rural Council doesn't refer to 8M, home!, I think we're serious. What he says about my intervention is that the measures must be cohesive and integrated, but they are not. I can't answer this because you didn't explain why you consider them to be uncohesive and integrated. I believe that, of course, they are cohesiond and integrated from the point of view that they adhere to all employment policies, they also touch the instruments regarding employment service and training for employment, and they are cross-sectional and integrated into all or all departments of the Union. But — I repeat — as you do not say to me why you understand that they are not cohesive or integrated measures because I cannot answer you. Then go back to the previous question and say that the data they gave before probably referred to the rural women. Well, if they were referring to rural women, they had to say it. In any case, I don't understand very well, because the data is what they are. I was talking exclusively about young women in Galicia, not women in the countryside, and in the data I gave are incorporated the rural women, which, by the way, is 97% of Galician territory, and also the urban women. We're going to continue working in a coherent and integrated way, although you think it's all the opposite. We are now moving forward and developing in collaboration with the Council of the Rural Environment a socio-economic study of the Greek rural women, which although we do not announce the 8M in the Rural Environment Council if we are working on a report on the socio-economic situation of women in rural areas, the two councils: the Equality Council and the Rural Environment Council. We're also working with the ramparts in a specific study on the professionalism of this collective, which, as counsellor Quintana told you, and I explained to you first, we're helping and much of the professionalization of this sector. On the other hand, we are in the new equality law, although you do not give any importance to it, including the status of rural women and the sea, which was requested by the sector, including concepts such as multiple gender discrimination, which is, for example, women and rural women, because they work in rural areas or because they live in rural areas, promoting the creation of networks of women holding agricultural holdings, and several other issues which are included in that statute, which, as I say, calls for the sector itself. And on the other hand, I also want to value it because I was talking about the care of the eighty-nine nested houses that we currently have distributed throughout the territory and the eighty-three largest houses that also facilitate care and that will be one hundred twenty at the end of this year. Therefore, if I believe that we have measures — as I say to you — integrated into the entire territory of the autonomous community and integrated into the Government of Greece. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-03-09-DSPG073.u245	Thank you. Finish the full here. They would realize that during these two days of the plenary session we were joined by the Ukrainian Parliament, of course. This is your medal, which was delivered to our institution after a visit you made here in 2017. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira shows the camera a medal.]] Today, from here, we can send a hug, an encouragement to a people who are suffering and even applaud them, if it seems good to them. [[Applause]] Thank you. The session is up.
