ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. There's no justification for this, and we're on the agenda. Provision of pledges or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of a new Member's autonomy in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u2	As a preliminary point, we proceed to the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Member of Parliament, Mr Ojea Arias. By complying with Article 7.1 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall request the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I therefore ask you to answer the question I am going to put to you. Mr Eduardo Ojea Arias, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u3	Yes, I promise. From Valdeorras, land of Florencio Delgado Gurriaran, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u4	Thank you very much. Once you lend your promise, you will become a full member of Parliament. Thank you very much and welcome to Parliament. [[Applause]] And now we're on the agenda. Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union, presentation of its Government and election programme, in accordance with Article 15.3 of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u5	I call on the Secretary, Mrs Porro Martínez, to read out the resolution of the Presidency of the Galician Parliament of 3 May 2022 on the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Council, published in the Official Gazette of Parliament. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u6	Resolution of the Presidency of the Galician Parliament of 3 May 2022 on the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union. "The Statute of Autonomy of Galicia, in the third paragraph of Article 15, establishes the obligation of the Presidency of Parliament to initiate the corresponding consultations with the political forces represented in the House with the aim of formulating the proposal of a candidate for the Presidency of Galicia. In accordance with the above-mentioned precept and Articles 16 of Law 1/1983, 22 of February, the Rules of Procedure of the Union and its Presidency, and 136, in its first point, of the Parliament of Galicia Rules of Procedure, after consulting the political forces with parliamentary representation and hearing the Bureau, the Presidency proposes to the House as a candidate for the Presidency of the Council of Galicia to Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela. Santiago de Compostela, May 3, 2022. Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira, president."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u7	Thank you. The explanation of the procedure is as follows. First of all, the intervention of the no-timeless candidate for the exhibition of his government programme corresponds to the intervention of the candidate. After its intervention, the session will be suspended for a minimum of forty-eight hours, in accordance with Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The session will be resumed on Thursday, May 12, 2022. All of this will depend on the time when the candidate's intervention ends. It will begin with the intervention on the 12th day of the representatives of the parliamentary groups and from less to less than the largest, which, as agreed by the Bureau of Spokesman on 5 May, will have a period of thirty-five minutes per parliamentary group, followed by the candidate's response, either individually or jointly, in accordance with Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, and no time limit. The following is the reply of the representatives of the parliamentary groups for a period of ten minutes, in accordance with Article 136(4) of the Regulation. And finally, the doubling round and closing by the candidate, also no time limit. The voting time shall be announced in accordance with Rule 136(5) of the Rules of Procedure and shall be carried out after the last intervention of the candidate. And finally, the result will be voted on and proclaimed. For all this, and for the presentation of the programme by the candidate for the Presidency of Galicia — no time limit, according to Rule 136(2) of the Rules of Procedure — the candidate Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u8	President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, the Group of the BNG and the Socialist Group, guests present in the House, the media, the Greeks and the Greeks, today I want to speak from the experience of all these years of service to Galicia; first, as a public employee; then, as a high office of the Self-Government; and finally, after thirteen years as a member of the Government of our community. I want to speak also from the responsibility of assuming an institution like the Galician Union, which is decisive in alleviating difficulties and strengthening the certainties of the Greeks and the Greeks, and also from the hope that I face the future of Galicia, because I believe that, if we do the right thing, our children and grandchildren will inherit a land more prosperous than they have assumed and assumed the previous generations. Therefore, from experience, responsibility and hope I come before this Parliament to ask for your support and to be the next President of the Galician Union. I ask for the House's confidence in which the popular will of all the Greeks and Greeks, who less than two years ago freely and democratically decided that our land enjoyed a majority, stability and unrivalled continuity in Spain. President Albor spoke of Galicia as an unfinished task that takes us, that he believes us, that he even gives us a name, that makes us free and commits us. President Laxe called the rulers of this community to be aware of the intelligence and sensitivity of their working people. President Fraga recalled that Galicia demands honesty from all and with all, political, administrative, cultural and personal honesty. President Touriño proclaimed that Galicia is in a position to play a much more prominent role and to contribute significantly to the definition of Spain's common project. And finally, President Feijóo said that this land taught him to admire an educated people in tolerance and dialogue. "Government is to dialogue," said President Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, there are lessons to be learned from the presidents I worked with, from the presidents I disagreed with, and also from those who started our autonomous journey, when everything was yet to be done. From the first investment session to this one, many things have changed, beginning with this Parliament's own headquarters. Both in the palace of Xelmírez and in the palace of Fonseca and now in this palace of Horreo the representatives of the Greeks have evolved to our people. But I think there is something that remains unchanged from those early moments: commitment, consciousness and willingness to serve. So and now Galicia has kept some institutions up to what the Greeks deserve, so we face the biggest challenges — and this where we are undoubtedly — with a serenity that in almost all other places would be inconceivable. I want to be President of the Council of Galicia to sink into the facts that our land has had these forty years, and also to try to improve what can be done even better. But there is no more to look back or simply out to appreciate in its fair measure the achievements that this people has collectively achieved — without unbalanced triumphalisms but also without unjustified flashings. Later I will stand in the challenges and threats that my trial characterizes the future of Galicia, but first of all I must underline my priority. First and foremost, I want Galicia to continue to be a reference to this exceptional normality with which we mark the course of the rest of Spain. [[Applause]] Few facts, ladies and gentlemen, better symbolize Galicia's vocation to serve as a reference to national policy than the cause that brings us to this investment session today. If we're here today, it's because all Spain has, it's been, years, looking carefully at what happened in Galicia. The normality a president takes in his post 13 years after four absolutes is today, ladies and gentlemen, exceptional. The normality of a House in which populism, both left and right, has no place today is also exceptional. The normality of budgets being approved in time and in shape and of maintaining the stability of a government without having to subjugate official secrets or grant infinite concessions to nationalisms that will always be unsatisfied is also today exceptional. The normality of being the autonomous community that has less increased its debt in these years, of never needing a Central Government ransom and not spending more public money than we have today is exceptional. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the normality for the Greeks to have a sensible and predictable government, which seeks to create certainties and not multiply concerns, for many Spaniards still turns out to be exceptional today. President Feijóo was not granted the fortune of ruling in quiet times, much less. President Feijóo has been cut off at some of Galicia's most complicated moments in the last few decades. Ladies and gentlemen, during my years of training, I studied what the public service was. But — I have to say — with Feijóo I have learned the true meaning of public service. With the step he has just taken, he once again places everyone's interests above his own and legitimate interests. [[Applause]] The Greeks are confident that whatever responsibility he has to bear in the coming years, wherever he takes the will of the Spaniards, Alberto Núñez Feijóo will always be a servant of Galicia. And if I ask for this House's support to be President of the Board, it's also because I want to follow the example of an exemplary Welshman. [[Applause]] Heartily, president, thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 Galicia is characterized by its own style of political making, without any doubt, a way that has been reaping over thirteen years of coherence, of being faithful to ourselves and not allowing ourselves to be led by ephemeral fashions that seem to take everything forward but that, by leaving, the truth is, they leave a scarce legacy behind. In these years we have managed to maintain the confidence of the Greeks in their autonomous government. It is true that we were parks in pledges but prolific in fulfillments, when the tendency in our surroundings was to do it just the other way around. Today I would like to make a call to all the political forces of this House, and also to those who have no representation here—well because they have and have lost it, well because they have never had it, but to those who can legitimately also feel represented by some Greeks. I want to ask you, among all of us, to continue to pursue Greek politics, which is not to practice a concrete ideology, but to subordinate principles proper to general interests. Let us keep the institutions as valuable shelters to provide the security and continuity that citizens demand in such complicated times. We focus our debate on the everyday concerns of citizens — creating jobs, improving domestic economies, protecting families and people — rather than central in matters that, of so much gas and theory, few understand them and even less share them. We therefore flee from amanisms and dogmas. No idea, Your Honor, as desirable as it may seem, will be more valuable than the well-being of people. In short, we continue to make public decisions, which affect not only those who make them but especially the whole of the people who receive them, from the very moment of the day. The gradual will always be better than the drastic, the moderate will always be better than the extreme, and the consensual is always better than what comes imposed. Neither blocks nor blocks, always, and above all, the general interests of the Greeks. [[Applause]] These guiding principles have guided our political action since 2009. The practical application of all of them helped us — from my humble point of view, which I believe many people share — that Galicia today is a better place to live than it was thirteen years ago. During these years, our community has managed to keep its institutional architecture safe from the great instability it has reigned elsewhere. At the beginning of our walk in self-government 13 years ago, I remember the harsh criticisms of the opposition representatives — some and some of them continue in this Chamber. We were criticized for the policy of rationalizing public accounts and eliminating political spending that we implemented especially in the first few years. Obviously, implantation was not a whim. The easy decision — everyone can imagine it — would be to keep spending and that would make the bills bigger without paying that, when we access the Government, they would pop up the drawers. But we understood that the wise thing was to try to leave Galicia as soon as possible free from burdens and mortgages so that she could decide for herself her future, to rule who would rule. And this should be a theme and a maximum of any government. The Greeks rewarded our determination and decided, whenever they were consulted — for four times — that we would continue together on the same Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, the recipes and formulas proposed by those who claim to be more Welsh and more nationalists than anyone would have led — and nobody would doubt — into a safe intervention by the Central Government, as happened to all other communities of common regime at that time. We, on the other hand, preserve our autonomy thanks precisely to the good health of our accounts. And Galicia is not just the community that has increased its debt since 2009. We are also the third from all over Spain with a lower debt ratio. We saved nearly 400 million euros in interest that we could therefore invest in the Greeks. Every year we approved an budget. This is something that should be normal in the lives of administrations but which today has also become something exceptional, extraordinary — only to look around. Every month we've been reinforcing productive spending, and today Galicia doubles the national average spending on investments. Every day, we pay more easily to individuals and companies who are suppliers of the Union, and today we are still one of the fastest-paid communities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if I gain the confidence of this House, I will face a situation — I am aware — very different from what we found in 2009: we are now a healthy community, with less than half of the instrumental entities that were and therefore capable of investing in the improvement of Galicia. And, of course, maintaining the financial order of our community has not prevented us from moving the fruits of economic growth to family economies. Now, at this time when it comes to making the income statement, I think it's convenient to remember that every Welshman is already saving an average of 403 euros in this tax, thanks to the discounts he's already approved and is applying to Galician Union. Not only in the IRPF, because the Germans — especially those of lower incomes or those living in rural areas — also pay less or even, in some cases, pay nothing in the ITP, in the property tax and in the succession tax. The figures speak for themselves: since 2009, the whole of the Galician families have saved 1.2 billion euros in taxes, which were directly employed to improve the quality of life of the citizenship set in Galicia. But this road doesn't end here. In these years, Galicia's fiscal policy has proved to be proportionate and useful to increase wealth and put it in the hands of families. And so we want to go on, ladies and gentlemen. You know that the People's Party of Spain, after hearing the opinion of economists, has called for tax aid at the national level to be approved for people who, because of their low income, are particularly affected by the rise in prices. Well, if I get the confidence of this House, I want to announce that Galicia won't wait for the Central Government to help all these families. In 2023, we will reduce the first IRPF section from 9.4% to 9% and place ourselves as Spain's second autonomous community with fewer income taxes. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Germans with a liquidable base equal to or less than EUR 12,450 shall pay less than 4,3 %, and the basic ones equal to or less than 20,200 shall save 2.4% by this measure. After this new tax reduction, taxes for these homes will be more than 25% lower than they were in 2009. And in this way we will continue to be close to families who need it most in the face of the situation that suffers from the serious increase in the price of essential products because of inflation. [[Applause]] Moreover, from the declaration of 2023, the Greek families with two children under the age of 25 will have the same tax benefits, for the purposes of IRPF, which today enjoy numerous families. This will result in a deduction of EUR 250 in the autonomic section of the full share of the IRPF, which will be increased by EUR 250 extra for the third child and each of the following, as a recognition of the special effort of numerous families. Families with three children can save 500 euros, those with four, 750... and so on. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that, when we talk about economics and public finances, what we are talking about is, firstly, the well-being of people. In these years, the GDP per capita of Galicia increased by 18.2 %, the second largest increase in Spain. As a result, until the pandemic came, our community was closer than ever to converge with national income. And I have no doubt that in the coming years, and despite the difficulties, we will be an ever more prosperous land. We are already leaders of the naval sector, motorists face the future — with all uncertainties — from a stronger position, the agribusiness sector generates more added value than ever and the maritime is hitting export records. In fact, over the last ten years, the value of the Galician fishing has grown by 50% and in 2021 we have reached the most historic at the average price on the length of our fish and seafood. And we want to go this way. Galician exports already exceed the record of EUR 25,000 million. But in addition, the exporting tissue is increasingly rich and plural, and there are already 9,300 companies that are selling their products out. The benefits of this economic progress have been transferred to our labour market: today there are more people affiliated to Social Security than in 2009. Today there are 60,000 Greeks less unemployed than in 2009, which means the lowest unemployment at this time of year since there is data. Today we count on the best employment figures between women and youth. Today we are in the highest number of indefinite recruitment of the entire historical series, and today we are also the community where wages have grown most since 2009 — 32% since that year. And, of course, we are aware that there are still many challenges on the table, as not! Our industrial fabric has been greatly affected by a national energy policy that has overlooked — as it were with kindness — the harmful consequences that it would have and is having at work. The vacuum that leaves strategic companies like Alcoa, Alu Iberian or Endesa's power plant has not yet been covered. Of course, the wounds opened in the Navy, in the Coruña or in the Bridges will take years to close. But despite the uncertainties — that there are — and despite the obstacles — that we have encountered and will find them, in these years we have succeeded in creating quality jobs in a Galicia that must not stop growing. And the prosperity that we are gradually increasing would be incomplete if its fruits were not being distributed among the whole of Greek society. When an advanced Greek allows others to also have more opportunities to move forward with him. So equality of opportunity must not be and cannot be — of course not — an intelligence. It looks very nice to refer to her in the speeches, but then she keeps herself in a drawer. Not least, it's the goal we must all work for with words and facts, and of course public administrations through the rational and effective use of public services. And, undoubtedly, the health system, as the last health protection bulwark, is one of the most sensitive areas in this area. Citizens don't expect public health to be just a proper service; on the contrary, they demand -- and they have every right to do so -- a attention that every day is the best possible. I believe that in these years we have managed to give public health a very important new impetus. Despite the pandemic, the waiting lists in the priority surgeries are still under twenty days, and the quick ways of consultation under five. In these years, a hundred health centers have been built or renovated, five are in works and 28 are projected. And, as you know, all the public hospitals in Galicia have been modernized. Two point centers were built in Vigo and Lugo, in addition to the expansion of the Ourense Hospital. Vanguard technology has been implemented which in some cases is unique in the Spanish public health system. For example, the HIFU system against the essential tremor. We must also mention the surgical robots Da Vinci, the advances in cellular therapies, in proton therapy. All that opens the door to hope in a personalized approach to cancer is also something that has been achieved in recent years. Of course, public health continues to have, and will always have, a wide margin to improve. But today it's also true that there are more professionals than ever working to take care of our health in public health. There are 42,000 —6,000 more than in 2008. And as a result of all this, and despite the progress that — I insist — are still pending, and that it will have to be achieved, the Greeks have reassessed the Greek health services with the highest grade since there is data. [[Applause]] And also thanks to an axile health structure, a huge capillary and above all to the immeasurable delivery of health professionals, Galicia was the peninsula community that best resisted the impact of the pandemic. More than 570,000 Galicians outnumbered the coward. But we must not forget — and we will never do — the 3,389 they couldn't do it. But we must also remember that more than 6 million vaccines were dispensed in record time, in a historical effort that allowed us to control the expansion of the virus, which means -- if allowed -- a certain pride of how we did things in Galicia, a country pride. That doesn't mean we don't have to be careful. There's still more than 1,500 positives every day. And, therefore, these very hard months that we live — and we leave behind, fortunately — cannot make us forget a lesson for the future: that we must remain cautious. It was also necessary to adapt the other two points of the welfare society, that Galicia which accompanies the Greeks from the cradle to the cane. In both education and social services, we found, after 13 years, services strengthened by a continuing bet we did for them. Even before a baby starts walking, our welfare society begins to water down through a high-quality childhood education, and not only because of the contrasting level of the education project of Galician schools — which it has — but also because our society is the only community in Spain where education from 0 to 3 years is totally free for all families in all Galician childhood schools from the second child. Well, from this month of September, at the beginning of the course, they can also benefit from this measure all firstborn; that is, universal child education for all children up to 3 years old, regardless of their order of birth. So, ladies and gentlemen, it will be more than thirty thousand families who will benefit from the great Welsh bet by universalizing an educational stage that, the judgment of all experts, is fundamental to the early development of the child. [[Applause]] We removed not only the economic barriers to access to the attention of the smaller but also the geographic ones. In recent years they opened their doors in Galicia about a hundred children's houses in every place they requested. We reject, of course, that the best way that education is really equal is to devalue it, lower it's demand and demonstrate very little confidence in students and teachers. First of all, Galicia's position is just the opposite. We believe and advocate that the best way to move forward towards equal opportunities is to bet on an education that combines inclusion and equity with the highest level of training, especially for those children and children who come from disadvantaged backgrounds. To promote effort and merit must be compatible with a system in which everyone is given opportunities not to stay behind. And it's not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of getting the tin down so you can jump more easily. No, no, it's about pushing those who have the most difficulties so they can get past that sledge. The results of these years support the model that followed our community, this model that I am referring to, the model of effort. Today we register the lowest dropout in school early in our history, has fallen 17.7 points since 2009. And the PISA report reveals that the German student is at the head of Spain and above the average of Spain, the European Union and all the countries developed in mathematical, scientific and readerships. We are very proud of the talent and commitment of all the teachers and teachers in Galicia, who know how to overcome an educational policy that the governments of the nation have already changed too many times — and also, usually, not for better — and continue to accompany their students at a decisive stage in their lives. This accompaniment is not just for children and children. That's fundamental, but we also extend it to other moments in people's lives. At many times citizens may need the support of their administrations. In some cases because of an economic downturn, in others because of disability, in others because of suffering the achaques and evasas proper to age. In all these circumstances, the Galician social protection network has been strengthening for the past 13 years. We shielded Galician social inclusion income — when most needed, in addition — and emergency measures were launched, such as the basic card. We consolidate ourselves as one of the communities that most support people with disabilities, we multiply by 16 the number of older people who receive the home aid service and triple the number of public residential squares within their reach. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we devote such intense efforts to strengthening public services, it's because we always understand that the Union should have firm feet in the present but also the view raised towards the future. We understand that part of our responsibility was to maintain the confidence of the Greeks today but also to leave a legacy of what our children, our grandchildren and generations are about to enjoy. First of all, I'm talking about our environment. Galicia participates as an advantaged student in the fight against global warming, because in recent years we have reduced the emission of greenhouse gases by 36%. And even so, the commitment and effort of all of them has allowed our rivers and our backs, our rivers, to experience an enormous improvement in water quality. This improvement has also extended to the urban, land and forest. 113 Greek municipalities today already have a general municipal management plan adapted to regulations. Today our rural area has new formulas for rationalizing the earth, such as agroforestry polygons or joint management groupings. And today we have a forest plan that combines use and sustainability. A lot of productive is a lot better protected against fires and fires. Today Galicia is also a much better vertebrate community than it was thirteen years ago, with more high-performance routes without fees, twice as many bus frequencies — free for young people in Galicia — with intermodal stations in Ourense and Santiago — which are already in operation — with Vigo and Pontevedra — who are about to do so — and with the Coruña already auctioned. And we keep working so that Lugo and Ferrol also contain an intermodal station. And in the field of digital infrastructures, ladies and gentlemen, which are most important every day — fundamental already — it has to be said that 99.96% of the Greeks — practically 100 percent — have at least 4G mobile coverage; and almost three quarters, 73%, have a broadband band of 100 megas or more. This percentage, in addition, we want it to be 90% before it ends this year. We are better connected to the Greeks, and it also has a lot to do with it in the Greek language and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, let us leap through a language that does not raise new borders but serves precisely the opposite, to hold bridges. And that's why we narrow -- and we're still doing it -- ties to the Lusophony. We're working to get the voice assistants — like Siri or Alexa — to talk, why not, too, Greek. Greek culture is experiencing an outbreak, not only in areas where there has been years of very high quality production — such as literature, theatre or music — but also in fields with enormous growth potential, such as audiovisual or video game production, which in Galicia has a very high quality. And, ladies and gentlemen, the will of the governments that we have formed since 2009 can be summed up in a very simple sentence after all I just said: leave a Galicia better than we have found. Today we count with healthy institutions, we count with a strong economy that fights to overcome the effects of the pandemic, we count with a society of the strongest well-being that helped us resist, and with a common heritage that serves, more than ever, to join the Greeks. [[Applause]] I stand before this House with the satisfaction and pride of being part of a government that met Galicia, and also — and I want to say — with the very present memory of one of the fellows who better understood the true meaning of the word "serving"; a man to whom it was easy to admire even when he disagreed with it. Valeriano Martínez will continue to be a reference to me and many of us in this House in everything we undertake. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be President of the Board to copy the last pages of our history, although they were memorable — and I truly believe it —. I want to be President of the Board to write, among all, some of the best lines of our future. The illusion with which I face this new stage does not prevent me from seeing the difficulties that the homes and the Greeks in general are going through right now; on the contrary, what helps me is the clearer candles. What citizens expect from us, I'm clear that they're not frivolities, dogmas or utopias. What they expect is that we ease their difficulties, that we make our priorities and, above all, that we always tell them the truth. The global situation we find in this 2022 closes not a few challenges, I'm perfectly aware. It is true that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has strained the seams of the Spanish economic system, and it is also true that it has left it uncovered that it has been accumulated over the past few months and the last few years—of course, it is true that not all of them are attributable to the central government, but a good part of them—. The Greek families are suffering from sudden inflation today, which is aggravated by a severe rise in the price of light and fuel. Of course, among the causes of this is an energy breach run off, guided more by political interests than by general interest, and which in Galicia is doing special damage. And at this complex crossing of economic roads, in this complex social scenario, is where we are today, ladies and gentlemen; and therefore that is what we have to face and try to improve. I wouldn't be telling you the truth if I promised Galicia was totally safe from all these risks, but what I assure you is that the Union will work tirelessly so that we are best prepared to overcome them. In uncertain times it is especially important to vaccinate against improvisation. And how? Well, as always, we had to do it -- through a sensible, time-consuming, realistic planning. Ours is known and recognized, it is collected in the Strategic Plan 2020-2030, which approved the Board of Directors two months ago and which, of course, maintains — in my opinion — all its vigil. And, therefore, my project for the next few years will be based on three fundamental pillars, three axes of action of the future self-government that coincide — I sincerely believe — with the concerns that move us to the Greeks: work, family and the future. The first is work. We want a Galicia that creates more and more jobs and a better quality; and, to achieve this, we will bet on a sustainable and people-centred economic growth. I'm talking about a working world with the Galicians and the Greeks in the center, because work is much more than a means of subsistence. It is also, without a doubt, the best social policy, the best way for personal autonomy — especially for the most vulnerable — and it is a fundamental part, in the end, of our everyday life. Betting for quality work is betting for quality of life. I'm totally convinced. And, therefore, and as I know it's an iodine that often becomes the target of populisms of all signs, I have to say that magic formulas don't exist. The creation of good jobs is necessarily due to proper economic development. Therefore, our economic objectives — as I said before — are known, are quantified and planned in that Strategic Plan 2020-2030. We are looking for an average GDP growth of between 2% and 2.5 % annually over the whole decade — over the national average. And we also want a 4-point reduction in unemployment, so by 2030, Galicia's unemployment rate is around 8%. This economic growth of Galicia over the next few years, I want you to sit down on a series of solid stones. The first is the consolidation of a sustainable industry, which has tractor projects that drive the growth of pears and generate jobs in rural as well. I am talking, for example, about the other sustainable textile fibre factory, which will be installed, as you know, in King's Palaces, which will involve an investment of 800 million euros and which will open the door to 2,500 new direct and indirect jobs. Of course, he's going to assume one before and one after in the German forest sector and also in the province of Lugo. [[Applause]] I also speak of the consolidation of the sectors in which we have traditionally been and are stronger, such as automotive, agri-food and textile, with the largest and best multinational — no doubt — from around the world, which is here in Galicia. I'm talking about the impulse of emerging sectors like aerospace or biotechnology — which are no longer a future — they're an exciting present. And, of course, support for enterprise. Galicia is Spain's third community where there are more opportunities to undertake. And this, of course, is not the result of chance, but of programs — I could quote many — of coworking spaces that are increasingly emerging, of accelerating companies in strategic areas; ultimately, of a work that has come in recent years and that is planned and will continue to be planned. Junta will support business projects with new itineraries, with new instruments — especially on the countryside —. We're going to create 12 chickens of entrepreneurship in rural areas, and we're going to keep thinking that the entrepreneurship is fundamental to Galicia. And last of all, administrative simplification is also essential, ladies and gentlemen. We want companies to be able to spend less time covering roles and more generating business and thus generate wealth for all of Galicia. In the maritime sector, we will focus on generation change, shielding an equitable framework of work for the fleet globally and which continues to grow as it has grown in recent years. In rural areas we will continue to work for that generational rebound, which is necessary, and to continue to faithfully recover our agricultural land and continue to put it into value. For those 150,000 Galicians who are looking for work, the Galician board is going to hire 136 new work guides, increase the investment in training by 80% and create a virtual training campus for jobs that is not equivalent right now in Spain. [[Applause]] The second fundamental axis said, ladies and gentlemen, it's the family's. By adding job opportunities, we'll be able to multiply the possibilities that the Greeks have in order to form a family, whatever their preferences at the time of forming it or understanding it. We have often referred to Galicia as the best place to be born. This is much more than an advertising claim, it's a statement of intent and it has to remain. Now that more and more citizens everywhere choose freely and amplitude to look at the place where they sit and form a family, we want to be the first option for all of them, beginning, of course, with those who live here and also for those who have to go and want to come back. The more than half a million Greeks abroad are physically far away but always present for this government. Galicia is much more than a geographic location, it's a community of affections, and in these things it's where to prove it. So we want them to get back to what has always been their home, like the more than 22,000 they've done in the last three years. And that's why we're going to design a specific project to support the employability and entrepreneurship of diaspora members who decide to return to our land. In case they decide to continue living outside where they've rallied, they will of course also continue to rely on the support of Greek society and its government, especially those who need it most, with social assistance that will be at their disposal to obtain medicines or to meet their most basic needs. Support, lords, families and incentives for those who want to return to our land are part of Galicia's formula to deal with the biggest mortgage that weighs on our future, the greatest threat: the demographic challenge. And, therefore, after we become pioneers at the national level by legislating on this matter, we now have to be leaders with measures that move as much support as possible to the Greek homes, with real measures, with demanded and necessary measures. Galicia must roast all the Greeks, and that means taking more measures than anyone else to protect, first, the health of the little ones. So if I gain the confidence of this Parliament, I announce that Galicia will fully incorporate three new vaccines for families into the children's calendar: that of meninxite B, that of the human papilloma virus for children and the tetravalent anti-gripal. With these three new vaccines, Galicia will become the autonomous community with a more complete child vaccination calendar. [[Applause]] And, of course, we will ask the Ministry of Health to extend this benefit to the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia must roast all the Greeks and we want all the students of Galicia to feel it that way. There are no abusers in our education system. The schools and schools of Greece, alongside the families, will resolutely combat school harassment with all the tools within their reach through a new Greek strategy of school co-existence. One of the main priorities of this government in the area of education — and we have many — is to combat a scourge that, although, fortunately, is given less than elsewhere in Spain, undoubtedly inflicts an unmerited pain on children who suffer it and also on their families. In Galicia, "School harassment, never again!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] Our community must pride all the Greeks, and we want the girl girl to spend a summer, this same summer, unforgettable after all we've suffered in these months. So tomorrow we will present the largest offer of camps and volunteering camps in history: more than 10,800 squares — 3,000 more than last year. Galicia must pride all the Greeks, and to grow is also helping ours to meet their goals in the full digital transformation of society. That is why we will invest more than 200 million euros in strengthening the learning of languages and STEM competences. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we don't thinn the curricula, but on the contrary, we enrich them with more languages and more innovation. And we will also deepen on the historical impulse that vocational training has received in these years, which is already more prestigious than ever — and has still gone through —. In this legislation, we will invest 900 million in improving the qualifications, the technology of the centres, in boosting dual FP and engrossing the necessary and essential link with the companies. The symbol of this advance in innovation and specialization will be this Galego Centre for Innovation of Vocational Training, which will open its doors in Ourense before the end of this year. And as we want to strengthen our position as a community of reference in vocational training, I announce that this educational option, the FP, vocational training, will have a self-directive centre within the organization chart of the Galician Union, which will deal with all its specific challenges. [[Applause]] At university level, we will mobilise a record of more than €3.2 billion up to the year 2026. For what? Well, to put the three public universities in the map of the best public education institutions in Spain and Europe, with more innovation in teaching, more research and a more consolidated international vocation. In order to offer all the options to students from Greece and abroad who want to come to study here, and to offer higher education in line with the new challenges of society, in the coming years 15 new masters will be launched and a dozen new degrees will be launched in our public university system from Galicia so that no student who doesn't want to have to leave Galicia to make the dream career. And, in parallel, the university of Galicia will remain the most accessible in Spain, as we will remain the autonomous community with lower access rates for all universities — the three —. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's families will continue to work on a high-quality, agile public health, starting with its vertebrate element: primary care. We are, of course, aware that health centres are for many Greeks the great symbol of the society of well-being. We can all tell them that over the next few years we will culminate in the greatest reform of primary health care in Galicia autonomics: we will offer 106 squares of the new optional specialist category that integrates ordinary care with the CAP; we will advance in the use of telemedicine, integrating in the electronic history the information of health monitoring devices, such as cardioimplantables, pacemakers, insulin pumps or glucose meters; we will strengthen the autonomy of the centres through the extension of local health plans and enhance the role of the head of the service in the coordination of health centres; and over the next few months we will continue to advance in the wage improvement to reward the efforts of primary health care staff. [[Applause]] Of course, I can assure you one thing: Galicia will do everything in its hand to improve primary care, because we are aware of its importance. I have to say that every family medicine specialist has opened the gates of the Galician Health Service. They will be automatically hired each and every one. Each and every one of the squares that the Central Government gives us to form new specialists we will automatically cover them, each and every one! Public health needs to be addressed with maximum ambition but also with maximum rigour. Here, gentlemen, there are no impossible promises that are very easy to make and very difficult, or impossible, to fulfill, and that only generate false expectations. What Galicia needs are concrete advances such as those we live in these legislatures and those we will continue to build together. And we will also move forward with facts in one of the areas of greatest concern — and rightly so — in our society, which is mental health. The experts are already pointing out that one in four people will have a mental disorder throughout their lives. It's a worrying figure, of course, and it makes us reflect on some aspects of our lifestyle. To address all these cases Galicia has a mental health plan with measures for the whole of the legislation, which includes, for example, the hiring of 240 professionals — half of whom are already incorporated and working—. We'll continue to work, and we'll focus especially on the welfare of teenagers, who suffered a lot during this pandemic. We will do so with a package of measures that includes, among other things, an early detection system of mental health episodes that are alarming and that will count — it is necessary — with the involvement of the education system and health professionals. In the issue of social inclusion, we will also take care of those who have come out of the pandemic's worst stops. On the one hand — for those who were already starting from a position of greater vulnerability — Galicia will adopt a new law of social inclusion to respond to families in the worst socio-economic situation and make it easier for them to work autonomously on their own future. And on the other hand, the concern and attention of society towards older people should continue in the foreground, as so far as it is now, even after the referral of the hardest moments of the coward-19 — even now with more reason —. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that many older ones feel that the modern world is not made for them, that many procedures from day to day, and more and more, are designed to think more about young people than older people. The elderly have much to do with the Greek society, not in terms of present or much less of the past, but in terms of the future. The institutions thus have to reflect, and that's why all offices at the Board will count on a preferred and more humane channel to care for people over 65 years of age. [[Applause]] And to meet them when the difficulties come to our community will be provided in this same legislation of two thousand new public squares specializing in caring for them, with, among other services, seven new residences financed by the Amancio Ortega Foundation and the construction of municipal centres with the economic support of the Galician Union. Also in this legislation we will reduce by half the procedures and the times that the Greeks must wait for to access an aid or service of attention to the dependency, of those that already enjoy today 66,000 Greeks — four times more than 13 years ago —. We'll advance towards a new model of care for the elderly, with more technology, more socio-health coordination, better organized centers and closer and more sensitive attention, so that any German, regardless of his age or where he lives, will always feel at home. The construction of a Galician that breeds better for all the Greeks is also necessarily about continuing to reform and modernise the public service of justice. We're going to move forward in the two modernization vectors that inspired our work these years. On the one hand, improvements in infrastructure. There is the City of Justice in Vigo, which will be inaugurated in a few days — the best judicial building in Spain. And the next construction will also begin in a few days: the new judges of the Road. Also -- and this is very important -- at the technological level, in 2023, 100 percent, the total, of the viewing rooms will have digital means, will be digital rooms. Without moving away from the everyday concerns of the Greeks, he said that the first and fundamental piar was work; the second, the family; and the third is the future, which, if allowed, encompasses everything else. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to continue to draw between all the main lines of the future of Galicia. And it has to be a quiet evolution, like up until now, but it has to be an evolution that strengthens our position in a world that is increasingly interconnected and where the border between the site and the global is increasingly diffuse. To talk about the future is to talk about Galician youth. Each girl and every boy has different experiences, has different expectations, has different priorities, they think, act and decide on their own. In short, they're free. And that's why the continuous attempts by some to monopolize them, to homogenize them, to fight with reality: the younger Greeks think and act as they feel, without ideological corsets. [[Applause]] I know the difficulties that young people in Greece live under the shadow of a precariousness that prevents them from making long-term plans and that often to the home of their parents for much longer than they would like. Therefore, the Union will have the Galician youth at the highest of its priorities, not as a bet on the future, but as a bet on the present, because I am the present. And we acquired three commitments from the young men and the young men of Greece: First of all, we'll work to make it easier for them to have a decent job, a first-class education and a housing that allows them to take root wherever they want to live. The second is that we will listen to youth without dogmas or prejudices. I insist, they're free, they think freely. And the third is that we will do what is necessary to give them the opportunities they deserve, because I have no doubt that they will be able to take advantage of them. For example, for example, we will put in place new measures to access housing. From this year, children under 35 years of age, and children under 40 with children, will be able to gain access to 15% of the mortgage for the purchase of housing. And we're going to increase the supply of housing at affordable prices with a mobilization of 1,300 public housing. In the environmental issue, ladies and gentlemen, we'll bet on renewable energies. And not because of the imperative of the current international context, which, too, but, and especially, by a conviction that we've shown for years. We want a greener Galicia, we want a Galicia that is a reference to the wind sector, the marine wind, the green hydrogen and the biogas. At the end of this decade, clean energy has to represent 85% of the electricity generation mix in our community. And we will also bet, as we do not, on high-quality scientific research and why their results are transferred to the whole of society, which is transferred here, if possible, to Galicia. And for that, Junta will develop a program to give work stability to our researchers. We'll also bet on the value of our natural and cultural heritage. I think the best way to keep our acquis is to give it a utility and share it with the world. Tourism is much more than an economic activity. Well managed, it's the best way to take advantage of Galicia's enormous potential. It is a fact that the pandemic subjected a dry paroon to all tourism, the national and also the international, but for our community it was not a final point, but a point and then, as we could see immediately. In the first quarter of this year, Galicia recovered 90% of the tourist demand it had before the pandemic. And in this resurgence, without any doubt, it is of immense importance that the vessel is insignia: the Way of Santiago, the Xacobeo. In 2022, the second part of this biannual Xacobeo, we've already received over 60,000 pilgrims, we've largely exceeded the record of the best year, which was the year 2019. We're attracting more people than before the pandemic. But, of course, we don't comply. I believe and we believe that Galicia can still attract many more visitors during this holy biennium and during the holy years that come forward in that Jacobean decade. There are plans for investments in the conservation and improvement of routes, shelters and cultural interests, in addition to a wide range of cultural programming — more than 300 top-level artists will integrate the recently presented Xacobeo concert cycle. And we also want to open the Way to new audiences, to make it easier for families, cyclists and nautical tourism — more and more on the rise. And as we want to encourage you, and encourage you with new lines and new formulas — we want the Jacobean routes not to be, that they are no longer, or that they don't focus on the pilgrimage, especially in the summer, – the Junta will launch the Bono Xacobeo Jupiter, which will enrich the stays in the hostels of the Way for girls and young people between 18 and 30 years of age during spring, autumn and winter. [[Applause]] As we want to bet on the specific tourist potentials that Galicia has — that I am a treasure and that are now valued more than ever, such as food and food, our coast, the wonders of our coast, landscapes and so many things — we want to bet also on everything that has to do with our thermal community condition. Therefore, if I am elected president, I will create a specific area of thermalism within the organization chart of the Galician Union, which will be responsible for coordinating all health and playful actions in this matter and which will have its headquarters — as is natural — in the second thermal city of Europe, the city of Ourense. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be President of the Council of Galicia because I believe deeply and sincerely in this land, I believe in Galicia as a meeting point for all the Greeks, the two hemispheres, the swimmers here and the swimmers outside, speak the language they speak and think how they think. I believe in Galicia as fate, in a land forged by the roads that lead to it from all over the world. The important thing is not where you come from, but where you want to go and what you want to do. I believe in Galicia's institutional cooperation, where the municipalities and the Union have to work together for the common good. This is what neighbors demand. To that end, we will create, with the University of Vigo and Red Localis, a chair of good local government, to persevere in this objective. I believe in a Galicia with a triple identity, both Welsh, Spanish and European, and that it is said to be quite tall, without complexes and with pride. I believe in Galicia's real equality that makes the daily obstacles that still exist, the ones that women suffer because of being sealed, and that it throws into the sewer of history its most cruel and excruciating manifestation, which is maleistic violence. I believe in Galicia with enormous potential, that the future reserves great achievements and invites us all to achieve them together. I believe in a Galicia open to the world. Faced with the nationalism that seeks to close our voice within the boundaries of our autonomous community, and against that centralism which is the opposite, dilutes it and neutralizes it, we — my government — will work to ensure that Galicia's priorities, problems, approaches and successes are heard beyond Eo, Mine and Padornelo, so that they can be heard in Spain, Europe and around the world. Alfredo Brañas, a pioneer of Greekism, had written a few lines which, over a century later, kept all their vigil and all their veracity. He said that "in the moments of proof, Spain has always found its salvation in that spirit which so hard to destroy the merchants of politics: in love with the land, in the small country, without which great time it would have ceased to exist." I believe that the events of the last few months make it clear to the extent that Spain needs Galicia, it still needs Galicia. Galicia must maintain and expand the weight and prestige it has gained these years in the national concert. Of course, we will remain loyal. Our community will never tension the seams of a state that, more than ever, needs to stand firm in the face of the threats it is facing. But of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is important not to confuse loyalty with submission. To be silent before what we consider unpleasant would be precisely a serious display of disloyalty which, of course, I will not commit. And that's why we will claim, we will continue to demand, for all the Greeks what we consider to be the right of us, as we have already claimed by claiming the 225 million euros which the Central Government owed us for the collection of the VAT and which did not abuse us until the Supreme Court demanded it; and how we do and will continue to defend a new model of autonomous financing in the line of what we signed eight communities a few months ago in Santiago de Compostela — communities governed by all political parties — that all Spaniards, where they live, have their needs effectively and fairly. We'll keep claiming this. We will continue to demand new powers, we will continue to insist on those which we have claimed and have not granted us, and we will continue to defend ourselves, by the way, against this fury which has recently entered the Central Government in challenging the rules issued by this Parliament and the Government of the Council of Galicia. We'll keep fighting that, too. In addition, the Central Government seems to be a hostage to all the national and foreign interests of the Government itself internally and its partners, including those in this Parliament. In the end, he is hostage to everything but general interests. So I refuse to formalize the fact that the future of Spain is in the hands of those whose political project is precisely the dissolution of Spain, I refuse to do so. And it irritates me the growing boldness with which the current executive intends to partisanly use state institutions, from foreign policy to government organs of justice. I was also disappointed to feel that disloyalty is rewarded with concessions and good manners while the sense of state is paid with riots and failures so repeated that it costs me to think that they are fruit of chance. I do not share the way of politics that seemed to have been installed in Moncloa, and I will continue, from Galicia, defending the principles that the Greeks voted four times with a strong majority. [[Applause]] If I get the support of this Parliament, in my first week as President of the Union, I will remind the President of the Government of the commitments to our land that are still lacking to comply with and I will request, as is normal, an audience to address together the way to subsale them. I would like to share with you ten questions that I will transfer to President Sánchez as a summary of all these claims and this defense of our interests. The first will be: why do they still not allow us to create new training places for family doctors and why do they still not create emergency medicine? The second will be: why are they still not enough to finance the dependency, which causes an annual debt that already exceeds 2,100 million euros? I will also ask you why there is still no genuine and sufficient involvement with Jacob, with more European funds, and more time of ingravation for the sponsors who wanted to collaborate with Jacob and will not be able. Fourthly, why is it still unknown to us that we are the marine community par excellence, why we are denied a seat at the Oceanographic Institute and why more than a hundred companies working on the coast are closed down by unfair-back rules that must be repealed. [[Applause]] I'll also ask you why you don't cover 100 percent of the autonomic police personnel, just in a year where they were most needed than ever, a year of huge tourist influx. I will also ask why connections by highway and high-speed train have been denied to Lugo's province for so many years. I will ask you, in seventh place, why not support the Atlantic corridor — at the same level, at least, where you are supporting the Mediterranean corridor — and how many more years we will have to wait for the transfer of the AP-9 — accompanied, yes, by the necessary budget allocation. And I will also ask you why you are trying to block the economic transformation of the district of Ferrolterra, why you keep a railway line two centuries ago and why there is no involvement in the State Pact for Ferrol? [[Applause]] I'll also ask you why it seems, in a very worrying way, to exclude the Welsh motor vehicle from the electrical and connected vehicle, which puts a strategic industry at risk for Galicia. And I'm going to ask why he's trying to continue to penalize his estates in life, which is a figure that collects our civil rights and has been welcomed by more than two hundred thousand Greeks in recent years. Along with these questions — which could be a lot more — I will also recognize that there have been progress; for example, the arrival — after many years of waiting — from AVE to Galicia. But it's progress that still takes a long time to be complete and fulfilled. And, therefore, we will continue to demand that they be fulfilled. We still don't have the April trains, which will allow the AVE to reach Santiago, Pontevedra, Vigo and La Coruña. We will continue to demand, therefore, that the high speed of Greece is not more or less slow than that of the rest of Spain — especially after so many years waiting. I'll demand that too. Ladies and gentlemen, being demanding is our way of being loyal. He's with Spain and also with European institutions. In order to get Europe to meet the demands of this corner of the peninsula, we count — and I will not forget — with a fundamental ally, which are our allies on the other side of the bank, Portugal — and especially the north of Portugal. That's how we managed to get Galicia to be the second autonomous community that most funding will receive during the operating period 2021-2027 — more than €3,200 million — to continue modernizing our land and to continue to narrow those strategic links with northern Portugal in our euro area. Working together in these years, we have captured a European investment of more than 160 million euros and we are leaders in cross-border cooperation projects, of R & D+i, cultural, tourism and economics. Galicia, of course, will not waste the enormous opportunity of linguistic proximity to the Lusophony. We have a language that opens the doors of a community of over two hundred million speakers all over the world. So in this legislation, we will put in place the Portuguese Credit Plan, a certification system so that the student from Greece can demonstrate his competences in Portuguese, within the conviction that language learning always adds and never remains. We'll be freer the more multilingual we are. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not or will aspire to be Allor or Laxe or Fraga or Touriño. Neither am I, nor can I — I will not try — be Alberto Núñez Feijóo. I am Alfonso Rueda and will work to expand and improve the legacy of these years of government. One of the walkers changes, but the path continues. [[Applause]] Galicia I want it to remain a country where you live in peace, where you live in justice, where you live in progress, where there is social welfare. And for Galicia to live in freedom, we have the moral obligation and the formal commitment to continue working everywhere so that this, our country, feels that the future and no case will be taken. We are already and must continue to be a modern community, culture and prosperity, with an economic and social balance and genuine solidarity. I am convinced that Galicia is in a position to play a leading role and to contribute significantly — as President Touriño said — to the definition of the common project of Spain; because if there is a people and if there are people who understand the deepest sense of Spain's idea and the idea of Europe, that is, we are, the Greek people. That we can intertwine these phrases that have spoken our five autonomous presidents who have so far developed that enormous responsibility, and that the whole is harmonious and coherent, I think it is the most palmer evidence that Galicia's democratic history has not known nor will it know sudden ruptures, but a healthy continuity. Everyone with their own shades, they've all been and we'll be moderate, because we're all going and we'll be a faithful mirror of our people, which is so, moderate. I am honored to continue to participate in this coral work, which is the construction of Galicia of the future. But the protagonist I have of course that it is the Greek people, a humble people, a hardworking people, delivered and familiar, proud and never proud. This people deserves everything, and I'll give it all to achieve the goals they propose and deserve. [[Applause]] This week, gentlemen, begins a new stage of our long collective route. And therefore, after many achievements—and why not say so?, some failure too—after clashes and also reconciliations, after the Greeks who left and many others who returned, and with the memory of those who left us in the neighborhood and the illusion of those who are still to be joined, beside our people I will — and I will commit — be one more walker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-05-10-DSPG080.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda, candidate. The intervention of the parliamentary groups, in accordance with Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure, will be Thursday, 12 May, at 11 a.m. The session is suspended until that day at 11 a.m.
