ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u1	Good morning. The session is resumed. First allow me to greet our guests who are in the gallery, among whom the representatives of the Foundation of the Xitano Secretariat — I will read to an institutional statement according to the agreement reached by the three groups — and also a group of the Town Hall of Cañiza. And, no more, we've already started with the sixth item on the agenda, the question for the oral answer of the president of the board. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures to support the Greek strategic sectors which intend to put in place the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Mr. President of the Galician Union. We are now turning to him the fundamental concern of the Socialist Party in Galicia for the situation in which our autonomous community finds itself, a situation that we can call alarming. Look, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we are the tenth autonomous community in average annual salary, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics — if you wish — to be checked by your communications office. We are the tenth autonomous community in poverty rates, above the national average, with 22.1%. Galicia is the tenth autonomous community in GDP per capita. We are the tenth eighth — including the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla; hence the second by the tail — at the rate of activity. I repeat, the second one in the tail. Galicia has worse IPC data in the past month of February than the Spanish set. And this, Mr Núñez Feijóo, it's not a singularity, it's a tendency. By sectors — by setting only one example — the increase in housing prices is four points higher than that of the state. And these are just some of the indicators of what you've been able to do in 13 years of government, with a model that only made it impoverish the Greeks and the Greeks. And with these vimbies, at the worst moment the autonomous community lives in its recent history, the president of the Galician Union has been campaigning for more than a month, walking — I understand — around Spain and presenting his merits to the country as a great manager. But, look, everything I've just referred to is prior to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. Yesterday, Mrs. Gamarra said, "It's urgent that we get this country from where it is." And I honestly think he was referring to Galicia. But tell me, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, what did you do about what you announced to respond to the consequences of the war in Ukraine? He announced a series of measures at his audience at the middle of the two weeks ago: new lines of Igape availments, direct loans for the manufacturing industry, mechanisms for flexible lending, a pemen energy bonus, a reactivation tourism bonus, helping families in the energy price... how much ad, Mr. Núñez Feijóo! Look, this is the Official State Gazette that publishes the urgent measures that the Government of Spain has taken to deal with this situation. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows two documents from the stage.]] And this is the Official Journal of Galicia that contains its measures. Can you see them? I can't see them either. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Feijóo, how much I announce and what little product! The institutional agenda of the President of the Galician Union for the last two weeks has been almost empty. And, on the contrary, the candidate's agenda—now the president of the People's Party—was full of his own image campaign and to confront the President of the Government of the State. Not a single advisor, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, of guard this weekend in Galicia!, which shows a Away Galician Union, as I said earlier, at the worst moment of our autonomous community. What's the explanation? You are more concerned about the rise and succession of Mr. Nuñez Feijóo than about the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. And my question is, what are the solutions proposed by the Council of Galicia and its great manager in the face of the huge crisis that we are living in? Because you, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, were unable to transfer a single proposal to the Government of the State to include in the national plan the inflationist spiral and because you, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, were unable to fulfil the taxes that the Government of the State claims. You don't know how to do it or intend to do it. And that reinforces the idea that we have: that you are a leader with little discretion to provide constructive measures and with a lot of publicity to make proposals that in practice do not lead to any concrete solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u4	Would you say, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, that with this background is drawn up a solvent project for someone who aspires to be, legitimately, alternative to the Government of the State? You cheat on the Galicians and the Greeks in your commitment to this land. He was present a year and a half ago at the elections, putting Galicia as the most important, and today, Mr. Núñez Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u6	...—Filled, Mr. President—that "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" was transformed into Galicia, Andalusia and a spark from Madrid. What will you do, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, to deal with the situation in this [...]?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u7	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to greet the Gitano Secretariat Foundation. For us it is an honor that you are in Parliament. I want to tell them that "health is freedom," that I understand it's their march and that we share. Thank you very much, too, to the boys and girls of Cañiza school for honoring us also with their presence in the House. Mr. Álvarez, I don't know exactly what the question is, nor do I know exactly what your position is. I did not know, for a moment, whether you want to go to the Congress of Deputies, whether you prefer to go to the Senate or simply have a batiburrillo in your head that does not really know whether Galicia, the Socialist Party, Mr Sánchez, the ministers of Sánchez or simply a member of the opposition. But you'll know exactly what he says. At the poverty rate in Galicia we carried all the legislation under the average in Spain. The price of increasing housing — at a price per square metre — is below the average of Spain. And actually, dwellings in Galicia are much cheaper than in the middle of Spain. And in relation to the commitment and the results in Galicia, because Galicia is the autonomous community that most converged on income from across Spain from 2009 to 2020. So that apocalypse that you concrete must be more of an end of the electoral cycle than a normal period, which is what we are living from the point of view of a government that has not yet reached the equator of legislation. You talk about matters and you suck at what the Government of Spain has done. The Government of Spain did what it did was to increase inflation by 40% in Spain in relation to European Union partners, by 40%! The Government of Spain, for its pride, for not speaking to anyone, was the biggest transport crisis that we have experienced in the last 20s (...), with the depletion of supermarkets, with fish that remained on the farthest sides, with thoughts that did not reach the farms, with fodder that put the animals' lives and prices at risk in food. [[Talk for troubleshooting the record.]] And they come here saying that what we have to copy is the Government of Spain. No, ma'am, I ask you never to copy the current socialist government of Madrid in this Parliament. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I appeared in this House on 22 March on the opposition proposal. We have two councils taking decisions, indeed. This month of April we paid 66,000 families a thermal bonus for more than 250 euros — up to 425 — per family, which the Government of Spain pays zero. We compromise measures for the liquidity of the livestock sector. We were the first autonomous community to approve compensation equal to the elimination of port charges. We were the first autonomous community to inject road transport into the impact that increased the price of gas oil. We mobilize 140 million euros on asset lines and direct loans to the Welsh industry. And we're increasing the expansion of loan payments. It's actually going out in the DOG today — I'm sorry you don't look at the DOG — the bonus-energy for pemes, which means up to 6,000 euros per person to make investments and reduce the price of light. In fact, we inject a tourist bonus and take priority in the field of beef and milk. We have two councils taking decisions, coming into the Chamber, and you're just creating strikes, creating conflicts, creating disasters, and telling gas stations that they have to forward the money that you're unable to anticipate and collapse the Tax Agency. Never in life has the Tax Agency collapsed until you arrived. So, what do you want?, do you want me to copy the lack of sensitivity of the Government of Spain?, do you want me to copy the economic policies that lead to an increase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u10	...of two-digit inflation? Really, Your Honor, would you like me to copy the wrong practices? Mr. Álvarez, let each one exercise his own powers. Tell me an autonomous community of the Socialist Party that had taken some more ambitious action than the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, by itself! Bring me a proposal from the socialist communities on this matter. You're talking about taxes. But do you really not know that we lowered the income tax of physical persons in the Budget Act -- we approved it in December -- and that the income tax of physical persons was lowered in Galicia for all families during this year 2022?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u12	And he says we don't lower the income tax! We lower the income tax, the property tax and the property tax with the "no" of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. How do we propose to lower taxes and not do so, if the first to lower taxes were the People's Parliament's Group in this Parliament? Mr. Álvarez, with all due respect, fulfilling the pacts means lowering taxes. That covenant is solemnly signed at the Conference of Presidents. If you don't lower taxes, you don't follow the pact.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u14	If they don't talk to the carriers, they increase the tension on the roads and supplies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u15	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u16	And what is now, Mr Álvarez, is a government that is the slowest government in Europe with the worst economic policy in Europe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u17	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, don't worry about me, don't worry if I want to be in the Congress of Deputies, if I want to be in the Senate... I'm fine here. Not you, that's the difference. I am well in the Galician Parliament doing what I was voted for, which is to defend, from the viewpoint of the Socialist Party of Galicia, the best policies for the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] You're not here anymore. He's a present body, but his mind isn't in the Galician Parliament or he's been in Galicia for some time. That's nothing new. [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I am not responsible for the data I have given him and that are official data, you are, that's the difference. You're the president of the Galician Union — certainly not for long, and we'll see how this plenary ends and if we face some spectacular announcement or not, that's up to you. But, look, you, as usual, fifteen days ago — we can remember some intervention on fire — were tremendously apocalyptic. Fifteen days ago the country was in a situation — according to some of you — absolutely irresoluble. Not today, that's the reality. I'd like to see you running the government of the state and see what solutions I'd arbitrate to solve all the problems. I wanted to see it, yes, yes, because of course we all know what the solution was going to be: obviously a containment of public expenditure. [[Murmurs.]] And we know the cost of what measures. Look, in the last Councils of Galicia, all you guys did was read and approve reports. But concrete measures you'll tell me what. What's the matter, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo? I didn't expect anything else. You do not answer any of the questions I have raised to you, because, of course, the whole problem is in the government of the state. You're not the president of an autonomous community with a vast level of statutory competence. I wonder who I should address then, Mr. Rueda? You, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, are not already thinking about the problems of the Galicians and the Greeks. And I am very sorry that all the measures taken by the Government of the State are not satisfactory for you. It turns out that they are satisfactory for the society to which they are directed, and that is where they solve the problems. Of course, solving the problems for both Greek and Spanish citizenship is a problem for the People's Party. I know that too. It's the abecé. But the point is that all those measures that have been taken will solve the problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u20	The question is, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who you will now leave the Government. Actually, he left him a few months ago. But, look, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, this one I just exposed to is reality and it's a sad summary for such a long syncuration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u21	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close this question, President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u22	With all courtesy, Mr. Álvarez, he says he would like to see me presiding over the Government of Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Álvarez, that has to be decided by the Spanish group, but I thank you for your unconditional support and solemn support in this House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Certainly, Your Honor, what I would never do is lie to the Spaniards and would not issue a royal decree with a title saying: Measures to alleviate the crisis of the Ukrainian war. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll never do that, Your Honor. To deceive people, to deceive all people and to deceive their conscience is not part of any conscientious politician. [[Applause]] Your honor, before your policies, which led us to this exponential increase in public debt, this lack of predictability in energy prices, this frivolity in energy transition policies, you closed Alcohol, Vestas left Galicia, the thermal power plants closed. In the automobile they're making PERTE that's not good for the big automotive builders. You're closing down the only paper pulp industry in Galicia. You guys have a historic increase in the price of light as never in forty years of democracy, and we've had an inflation that's the largest in the last thirty-five years. This is your economic policy and you're here to teach me economic policy lessons? Tell me that since this royal decree has been passed, all the problems of Spain have been solved, although no one has earned a euro of that real decree except the people of the gas stations, who have to forward money because you are unable to do things with a minimum of rigor and planning. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals which you approved by the Galician Council raise EUR 500 million — exactly EUR 504.5 million —. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this doesn't matter to you. You don't come to control the Government of the Union, you come to campaign for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's a constant and continuous problem of your policies, I'm actually the branch of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia. And the problem of the Socialist Party in Galicia is that Galicia is useless. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that in this last reply you insist on supporting what is not possible for you. I repeat: you rule in many autonomous communities. Can you tell me a proposal from some autonomous socialist community that it is better than the proposals that this Government has approved? None. Valence? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, please, with all due respect... we'll be respectful of other autonomous parliaments, but, look, we're taking down taxes on the Galician Union down 1,100 million to the Greeks. We have just made another decision at the end of last year by going back down the income of all the Greeks, and today the Greeks pay 400 euros less income than when you rule — 403 euros less income than when you rule —. And you always vote against every time we lower taxes to people, every time you leave a little more money in your pockets. [[Murmurs.]] And now he's giving me lessons in lower taxes. But, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the pockets of the Greeks and all the Spaniards, 60 billion more euros of VAT were collected last year. You know why? Because it all went up by 7%. And, therefore, the collection on a taxable basis that continues to rise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u24	And instead of leaving money to people, who have to increase their efforts to buy more expensive and, consequently, to pay more taxes, you're still using taxes to make a coalition policy with a populist government and absolutely independent partners. I mean, they need all the money they can make to put it in their territories. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u25	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u26	Look, I came to the House, we made decisions in two consecutive governments and said we didn't make any decisions, just reports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u28	But don't you even listen to what we approve of in the council? Do you think four bills are reports? Four bills in five weeks are reports? Look, Your Honor, with all due respect, Mr. Álvarez, I think today is not your best day, I say it with total cordiality. In any case, if I thank you for your support to experience what would happen if you were President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u29	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u30	I thank you very much, from my heart. I can assure you that I would never lie to the Spaniards. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u31	Thank you. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the situation of the German Government
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u32	Good morning, gentlemen. I also want to welcome you to the Georgian Secretariat Foundation and to the student from Cañiza, who today honor us with their presence. And, Mr. Feijóo, I want to congratulate you as the new president of the People's Party. You have chosen to pursue your personal and political ambitions and, as no one else would be lacking, it is free to do so. But, above all personal ambition, or any political ambition, it has to be about Galicia. And you miss Galicia while remaining President of the Union but taking care of the affairs of the People's Party and with a paralysed government, which is not giving answers to the Greeks and the Greeks in the worst price crisis in thirty-seven years, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Because when the boats were tied or the people were throwing milk or watching how the fish might rot, where was it, Mr. Feijóo? You were rallying in the folk party's rally and doing what was best for you, which is throwing balloons out, looking for guilty and not being able to give solutions. Because, by a lot of propaganda, there is one thing that is real: you have taken no measure of silence, no solution to the problems in this country, nothing at all, Mr Feijóo! And he said it again now: his big contribution is to lower taxes, but to lower taxes to those who have the most, which is what the People's Party has done over the past 13 years. And as taxes were lowered to those who had the most, tripled their public debt, cut into health, education and public services, allowed them to do business with the right to a decent old age, emigrated 22,000 boys and girls or lost thousands of jobs in industry, in fishing or in agriculture. [[Applause]] Yeah, you keep insisting on that old failed recipe on the right, which is to lower taxes, but you don't want to hear about raising taxes to the electricians. Because there are those who escape this crisis: the friends of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Clearly, you have already fulfilled your great personal ambition, it is evident that you are already installed in Madrid as formally as President of the Union, and it is clear that for you Galicia is no more than an electoral slogan — now expired—. I do not know whether this will be your last control session in this Parliament, Mr Feijóo, but I believe that for once, with regard to the citizenship of this country, you must clarify until you maintain an interim and paralysed government in the board of Galicia. I don't know if he'll answer us. In any case, there is one thing that is very clear, and it is that, for the first time in our history, the Greeks and the Greeks will not have a president they have elected, they will have a president appointed by finger, appointed by a finger of you, Mr. Feijóo — always and when he is able to match the internal Sudoku of the People's Party's Barons—. This, Mr. Feijóo, is your brooch. [[Applause]] That's how it's gonna close 13 years, when it leaves us a Galician in a worse situation than you've ever seen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u34	Not bad enough, Your Honor, that Cañiza's boys are also aware of all the things you say. Where were we during the transport strike? You're ruling with the Socialist Party, we're opening safe corridors to be able to get livers out of the country and to be able to supply the farms and maintain the lives of animals, you're partners in the person responsible for the transport strike by not talking to the transporters and you're saying one thing here and another. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In public debt we are the autonomous community that has less increased public debt, and having to listen to this is absolutely surprising. He says in this Parliament there will be no president elected by the people. Your Honor, this lack of respect for the parliamentary democracy of Galicia is due to what? Did the presidents who were not from the PP ever win the elections? Were these two presidents, one in motion of censure and one after losing the election, not elected by this Parliament without being the most voted in the polls? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, stop fooling people, because until the last moment you'll continue to insist on cheating, cheating, as if people don't realize it and you don't really realize that Galicia deserves a government that has freely chosen in the polls. And the polls said the government was from the People's Party. They said it in 2009 and they keep saying it today. And there will be a government of the People's Party with a president or a president of the People's Party of Galicia until 2024, Your Honor. That is the summary of the country's democratic summary. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you assume organic responsibilities of a national party... you also say you are responsible for a national party. [[Murmurs.]] We're tied up. Look, Your Honor, how I decided to assume those responsibilities for organic responsibility and for responsibility with Spain, I also decided not to share them with the President of the Council of Galicia. [[Laughter]] And that's a firm decision I made public months ago. I've been president of the People's Party for forty-eight hours and you've been asking for my resignation since before, you haven't even introduced me. Plus, you're saying my goal has been to go to Madrid since 2003. He'll understand that his apocalyptic speech is out of date once again. [[Applause]] But I just want to tell you, Mrs. Pontón, that things have to be thought about and done well. Remember when you opened a reflection process to see whether or not you were going to be a spokesperson for the BNG? He left us completely restless throughout Galicia. He opened a reflection process in August which he closed in October, and the truth is that no one's messed with you. [[Murmurs.]] BNG didn't go into crisis. No, no, if you want to reopen another reflection process, open it again. [[Murmurs.]] What I'm telling you is, from August to October, you've been thinking about whether or not you wanted to be the leader of the BNG. [[Murmurs.]] And I won't wear out those months, Your Honor. I take responsibility for it in weeks with Galicia, and my responsibility with Galicia right now is to leave it to a companion or a companion of the People's Party of Galicia. That's my responsibility and I've always fulfilled my responsibilities with the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u36	That's why the country, whenever I had the opportunity to make myself available, gave me that vote of confidence. Your Honor, we've passed four laws in these months, four! We improve all public services with decisions each of them meditated on, we approved the strategic plan of the Greek economy by 2030. Therefore, Your Honor, with us personal reflections have nothing to do with the ordinary functioning of the Government. But, as you can imagine, I'm used to being criticized for everything. After 13 years of criticism for everything, you will understand that this is simply a (...)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u38	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u39	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u40	Look, Mr Feijóo, I regret that until the last moment you have to come to this Parliament first to get angry and, secondly, to always miss personal respect. Of course you'll never get me in that politics. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Prosequent murmuring.]] Yes, yes, and, at last, we see that the fault of everything that happens in the Spanish state is the BNG. It's just that it's an argumentative level, Mr. Feijóo, which, of course, shows that you're not so happy with what your government is doing. Because he comes to the end of his last moments here as president of the board by opposing the opposition, as opposed to the BNG, instead of explaining to us what he really did to help people at this moment, and not with propaganda, but with real measures. Because the truth, Mr. Feijóo, is that not a single measure has arrived at the families and businesses of this country. All he sees is his propaganda day after day. And of course there are a lot of alternatives that could be put in place. And I want to leave you here for your successor the BNG proposals. First, a Welsh electric fare, because those of this blue bank are the only ones who don't understand that the Greeks and the Greeks have to benefit from the electricity wealth in our country. [[Murmurs.]] Secondly, urgent aid that reaches all affected sectors. Third, raise the taxes to the electrics. Fourth, end the fallen benefits of the sky. Fifth, Mr. Feijóo, lower the rates of the highways. And, sixth, raising the lowest pensions, complementing non-contributory and all those aids, including risk, which at present can relieve the situation of many people. And, Mr Feijóo, as a last question, if I may allow the President of Parliament, it is a lack of respect that he does not say in this House and that he does not clarify how much longer a temporary and paralysed government will remain pending its succession in this country. I think the only explanation is that you want to leave everything tied and well tied and that the waters of the People's Party don't have a calm as apparent as they want to make you see. Yes, yes, and what we see again is that they put the People's Party above Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Because there's one thing that stays between Feijóo's old PP and Feijóo's new PP, and it's that the People's Party is always ahead of Galicia. And the Greeks and the Greeks, the lords, the Greeks and the Greeks can have the tranquillity that there is an alternative to the future. Because from the BNG we're going to work, in the opposition or where they say we have to be, to get this country forward. [[Murmurs.]] Because we don't have to choose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u41	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u42	I don't know if I can keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u43	Yes, you can. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u44	Yes. You know why? Because we don't have to choose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u45	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u46	No, no. We've been, we're and we'll always be in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u47	Thank you. Close this question, President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u48	Your Honor, why do you take offense every time I say you rule with the Socialist Party? Is that a lack of respect or is it just a description of reality? Why do you blame me for the inflationary impact of the economy when you know that the economic policies of your partners are nonsense? Why not criticize the Socialist Party by saying that it is not acceptable that Spain has 40% more inflation than European Union partners? Why, Your Honor, do not take your responsibility too and tell the Secretary General of the Socialist Party to keep three posts, three! — Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, mayor of the Council of the Bridges and president of all mayors of the Coruña. Why don't you really dare tell your partner what he asks me not to have any incompatibility? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why do you really make such a childly speech when Galicia is so big? Why does he come here to say that we can raise taxes to electricity when he knows it's fake? Why do you come to say that Galician boys are leaving when since we got to the government more boys — 18 to 34 — who have returned to Galicia than they left? Why so small and childish politics? Why can't you just accept the democratic rules that you can't choose but that you lose your election because Galicia doesn't choose them? And when they had the opportunity to rule Galicia, still losing the elections, and when this parliamentary group missed a seat for the absolute majority, they elected the president and said he was the most democratic president in the country because he was elected by Parliament. And now it turns out that Parliament cannot elect the president of a government and a parliamentary group that has won the elections consistently. Why are their practices democratic and those we win elections not able to exercise democracy, the law of the Union and its president and the Rules of Procedure of the House? Why is Greek nationalism like that? Why, Your Honor? "Then open a period of reflection to decide whether to continue ahead of the BNG." [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. President of the Galician Union reads a document.]] Two months of reflection. I've been president of the People's Party for seventy-two hours and it turns out I can't even reflect. [[Murmurs.]] But, Your Honor, is this really a joke, or do you think the Greeks are still stupid when we don't vote for the BNG?Oh, my God! With all due respect... Look: "I'm going to give my best to have an alternative." That's very good, Your Honor. If you wanted quota in the quiet waters of the BNG, you can see that you haven't made it. Because you are the spokesperson for the BNG—end of the quote—but the policies of the BNG do not carry them, you carry the spokesperson. And this government carries the policies of the Government and this government governs. He's been ruling all the time and will continue to rule quietly, with measure, with respect and putting Galicia above all, Mrs. Pontón. Above all! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, if you think I don't have any respect for Galicia, why do you think I'm willing to leave the most important position I've had in my life? Because I have respect for Galicia. Why do you think I understand that being President of the Board has to be full-time, and without losing a minute in any different planning? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I have respect for Galicia. Why do you think, after the Greeks voted for us for four legislates consecutively, increasing support and percentage of vote and, therefore, trust, I won't steal from Galicia for a minute? Because for me Galicia is all. Why do you think, Your Honor, that I was president of the board and I'm still president of the board? Because the Greeks voted for me. And doesn't it seem reasonable to you that the party that votes for the Greeks, that party, has to make decisions when it considers it appropriate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u50	But in any case, Mrs. Pontón, you won't propose to me or mark what I have to do, because I have done what I considered appropriate for Galicia for a long time and the Greeks have embraced it. And as I continue to do what I consider appropriate, I will continue to work with the same commitment, the same rigour and the same seriousness with the country. And I'm going to take on my responsibilities, but I said it when he started to sound like he was a candidate during my candidacy and I say it today, seventy-two hours after assuming the presidency of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u52	Your Honor, I'm not going to waste the time you've been thinking about whether or not you were presenting for leadership of the BNG. No, you've spent months, I'll spend weeks. And if you want a council, Mrs Pontón, go ahead and prepare the investment debate, because I already tell you that in that investment debate a fellow of the People's Party and this parliamentary group will elect the president and you will lose the investment debate again. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u53	Thank you. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u54	I'm going to read the statement I mentioned earlier, and that says like this: "We celebrate, one more year, on April 8, the International Day of the Shit People, a celebration commemorating the 1st Georgian World Congress, held in London in 1971, in which the symbols of the Gypsy people were adopted: the blue and green flag with a red wheel and the Gelem hymn. In Spain it was in 2018, at the request of the Congress of Deputies, when the recognition of April 8 as the Day of the People of the Shitano took place, as well as the use of the flag and the Gypsies anthem. On 8 April, International People's Day, it is time to commit ourselves as a society, as a country, to the full equality of the Gypsies and the Gypsies, equality since the recognition of diversity and the value of a cultural identity itself that is part of our shared history and culture. More and more institutions and people add year by year to this celebration in a symbolic gesture of recognition. But despite progress, Gypsies and gypsies are still behind and the long distance from the rest of society in the enjoyment of fundamental rights, such as decent employment, quality education, decent housing or the right not to be discriminated against. One reason for celebrating this 8 April is the adoption last November of the new national strategy of equality, inclusion and participation of the Gypsy people 2021-2030, a specific political framework that stems not only from the recognition of the situation of inequality and discrimination of the Roma population and the need to give a structural response to this situation, but also from progressing in the momentum of participation and recognition of the Gypsy people in our society and institutions. Another recent institutional milestone of relevance was the launching of the sub-committee for the study of the state pact against anti-xitanism and the inclusion of the Roma people in the Congress of Deputies and the beginning of the appearances for the preparation of the report that would enable a state pact to be achieved. These are two very relevant features that shape the political and institutional framework to advance the equality, inclusion and participation of the Gypsy people. The celebration of the International People's Day 2022 arrives in a terrible context of international conflict, with the Russian military invasion of Ukraine, and we cannot ignore what is happening at the borders of the European Union. So this year we want April 8 as well as a heartfelt tribute to all the people who are suffering in the first person the consequences of this war, both in Ukraine and in neighbouring countries, and especially the Ukrainian Gypsy community, which we know in many cases is being treated discriminatoryly. The Gypsy people are characterized by their solidarity, their unity, their shared identity and their ties beyond the borders. And we know that in crises there are always more difficulties that are in a situation of greater vulnerability, such as Gypsies and Gypsies. That's why we want to appeal to solidarity with all the victims of this war, also with the Ukrainian Gypsy people, and to share the claim of a just society based on rights and freedoms, democratic values, equal opportunities and social cohesion for the Gypsy people and for the whole of society. We live in a context of difficulties — crisis, pandemic, war — but we cannot assume a step back in the progress that we have made in guaranteeing rights and opportunities for the Gypsy people in Spain and Europe. That's why the steps taken in institutional recognition — and the 8th of April commemoration is one of them — must also be translated into concrete measures to reduce inequality, combat discrimination and anti-Citrusism and advance in the rights and citizenship of the Gypsy people. Happy April 8th." [[Approved by consent.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Well, they would realize that all spokespersons said -- they might not understand me well -- "a Cañiza school group." It wasn't a Cañiza school group, but I'm glad they made them new for a day. It was a group from the Town Hall of Cañiza, and they were welcome to Parliament. This happens to anyone, it remains justified. [[Murmurs.]] It doesn't matter any more. We're still on the agenda. Agenda change. Accumulation, for its joint debate, of two non-legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u55	Non-law proposals Nos 32,136 and 32,195 shall be collected for discussion in accordance with Article 162.2 of the Regulation. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and 13 other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis resulting from the conflict in Ukraine G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People in Galicia, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Government of the State for certain urgent measures to minimize the socio-economic consequences of the invasion of Ukraine in companies and citizens, and on the implementation by the Galician Union of measures in the field of its competences
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u56	A amendment — a self-amendment — of the Galician Socialist Group was tabled at the first. And the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group was also presented with a self-amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u57	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. We are faced with a situation that shows that virtually nothing we saw as safe and what we considered true in our model as a society is, a situation caused by an invasion — obviously illegal and that violates international law — of Russia on Ukraine that has just changed in an absolutely drastic way — we are now speaking strictly from an economic point of view — our reality. We're at the worst of the situations we could have imagined, or, better said, that we couldn't even imagine more than a month and a half ago. The truth is we've already set off from a weaker situation in our autonomous community. I already know that Mr. President of Galicia does not like data that are unfavorable to the autonomous community, which I understand perfectly from a political point of view, but I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen of both the PSdEG and the BNG, but particularly of the People's Party of Galicia, that the data I have referred to are data that you can contrast, in case I have said something that is not true or that is not published in the different statistical institutes. Because the reference to which we are the tenth autonomous community in average annual wages is true; that we are the tenth autonomous community at risk of poverty is true, unfortunately; that we are the tenth autonomous community in GDP per inhabitant is true — and there will be no need to do here a doctoral thesis on the meaning of this data, especially in view of the reduction of population—; that we are the eighteenth autonomous community at rate of activity, the penultimate, is true; that Galicia has the worst IPC data already in February that the rest of the state is true. All this, ladies, it's true. I can understand that it's not data that prides any government, and particularly no president of the autonomous community, as much as it's on the exit lane of this government. But unfortunately we faced a government of the Galician Union that is acting equally — and therefore by replicating these practices — as it did during the pandemic. During the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the Government of the State had to face an absolutely unprecedented situation. We had to make ourselves up. And while the State Government was providing solutions, the Galician Union was opposing. Now, in view of the measures the Government has approved to deal with the economic situation arising from the war in Ukraine, the same thing is happening: there is a government that acts and there is a Union of Galicia in opposition. He's making opposition but with an important difference, and we all know at this point that the Galician Union itself, the President of the Galician Union, now President of the People's Party, has not been able to make a single proposal for a solution to the problems. [[Applause]] The only contribution is destructive criticism, accompanied unfortunately on many occasions by a chorus of laughter that precedes a ridicule of the political adversary. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not worthy of any president as much as he wants to appear a seriousness and a solvency of which he unfortunately lacks, and which unfortunately it will take very little to show up within the state. [[Applause]] On the contrary, the Socialist Party in Galicia proposes a number of urgent measures which must be, or should be, approved by this Parliament, and which you know because they are part of our non-law proposal. First of all, we call for a plan for the special bonus of autonomous taxes to be paid during this year 2022 directly related to activities carried out by companies, small businesses, microenterprises and workers affected by this conjunctural situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of selling a catalogue of tax relief measures that we all know who has benefited the most, which, of course, as far as it is said, is not the generality of the Greeks and the Greeks. We call for cooperation with the Government of Spain to reduce the tax on hydrocarbons either by acting on the special tax on hydrocarbons or on the application of a reduced-type VAT. We asked the Galician Council for a reduction in the autonomic section of the IRPF for those people who, being not obliged to file a statement of income, are subject to retention, and negotiate with the State a discount on it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you realise that in our proposal for a non-law there are proposals for the Government of Galicia, but also for the Government of the State — differently from what you present, where everything is mandatory for the Government of the State — or to establish at best an area of negotiation and study within the autonomous community to deal with this situation? This is the difference, and as much as Mr. Núñez Feijóo — today's president on the brake lane — he begins to say that we are the only ones who do it is to replicate and cover the policies of the Government of the State, the reality shown by this non-law proposition is quite different. We call for an extraordinary aid plan for autonomous persons, who are — according to official data and the lack of the People's Party to present another particular data— 216,832 in the autonomous community; a specific aid plan for the marine-fishing sector of the sea-industry chain, which employs 20,300 people; a direct aid plan directed to the agricultural and livestock sector affected by the increase of fuels and inputs — for 47,100 people —; further strengthening — budgetly — aid for the most vulnerable or at risk of social exclusion; increasing the social electric bond; we want a transitional reduction — because that is not the objective that the PSdeG demands — of the weights of self-investment highways — the objective, I repeat, is freeness; we ask that the Government of Spain negotiate with the concessionary authorities, in particular, the AP-9. We are asking for and presenting a concrete plan to economically compensate the transport professionals for a full bonus. In addition, we accounted for nine thousand seven hundred companies that would benefit from 36,000 liters of subsidised fuel at 50%. We call for an exemption from port charges until an effective recovery of the sector is achieved. I know you're going to tell me they're approved until July 30. Now, the question is: is the situation going to be different on July 1st? We ask that the Galician Union, through Igape, enable a fund of assets and liquidity to ensure the viability of the companies concerned. We call for an identification and a normative impulse to determine by the Galician Board strategic projects aimed at raising energy self-sufficiency at low cost, both at home and in industrial supply. We call for the creation of a financial instrument for participation from the autonomous administration itself and the development of strategic projects as they did at the time in Reganosa. We want the Economic and Social Council to produce an urgent report on the impact of this new situation on the most affected sectors. And we ask that the administrative procedures to carry out all these measures be simplified to the fullest extent within the legal framework allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we frankly believe these are responsible proposals. Proposals which should not always remain ambiguous in the field of meetings and studies, to see how we do, as we do not do, to see what measures we implement. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I already know that Mr. President of the Board did not like -- and I am sorry, because it was not my intention to upset him -- but the fact is that we have a government that has published a series of comprehensive measures in a real decree, and we have a government in the board of Galicia that only makes it announce without concrete. And frankly, I don't think we're at the moment to be studying too many things, we're at the moment that we must act in a determined way to deal with this new situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I tried yesterday, taking advantage of the BNG motion, to explain the complexity of the problem of inflation and thus frame today's debate. I believe that inflation in Spain is fundamentally explained, in addition to the differential with Europe, by the differential of the cost of energy, also by specific rigidities of the Spanish economy; we have the complexity of what is supply and demand, and we also — which has not been mentioned — that inflation rises significantly long before the Russian invasion of Ukraine. We know that there is a situation of temporary uncertainty, that the European Central Bank — which has the fundamental monetary competences — has the dilemma of further boosting growth, which implies the growth of inflation, or, on the contrary, it has to decide to fight against inflation, with which it will close the bill of credit. It's already being announced, for example, with the evolution of the euribor. And there is therefore an important dilemma for monetary authorities. We know that the effects are random, and the debtors — and, among them, the state — take advantage of inflation, the creditors lose. And we know that taxation benefits the state, no less than 1,700 million euros of extra collection for each additional point of inflation. And I didn't succeed. The truth is that Mrs. Presas, who is usually very cautious in her statements, yesterday questioned the same Keynes when she said it was a lottery the effects of inflation. And I understand that the problem is not to question Keynes, but the point is not to understand the phenomenon of inflation. It's just that it's closer to each other than a company that in recent years has capitalized and has not resorted to credit to clean up its accounts, and a person who only has the income of a rent from a flat; they're in the same situation if this rent is agreed and cannot be indexed. And they have these two much more in common than an entrepreneur who's resorted to credit and that a person who has the same income, low, and a single rent that's actually indexed to inflation. So to understand all of this, I understand that it's complicated, but the truth is we understand that this complexity is necessary to make an analysis and to make proposals. I said yesterday — I insist — the main problem is electricity, the differential of Spain. And by the way, yesterday too, it was questioned that in Galicia inflation increases more than in all of Spain, just a few tenths. And if you pick up the data -- which you see now because some people handle -- and you see the breakdown of the basket weight in Galicia, you'll see that exactly what's suffering from a higher price rise -- as you can see from the difference between total inflation and underlying inflation -- that is, fresh food and fuel, has a weight on the basket of the purchase of the Greeks above that of Spain's whole. Which explains that differential that comes — I insist again — mainly because of the price of energy. Finally, a complexity, so that the solutions undergo changes in monetary policy, customs policy, which depend on the European Union, income policy and energy policy, which depend on the Government of Spain competently, and to a large extent also competition policy. And that, therefore, — this is an objective fact — requires a joint action by all administrations, starting with the European Union and going down to the Government of Spain, which also represents Spain in the European Union, and, of course, with the Union working together. The autonomic margin is more limited. Certainly, we collaborate with the state. You think, Mr. Álvarez, when he says that no decision has been made, that it was Mr. Núñez Feijó that proposed an agreement at the Conference of Presidents, which, as he said today, is being breached because the agreement included the discharge of taxes that are absent from the famous decree you just said. Of course, by talking to sectors for selective help, which is being done by Junta. And, therefore, everything else is to criticize the Union without having too much cause. The Board reacted quickly and reasonably well, and also quickly. He reacted so quickly that the best metaphor of that quick reaction was the races that we put out the three spokespersons when we admitted the presence of the president in the full past, precisely to expose all the measures that the next Thursday's board of directors was going to take. So fast that 15 days ago he announced a lot of measures. While you keep saying that the president has his head off, here he introduced and agreed at the Conference of Presidents measures for consensus for the Spanish assembly. He compared himself to the camera to expose the measures, he dialogued with the sectors, and we took two advices approving the measures. And precisely those measures which you approved by the Council, in the GNP which I am defending today are twenty-eight proposals for action against inflation. You said that the Union only proposes to the state, and they are fourteen directed to the state and fourteen directed to the Union. Of course, we're not going to ask the state to do what Joina has to do. As you were in an LNP, which was subsequently withdrawn, in which they asked the Board to lower its rates and also subsidize the rates of the state highways. We are going competitively, and many of the things we ask the state to do are not to be done by the Government of Spain, but to demand that the European Union have room for action at its own national level. We believe they are measures appropriate to the complex situation. The speed that is needed, because yesterday we saw, for example, the IRPF, that would have no effect until within a year and would therefore have little effect on incomes in the present, and of course the needs of the sectors to which you listened. We call for a drop in the taxes on electricity to the state, centred — I insist, with yesterday's scheme — on the main factor that affects prices, which is the fall in energy; a drop in the taxes on electricity, gas, gasoline and diesel, in particular the special tax on hydrocarbons; an over-reduced tax rate of 4% on natural gas, urging the European Commission to amend the directive which allows also to lower the tax on added value and special hydrocarbon tax; of course, extending the tax measures adopted to mitigate the escalation of the electricity bill to the end of the year; generating for the maritime-fishing sector measures similar impact with tax reductions; and correcting the abrupt energy policy, which is the fundamental problem of the Spanish economy, to be a planned, proportional and fair transition. But we also ask the board to activate the Social Thermal Bond, which is already given to the beneficiaries with 100 euros added after the board's approval on Thursday, 30 March. And we also ask you to strengthen the active measures in the Energy Saving Plan for families, expand the Renova program of the automobile to encourage the purchase of efficient vehicles, activate the pemen energy bonus and extraordinary injection to shield public transport by road against the rise of fuels. In the second area of fiscal policy, we ask the state to reverse the generalized increase in taxes that were expected, for example, the introduction of new taxes on highways; apply a real co-governance of the next generation recovery funds in PERTE as important as it may be for Galicia as it can be for automotive or as it may also be for production with green hydrogen energy; apply the changes of budgetary credits through the way of expenditure to reduce unproductive spending. We also call for structural adjustments to the state: to promote a national plan of strategic products that ensure that there is no shortage; to intensify the flexibility of public procurement regulations, which we have already moved forward — precisely because inflation was already rising — in the Law on measures, and that the State has not yet resolved, so that many of them are paralyzing; to apply temporary flexibility in the regulatory measures to limit the import of raw materials, and this is essential for the conservation industry due to the shortage of vegetable oils. And finally, as a fourth block, you help sectors. So the state we ask you to improve the inter-annual flexibility of fishing quotas. And we also ask the Union — particularly in the sector area of the Union — to help small and medium-sized enterprises with a new line of goods, specific measures for the most affected sectors in which we are talking: transport, electro-intensive, fishing, agribusiness and tourism. Here we call for an analysis of the inclusion in the measures of exemptions from social security contributions to avoid precisely costs added to businesses and therefore redundancies; to develop a direct Igape loan programme for the manufacturing industry; to activate the tourism bonus, which is already activated, and in addition to having a great success in one of the sectors that have suffered the most during the crisis — which some have now seem to have forgotten to include this as a measure, saying it is an insult to the rest of the sectors—; to inject liquidity into the gain sector through the financing of the circular; to create the observatory of the Greek food chain; to create the information and food control agency of Galicia; to launch the dairy observatory; to activate economic and administrative measures serving as compensation for professionals; and to inject liquidity into the sea sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing about negationism is to deny the evidence. It was said here that Galicia is the tenth community in GDP per capita, but when we started the century we were the penultimate. In recent years, since 2008, per capita GDP has converged from 87.6 to 90.3; since 2000 we were 77. You mentioned Valencia today, because Valencia in 2000 was 95% of per capita GDP, and today it's 77; we've been ahead of Valencia in recent years, in the years of Mr. Feijóo's government. So let's put things in perspective. I believe that in this debate there is too much criticism to the Board, because it reacted quickly and well. I think there is too much ideology in the proposals. I think there's too much opportunism in criticism, when there's a general coincidence that the Government of Spain has been slow and the Union, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u62	...acted within their powers quickly. So we are going to bring this GNP, which is weighted and balanced, and which we believe shows that we are head-on in the problems affecting Galician citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u63	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. I would also like to begin with a reflection on the moment we are. Don't start with me, Madam President, the time that started a second ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u65	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u66	As it progressed, I would also like to begin by making some reflection about the moment we are at and the analysis a little of the context in which we move to also enter the debate towards where we want to go. And the truth is that there seems to be a coincidence in the diagnosis that we are at a very worrisome, very complex moment of all points of view, in which our country has to respond to a situation of a price-throwing up which results in very important consequences in the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks and, in general, in the economic environment. I wanted to point out that there are problems that were already there before. There was a more intense and continuing inflation than expected many months ago, there was an energy crisis that had come from far away, there was an important crisis also of materials and there was also the impact of the different waves of the coward-19, which although the latter, omicron, was more controlled, always had an impact. Now we see that, in fact, the war of Ukraine exacerbates this context, but I want to insist again that the problems come from quite before a month and a half, right? And also, they come from far away factors that make our ability to resist less. And the truth is, in fact, we have lived in these times things that were not safe or predictable, but, of course, we also experience this with the problem of not having anticipation when we have a stronger economic model. It was said here that, indeed, inflation is complex and affectation is different from different areas and sectors. That's objectively so, but I wanted to insist on a question. Of course we understand, some with more limitations on our cognitive capabilities than others, which is the phenomenon of inflation. But there's another question I wanted to insist on. What we're living right now, the detonator is inflation; at other times, the detonator was a pandemic or the detonator was a financial bubble. But of course, what is cyclical is every now and then a fundamental and profound crisis in the economic system in which we live, which is the underlying problem of that neoliberal and capitalist economic system. Making a similar with a topical theme like fossil fuels, which every certain time comes into crisis, is unsustainable in the long term and ends up destroying territories and lives. So we want to insist that we are living a moment in which we already know what the effect will be at the general level, which is what it was in the previous cyclical crises: who was worse will continue to be worse, who was better will continue to be enriched, it will become richer and, of course, who will pay the duck will be the territories and will be the most punished social majority. And even more so in this country, in which we add to our reaction capacity an absolutely exhausted autonomous framework and a state centralism that does not cease to operate in any crisis, but that every crisis is one more step in that centralism. So this is the perfect storm that conditions us right now. We also see that we have an economy that was already damaged by the consequences of the pandemic, the weaknesses of an economic and productive model that did not close productive cycles in this country and which was also deeply damaged by the 2008 crisis. We are affected and affected by an industrial crisis that came from far away and also by the growing social inequality, because it is no less for a country to face this situation with 25% of its population at risk of social exclusion than with another economic situation. And, therefore, we have a first-order economic and social problem that, in addition, if it didn't start with the Ukrainian crisis, it won't end even if it ends on tomorrow. In fact, the employer — given yesterday's data — felt that this would not be solved until 2024-2025 as the IMF itself or the European Central Bank itself is in 2024, which is back to normal inflation around two percent. So we can't cheat on loneliness as if this was a matter that we can solve with emergency measures and not structural changes. And once again, as the pandemic has shown us, there will be many issues in the paintshop that we have to address as a country and that it can be seen that neither from the scope of the Union nor from the scope of the state is willing to do so. In any case, we are at the time of urgency, at the time of applying immediate palliatives. And the truth is, what we've been thinking since the BNG is that they're not up to either the Central Government or the United States Government. He said the socialist spokesman that there is a government that acts and another that makes opposition. I hope, because, of course, at least if one of the parts of our view was taking more courageous measures, the impact would be lower; but in any case, we agree with the criticism of the Union, and we will focus on that area because this is the Greek Parliament, and of course, what we will not allow is that they remain exempt from their responsibility. We have made it clear that in the long term the goal that we have to move, the direction that should guide all policies that are going to arbitrate is basically twofold: an exit to this price crisis that was fair, on the one hand, to the social majority of Galicia and, on the other hand, to Galicia as a country as well. Because the truth is that we have to see that we are a rich country, a country rich in energy resources, a country rich in talent, a country rich in potential in areas as strategic at the moment as the primary sector, with absolutely brutal producing potential. So it's a nonsense that we're still impoverished and impoverished. And this crisis can't be faked like the previous two, making us worse and worse. And just like, when there was a pandemic, we didn't blame the Government of the United States or the Government of the State for its emergency, which is clear that at the moment there are causes that are not directly provoked, but there are responsibilities in how it is acting. First, because I haven't acted before. And I think energy is one of the great examples, the debate on the question of gas and geopolitical tensions has been with us for a year; no action has been taken before and now we have paid a lower reaction capacity. It's also been a long time since this country is a leader in the production of renewables, for example, and that this role is not compensated. Both governments are also responsible for not acting promptly now and, what is worse, also acting so that, in the end, the measures taken end up filling the pockets of those who are most benefiting from this situation. And it seems that the measures taken by the large Ibex 35 companies will return to immune. And if in 2008 the big bank was rescued, which, by the way, we keep paying that bill of over a hundred billion euros, it seems now that what we're going to pay is the very rescue of the Ibex 35 companies, whose benefits, by the way, do not stop growing year by year. This is basically the underlying problem and what explains the different lack of political will. What happens is, as long as this happens, our country's situation gets worse and we see, for example, more than half of the Greek homes, 51%, it's hard or very hard at the end of the month. And we also see how there are factors that make our economy, even though it seems to be less permeable to the crisis in Ukraine, because it is also having important effects, particularly because of the weight of the intensive industry, by the weight of the primary sector, by the high dependence of maritime and road trade, by the territorial dispersion and the lack of public transport worthy of that name, etc. The point is that the Union is not acting in the field of its competences, in the areas it should have, with the readiness it should have and, of course, is ignoring in addition, as if it were the great pink elephant that is in the room and that nobody wants to see, that the inflation data are telling us that it is more intense in our country month by month or by comparing the data interannually. What does that mean? That we get impoverished faster, that the Greeks and the Greeks are getting worse and that there is a government that closes its eyes and looks elsewhere. And in view of that, we insist that this is a problem that requires political solutions and that has scope for political action. That is why we urge the proposals that we incorporate into our amendment, which is already a little overstepped in this context of permanent self-amendments, because there is an absolutely extraordinary context that should be answered with extraordinary measures. And we have to get out a little bit of this loop or this pim, pam, pom where the Government of the Union is just making itself a commentator and a Tertullian of the measures the state takes, and the Government of the State is going at a pace that seems too slow and worrying to us, and what it does because there really is a fundamental problem. And the basic problem is that in the roadmap it is turning to the framework of the deficit in stability — they are warning the European bodies that they have to come back there — and there is also a framework that we cannot ignore, which is all that conditionality and that hidden agenda linked to European funds, and which we know will affect our capacity as a country in terms of self-government, which will affect the public pension system, which will affect the employment framework; we still do not know exactly what measures will involve, but, of course, that is in substance and that is why no more measures are taken and no more vigorous measures are taken. And on the issues that are presented today in the demands of the Socialist Party at the Summit there are many in which we have largely agreed, many of them were incorporated into some of the initiatives that we have already discussed on the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego or those that we will continue on the following points of this agenda, and we understand that within the scope of the Union there is margin of action. So we're going to vote favourably, even though we'd have some nuances on the issues they incorporated in the self-amendments. In any case, we also call on the State to take more powerful measures, particularly intervention in the field of energy. And then with regard to the Board, the truth that when I saw those nine self-amendments of the People's Parliamentary Group, I watched it with a little surprise and a little hope, thinking that maybe it was the moment when those hidden shock plans we asked for by article 9 from the last four boards of the Group, that they were saying they were going to do something and they didn't, because maybe we were surprised by a written document, with new, ambitious, tangible, immediate, structural and all kinds of proposals. I thought innocently that I came to correct the lack of conviction of the previous presence of the President of the Union in the previous plenary session, or the lack of conviction that we see on the part of other advisers and advisers in the context of this crisis, or within the last six months, in which we put on the table the problem of rising prices, and there was no reaction on the part of the Government of Greece. But I have to say that the hope with which I began to read the long self-amendment has often proved that this is true, that sometimes not because I put more letters, the content is better. And we stayed a bit the way we were. The measures proposed by the Government of Greece basically go in two lines: on the one hand, an appeal for good wishes and then, on the other hand, taking elements that the Board had already announced or had already planned in budgets, such as the Tourist Bonus itself by putting one of the examples that came out here, or, for example, those bonds for energy reinvestment in companies, which were already in the budgets of the Inega. And there are issues about how to facilitate liquidity, etc., which are necessary, were laid down in the roadmap, and they are not negative, but they are insufficient, no, the next one. It is that I am simply a restyle, a remake, a new envelope of measures propaganda that the Board was already doing in ordinary activity and that, therefore, they don't even suppose a roll at this moment of crisis. And let's give examples. A company that today is thinking about closing, of course, the solution is not going to be to make an improvement in its technical equipment to consume a little less electricity first, because it will have to have the money to make that investment and the expectation of not being able to close. Or another example led to a family economy: if there are families in this country that are not being able to fill their refrigerator, they will hardly think about if it's time to change it. Or the Thermal Bond, which was already discussed here. Without getting into the delay, that since December you could have pulled this out. An example, in 2020, this thermal bonus came to 84,000 people. In 2022, two years later, the forecast is to reach 60,000 people. Can anyone in this country think that there are twenty thousand fewer people in this country, in this economic context, after a pandemic, after all this economic recession and the price crisis, who need less this resource? Of course not. And this evidence is that the mechanism is missing, the arbitration mechanism is missing at the state level by the central government, and there is a lack of complementarity that the Galician Union can theoretically make. This, by the way, is the first time you're going to do it, and it's still insufficient because it doesn't look for more people to benefit. And so with a policy of doing what's done. And we are presenting concrete alternatives for issues that are in the hands of the Union, such as temporary and direct aid to the productive sectors, such as increasing the levels of social aid, from Risga to those of macho violence, to complement non-contributory pensions with a hundred euros or other issues that we mention, because they are done immediately. We understand that it would be to use self-government and also to use this country. And ended with a reflection by Bertolt Brecht, who said, "You don't accept the usual as a natural thing. Because in times of disorder, organized confusion, dehumanized humanity, nothing should seem natural. Nothing must seem impossible to change." Of course, what we are living in requires urgent measures, it also requires structural measures, but above all, it requires political will to want to change an economic mode, a social order, which is leaving us every two by three is a moment of constraint in which the Greeks and the Greeks are becoming increasingly poorer in this country and the most battered. We in the Galician Nationalist Block have made it clear that there are alternatives, that things can be done in any other way and that it is time to put this country to use. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u68	Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u69	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Presas for her intervention, for her support, even with the nuances of our not-law proposal. In any case, we appreciate that support. Mr. Puy, it's fine from the political point of view, perhaps not so much from the academic point of view, that attempt to justify the differential of Galician IPC with respect to the rest of the state as a result of the different composition of the basket of calculation of that IPC. But that argument has a problem, and it is that the quantities of products that are introduced into the CPI calculation are constant. So what's different is prices. I think that index works that way. And anyway, you set a bad example, because if you have a four-percent differential in increasing housing prices with respect to the state, that little or nothing has to do with the consumption habits of the Greeks and the Greeks. It is clear that the dwelling will be a good thing that the Greeks will have to use as the Andalusian or the Navarres. And it's true -- I agree with you -- that we already had a problem with the increase in the IPC; it's no less true that this increase has been dramatically exacerbated as a result of the Ukrainian war. And why? You said so too. We have debated very much in this parliament about the price of energy in the state, and now fortunately almost all of us have made a kind of master — I don't know whether or not advanced — in any case about the problem of calculating the price of energy in Spain. And now we know that we have a problem of connectivity with the rest of Europe that led to the fortunate negotiation of the known "Iberian exception." But you also know, Mr Puy, that we all know, that such negotiations are not particularly simple, nor does the European Union automatically offer itself to open up any kind of exceptionality with regard to the common framework, neither in this field nor in others. You present a amendment that converts your proposal from non-initial law to almost a outline because it is a proposal that is not an amended and enlarged law; corrected when there is some error, enlarged when new elements are introduced — you are speaking, of course, from the point of view of any book or any research article. But the real problem with this, Mr. Puy, is that it's a real shame that all this creativity that shows in this proposal not of corrected and enlarged law did not happen to them before when the state government asked the autonomous communities to make contributions, and that you since the Galician Union did not do any. This, of course, is no obstacle for them to criticise in a harsh manner, in a powerful manner any solution that is given to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks and the Spanish ensemble. On the other hand, in the enlarged part of his non-law proposition, what did they include? Well, as Mrs. Presas has just told you correctly, measures that were well announced by the presence of the President of Galician Union at the plenary session two weeks ago, either through the usual press rounds following the Councils of Galician Union, or, in the latter case, some that could be announced yesterday at the very plenary session of the Councillor of the Rural Environment. Because we think it's good to create an observatory to analyze the prices of the agri-food sector, but that occurrence could have happened to you long before the sector itself had asked them for that same measure for months. It's a pity that this long-demanded and necessary measure is included within a non-law proposition related to price increases and the contingency plan to deal with them as a result of the war in Ukraine. Mr. Puy, believe me that with regard to your non-law proposition, and at the very best of the constructive areas, all we can get is to abstain. We abstain because, of course, some of the measures it proposes can be correct, some of the measures it proposes even towards the central government are largely exceeded, and I do not, of course, have time to make a relationship or at least compressed of them all. You know there's a government that's acting decisively, which seems good from a political point of view, and I feel bad from the point of view that criticism at nothing improves the social problem, and there's a government of the Galician Union permanently installed in what we are pioneers, in which there's no one who does it better than us, and if anyone gets close, it's simple and simple because he's copying what we've already done. Therefore, Mr. Puy, count not with our vote against it, but with our abstention. I insist that it's the maximum we can get to see the text you propose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u70	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u71	Thank you very much. I want to thank you for the tone of the debate. And I mean, when the pandemic began, there were a lot of criticisms of many types and, in the end, one of the things that got good at the pandemic is that we discovered science in its advantages, by contributions, solutions and measures that allowed us to overcome the pandemic, but also by its relative failures, like the times that lead to discover how things work, to adapt to the new reality. Even by making some decision that we didn't know was right, because the one about rubbing his hands because he could get infected by the hand when we know he's going through the air, past. With the economy, it's the same thing. I think that's exactly why, when we talk about economic measures in the face of a particular circumstance as it is an exponential sub-inflation, which has already come from behind, but which with the Ukrainian war has accelerated, because we must try, as we did with the pandemic, to abandon ideological prejudices and also tendencies or temptations of partyism; that is, the unbreakable adherence to what is being done by the party that represents. For one thing, what we have to do is not deny reality. The GNP is not corrected, it is extended, it is literally the exact breakdown of the issues that have been raised. And, on the other hand, these are the things the president announced in his presence, the things he proposed at the Conference of Presidents of Palma and the things that are to a large extent already being approved and implemented by the Board. Today, the president said that the energy bonus is already in the DOG, that the electric bonus is already being paid, that the hostery aid plan is already running, because it has had an extraordinary success since it was announced and set in motion is already exhausted. And surely what's true is that Together is working on that plan. We encourage her and encourage her to continue to do so. But it's just that, as the president said, we're getting a lot of things ahead of us, for example, of tax cuts. And it's just that we had a debate a few months ago where you asked us to raise the income tax, where they said they couldn't refract because they favored the rich, and today they come to us with the tax reduction, which besides have no effect on inflation, because they apply to the coming year, and, secondly, they have to refract the income tax rate, which wouldn't have any effect either. But it's also having a lot of administrative agility. There's one thing we've done on two occasions: simplifying administrative procedures for something you're seeing as crucial to the price of energy, which is the start-up of wind farms. We approved in the past legislation a law that gave rise to proceedings, and in this, taking advantage of the park situation, we approved a new administrative simplification. That administrative simplification you simplified as a Galician Predation Law. It turns out that the environmental impact statement is maintained there. Today, in the decree passed by the government, the declaration of environmental impact on the wind farms disappears, and is replaced by a supposed much less rigid environmental report. Well, this is what we advance and respect the declaration of environmental impact. You guys didn't do anything, and now they're going in a hurry and they're charging the environmental impact statement. I think it's better how you're doing the Union, moving forward to problems, acting when you're choking or when you're getting complicated. With regard to the issues that have just been raised, I have to congratulate and thank the Block Spokesman for telling us exactly what his approach to the crisis is. He said that the problem is the neoliberal and capitalist economic system, that we are in a systemic crisis, a new announcement of the fall of capitalism and the social and market economy; that social order needs to be changed. And within that, a very left-wing program, in addition, closed in Galicia, because all of this is pure economic interventionism, but it is that, in addition, they are not of a general nature, but they are for Galicia. Then leave them on the reason why we can't accept your amendment. I mean, you want public intervention in the electricity market and limit prices and contemplate Galicia's exceptionality. Well, we can't support that. However, we are glad to know that you are also asking to reduce the imposition of gas energy. That's what we agree on. So the realistic part of your amendment proposal is already in our text, and changing the world, because I'm sorry. But it's good that Galicia knows that you want to change social order, that you want to nationalize everything, that you want to intervene in all markets. It's good they know. I particularly appreciate that sincerity. And on PSOE's part, I think there's a coincidence in almost everything. There are matters of nuance, such as, for example, you ask to collaborate with the Government of Spain to lower taxes on hydrocarbons, but the imposition on hydrocarbons is state. Junta has already said that she has no problem with that lowering impact on the liquidations within two years. But that would immediately affect the price of hydrocarbons can be done by the central government without any problems. They're asking for other things that I think will be late again. For example, lower rates, rates on ITV. It's just that Junta has already agreed with the concessionary company of the technical inspection of vehicles the reduction of rates for this year's 1.42 discount; not only does it rise to inflation, but it is lowered by the price of last year's inflation rise. If we're at 9.6, the discount is 10% in real terms, not nominal terms. The momentum of priority business initiatives is already regulated. With regard, for example, to the leader of strategic project development, I think they have to see again what is the PERT of renewable energies and the candidacy that Galicia has submitted, and that's what we ask for or what we need — that's not going on in this PNL — is that it's included in Spain's power grid planning for the 26th reinforcement in the transport nodes closest to the renewable generation renewal projects, which is the problem that has energy, and so on. Finally, I thank not only the tone, I thank the Block intensely for telling us what it wants to do with the country: taking advantage of inflation to change social order, which is fine, it's very legitimate; I don't share it, I think most of the Greeks don't either. And I am also grateful for the Socialist Party's abstention because, indeed, many of the measures that you are aiming at and that you have to do with Join, or are already in progress or are very similar to those that you present in your amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u72	Thank you, Mr. Puy. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the fares of the highways AG-55 and AG-57
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u73	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u74	Good morning. Indeed, we are in a situation of maximum emergency with all economic sectors, with all homes — well, all not all — of the people who have less against the ropes, with an obvious risk of asphyxiation, of strangulation in all sectors of the economy. And paradoxically, while some have earned multi-millionaire benefits. Because this is also the crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. And that's why there has to be public intervention in the multi-millionaire benefits, for example, of the electricians or Ibex companies. But you prefer public intervention to be in the working class portfolios, so you see, with the measures they don't take. [[Applause]] And in the face of this extreme situation, governments have to act, and they have to act within the scope of their powers. What happens is that Joina has an identity problem. Until recently, Junta was acting half a day of government and half a day of opposition, and now she's taken away the face and she's acting full-time opposition, because Mr. Feijóo is the head of the opposition in Madrid full-time, she's got the phone connected by chance, she's here visiting to evacuate consultations and she's leaving for Madrid again. So full-time opposition here and in Madrid. And this week they went to Seville to do some kind of group therapy, do some self-help sessions. I see they came motivated and motivated, excited, we listened to them in the interviews on the radio. I don't know if the trainer is Mr. Tellado or Mr. Pazos, but they come here, at last, with the batteries loaded. We're very happy. But, of course, the problem is not that you have to be motivated, the problem is that you have to govern, you have to make decisions, and you don't. Here we bring you a concrete proposal in the field of skills of the Galician Union, in particular the transport and mobility of motorways and motorways of autonomous competence. And in particular two, where there is a permanent situation of aggravation, of discrimination suffered by companies and the proximity of two metropolitan areas, of the most important in the country: that of the Bergantos Coruña, and that of Vigo-Valminor, who suffer discrimination by paying abusive charges, while other districts have autonomous and free buses. So, this situation is causing an aggravating and discrimination on its own, but more now in this context of serious crisis, because it is an obstacle to the competitiveness of companies, of course, and we are talking about an area where there are numerous and very important parks and business polygons. And it's also a trap for the mobility of people who have to move, especially those who have lower wages, every day to go to their jobs, to their studies, to their services; ultimately, to the daily and constant activity they have to do. But what is more, these beaches are causing is also a huge impact on traffic on conventional roads that cross population nuclei, very inhabited areas, densely populated; urban nuclei that have an increase in traffic, therefore, road safety, also noise and pollution. And I'm going to give them a clue: the most noisy road in the whole of Galicia is AC-552, between A Coruña and Carballo, which crosses numerous very important inhabited nuclei, and which it also has on its way to nine schools and also health centers. And the same could be said of the PO-552, between Vigo and Baiona and Oia, which is also a densely inhabited area, where there are numerous business polygons, and which, in addition, as we know, in summer, suffers a real collapse due to the exponential increase in traffic. And a lot of people who can't afford the bus end up using the conventional road with these consequences I just listed. There are 5,10 euros of peas between Coruña and Carballo, and 3,40 euros between Baiona and Vigo, and vice versa. In view of this situation, Junta at the time approved a series of reductions in the rates of subsidies that seem absolutely inadequate to us and which in some cases are measures for the gallery. Because the main measure approved by Junta is a 50% bonus on nighttime, at 12 o'clock at midnight at 6 o'clock in the morning. I don't know how many people use these highways at that time, and I don't think anyone gets up at 4 in the morning to use them on this schedule and can save 50% on the trip back. I don't know if you do, but I don't think it's normal. So it's a measure that's a toast to the sun or, better, a toast to the moon, by the time it applies. In fact, they also established other bonuses, for example, a 25% reduction on the return trip, and also, within the Demographic impulse Act, a bonus for numerous families. I didn't have an opportunity to ask my colleague Dani Pérez to what extent this bonus is increasing the birth rate in the area, but we're very afraid that people don't act for these incentives. Finally, in view of this picture, these measures were already insufficient, they were already discriminatory in the previous context and much more now in this context of serious emergency, of serious crisis. And that's why the BNG brings here today a series of far more ambitious, much more beneficial proposals. The first proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and the Government of the Union, is the temporary abolition of the rates. A temporary suppression that is perfectly justified in this context of emergency and rising prices of unmeasured. This temporary suppression should apply at least to ordinary users, i.e. those who have to travel every day on labour grounds, for reasons of study, services, or for the transport of goods. I've already told you that there are important we logistics and industrial polygons here. And it would be a compensatory measure, a measure of territorial balance and justice that would also have many other derived benefits. Secondly, we propose that, once prices are stabilized, new bonuses — more than currently existing ones — should be applied, because those — as I say to them — are absolutely insufficient and below the case, for example, of AP-9, with the latest approvals. And thirdly, a more silent and profound measure, which we will continue to defend here and everywhere — because we defend here and in the municipalities the same thing, not you, and it is that a serious study is done to address once and for all the rescue of the granting of these motorways and their gratuity so. It is ultimately the people's party's lordships, to end the aggression, the outrage, the discrimination suffered by Vigo, Oia, Baiona, Gondomar, Nigrán; and also the companies of this environment, Coruña, Arteixo, Laracho, Carballo, Coristanco, who are — I would say — mistreated and mistreated by the Union, treated as second-born citizens, because they suffer a double penalty. Because, at the end of the day, they're paying the fees to tap every day when they use this bus or if they need to use this bus, and at the same time, they're also paying their pockets and taxes the fees in the shadow of the free autonomous buses of other regions of the country, and there's no right. [[Applause]] It's 70 million a year the main investment share of the Infrastructure Council, up to about 2,000 million by 2045. Therefore, the BNG brings here viable, necessary proposals, which are also endorsed by plenary agreements of the municipalities of all these areas, of all these territories. And what we ask the People's Party, the Union, is that they act, that they govern, that they vote in favour of the people and the economic activity of those people, that they need a government to stand by their side in the midst of this serious economic and social crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u75	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u76	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well, the truth is it's not the first time we've talked about this camera about the downside and the uprising, it's also the rescue of these concessions, on those self-titled highways, like AG-55 and AG-57. It is known the position with respect to AG-55 and AG-57 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, also of the PSdG, and we always defend that it is time to lift these fees, to rescue these concessions. We're aware that this takes a few procedures, but the fact is that we've been complaining for a long time that the Council of Galicia is already working in this direction. And we believe that most of all now in a moment where we find ourselves, in such a delicate moment, because it's more necessary than ever. As I said, we've manifested it on multiple occasions in this chamber too. And just one year ago, in April 2021, we discussed in this plenary a non-legislative proposal by the PSdG Parliamentary Group in which we urged the Galician Council to liberalize the tariffs in AG-55, between La Coruña and Carballo, and AG-57, Puisseros-Valminor. And we do it because we understand it's a social cry and it's time to end this injustice. It's about a spousal and discrimination to which neighbours and neighbors are subjected, among others, the Costa da Morte and Bergantinos and Val Miñor. And this is the case because the remaining avenues — as was said and said before — of autonomous competition in our autonomous community are free. In the case of AG-55, which must be remembered that it was born as a free and public highway, the reality was that in 1997, taking advantage of the night opening — because at that time there was fear and it was no longer done like that opening of the first stage—of the stage Laracha-Carballo, it was privatized. Neighbors and neighbors were totally deceived by the Galician Union, since their land was expropriated for the construction of a free and public highway and then turned it into a highway with beaches; fees with an excessive cost and with an extended concession up to the year 2045. And it must also be remembered that this vial has, from the very first moment, contained a great social opposition, something that continues to be present in some way because of the economic disaster that it entails for the Comarcas of the Coruña, Bergantinos and the Costa da Morte, as well as for the settlement of the population in the rural areas of these districts. That's why we've been urging the Council of Galicia for almost a year now, within six months, to submit the necessary studies to liberalize these peas in AG-55 and AG-57, between Puxeiros and the Val Minor. The latter opened in 1999 with a Unity of Galicia ruled by the People's Party, which, continuing with that search line, was betting for the construction of motorways of tollage. From there the municipalities of Baiona, Nigrán and Gondomar, very affected by the beaches that the highway has, ask for their disposal, not to spoil the economy of their companies and connect these municipalities with the city of Vigo and with infrastructure and services like the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, the University of Vigo, the Airport of Peinador or the technological park of Valadares. That is why — I repeat — we ask that the Board liberalize these fees, but the PP refused. That's right, you ask the Central Government about the highways that are of state ownership that lifts these beaches, but they don't do it as far as they're concerned. I'm telling you, I don't have any advice for me. So what we ask of the Galician Council is consistent with the demands of the Central Government. And we know, as we said, that it is necessary to make procedures in order to be able to rescue these concessions, but what we are asking for now is that they temporarily apply reductions in the rates of these motorways, particularly very similar to those applied by the central government in AP-9. Those who are applying the central government in AP-9 since June 2021, despite the fact that the Galician Union, by its active and passive nature, had arrived and always put in doubt that these bonuses would come at the rates of AP-9, but the truth is that the citizens and the Greeks and the Greeks are benefiting from these bonuses at the rates of AP-9. That's how it was thanks to a socialist government, thanks to the support of Pedro Sánchez to Galicia and thanks to those budgets, which, as much as it says the BNG on its initiative that these bonuses came up thanks to that investment agreement, the reality is that those agreements came up thanks to those general state budgets, which neither the PP nor the Nationalist Block Galego supported. [[Applause]] Those bonuses in AP-9 fees allow free return on all routes every day of the week and for all vehicles, that additional 50 percent bonus back every day of the week and for all vehicles, that free access from Roundalla, that 20% discount paid on all trips made in a month for those vehicles that carry out more than 20 trips a month. Also, these bonuses for heavy-duty vehicles, with a 20% discount of the fees on all routes, the freeness from the access to Round it or the bonus to 100 percent of the internal routes in the Round-Vigo tranche, including access to the port of Vigo. These are the bonuses that put the central government on the table at AP-9, and, amazingly, in AG-55 and AG-57, the bonuses — that is true — are reduced to 100 percent on the return trip, that is, only for large families, or that 50% bonus at nighttime, which, as Mr Bará said, we don't know who benefits. Therefore, the Galician Union must relieve the tax burden it is suffering right now the population of Galicia due to inflation and the charities of fuels. Look: it is true that we support the amendment tabled by the People's Party to the budgets of the Galician Union this year 2022. The People's Party presented an amendment to increase the reduction of the fees on these motorways by € 650,000; we supported that amendment, but we already said it was short. Because the amendment presented by the PSdEG was a amendment to increase the bonus rates by 5 million. We defend an amendment to allocate 5 million more and increase the benefits of the fees on self-sustainment highways, in line with the central government's efforts for AP-9. But let's not forget that our goal, the objective of the PSdeG Parliamentary Group, and what we always stand for, is to lift these rates. Another thing is we're now temporarily asking for that reduction because it's more immediate, but not forgetting our final goal. The Galician Union, at the moment we're going through, has to make decisions and help relieve the tax burden that the people of Galicia suffer through the rise of the fuels. And from the PSdeG we made proposals for the Galician Board to take them in an immediate manner, but it seems that for the moment President of the Galician Board does not want to listen. And we were saying lower the rates of self-propelled motorways at 75% of the fares for transport professionals and 50 percent for the rest of the users. But the president of the Galician board is not even willing to listen to the PSdEG proposals. We made another one, very concrete, which is that the Galician Union allocates 50% of the collection provided by the state of the hydrocarbon tax to subsidize gas oil to the Greek companies for the transport of passengers and goods. Because it's not true that the Central Government is filling up with these taxes. The reality is to tell people, too, because 58% of that hydrocarbon tax is transferred from the state to the autonomous community. In 2021 Galicia received this concept EUR 454 million. And we propose that Junta target half, 227 million, blessing gas oil to the 9,700 passenger transport companies and commodities in Galicia. In this way, each company would receive an average of 36,000 liters of subsidised gas oil at half a price. These are, among other things, the proposals put forward by this parliamentary group, but they do not want to be heard from the popular bench. But the worst thing is, if you don't want to listen, you're not doing anything to relieve this tax burden. I think it's time to help the Greeks and the Greeks, and, of course, the Galician Union has the means and has the powers to do so. And I'm done saying that we're going to support the non-law proposal presented today by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. They know what our position is: that we are already working from the Galician Union and we are doing the necessary studies and relevant procedures to be able to end this social injustice, which are these abusive sins in AG-55 and AG-57. It's time for the Galician Union to get to work, too. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u78	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is we've just seen a once again finding that there are political parties who were born to be behind the banner. That's where you feel more comfortable, where you're more comfortable, and besides, day after day, you prove that it's your place, because you have to have little political shame and little political respect to present an initiative like this, especially arguing how the spokesman of the Nationalist Block Galego argues. You also know that the skills, because you know it and I'm sure, of the Galician board on the own highways make them the cheapest in the state. You know that the cost per kilometer after applying the discounts are the cheapest in the state. But you don't care. You also know that last year, when this group and this government were already guessing that the IPC was out of sight and had not yet invaded Ukraine, but you can see, this government has passed a royal decree to mitigate the rise of the IPC. We knew that. That's what I'm saying because some people don't seem to know. And that was approved by the German Government. However, this emergency situation that the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block seems to have just been discovered. But if this were to come, Mr. Bará. You say in that emergency situation, you don't have to give the money to Ibex companies, but at the same time you say that you have to rescue the highways. And we hand over the money to whom? Oh, he doesn't care. It doesn't matter, that's the way the Block acts, that is, it gives it everything exactly the same. [[Applause]] The fact is that in this initiative we clearly need to refer to other cases. And it is that once again the Nationalist Block Galego comes to this plenary to defend the Socialist Party, because the value given by the Nationalist Block Galego to the armchairs in the deputies and the armchairs in the municipalities is far superior to the value it has for the Galician Block, and it never dares to tell the Socialist Party anything. You can't tell him that. If there's a highway that is bloody today and there's a real cry, Madam, a highway where there's no downhill, do you know what it is? AP-53, between Santiago and Dozón. And you don't know whose title is? And who doesn't know which highway in Galicia has a higher cost per kilometer? The one who manages the state. Ask your colleagues in Ourense province what the price of this highway is. But here they refer neither to the Socialist Party, nor to much less the Galician Nationalist Block, which is once again submitted to the Socialist Party, to its partners, because they are necessary partners and who appreciate the armchairs much more. The fact is that the facts say that the self-property roads of the Union, both AG-57 and AG-55, are the cheapest. Even, Your Honor, cheaper than AP-9 after applying those tremendous discounts. But you know what? The discounts on these motorways in Galicia have been applied since 2010. So he's not coming to teach us any lessons since the year 2010! And you talked about the carriers, but then we'll get to the carriers. From the transfer of the title of AP-9 they don't speak either, because here we all approve it, but then the Socialist Party in Madrid says no. And what does the Galician Nationalist Block do? Shut up. These subjects are not touched, because we can't bother the partner needed to be in the saddles. What is the price of Galicia, Mr Bará, for you? What's Galician price? You're talking about us taking no powers and saying Mr Bará doesn't make any decisions. It's fake, because since 2010 there have been discounts. But I repeat: last year, in December, an initiative was approved by the government, a decree, so that the rise of the IPC did not fall on the users. But that doesn't matter to you, because you don't come here to that. You come here to join the People's Party and defend the Socialist Party, which are its partners. O Allah! You were saying that there were no alternatives to traffic. He said in the course between Coruña and Carballo there were schools, medical centers... That's not true. I've been reviewing and I've called our voicer in Carballo and we've been reviewing the plot. Of course there are schools behind and in the back streets, but not in that frame. When you want me to invite you, we eat one day in the Coruña, turn to Carballo, and then we can see it again. But where there are no alternatives, it's the highway between Santiago and Dozón. Because there you do: in the stretch from Dozon to Ourense, the alternative to the highway has a traffic of 1,500 vehicles a day, an average intensity of vehicles that is measured. But do you know how intense the previous plot of payment is? Ten thousand vehicles a day. But there in that plot you don't care. A stretch of the N-525 where there is no race to go forward, where the state of the asphalt is quite regrettable and where it does cross many populations. But you don't talk there, because it's not going to make the Socialist Party angry. If our partners get angry, what do we do? What is the price you're willing to pay for the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Bará? We have bonuses for frequency of use, bonuses for third hour and, indeed, for numerous families. But the important thing, Madam Spokesman of the Socialist Group, is not the amount of discount, it is not wrong; the important thing is what users pay, the cost per kilometer of the track. That's what matters to people, not the amount of discounts they can have, nor the different alternatives to discounts. No, no, no, no. How long does it go out for you? You were talking about AP-9 discounts and you were talking about transporters, even the Galician Nationalist Block said so. But how dare they? If in the AP-9 discounts the most ill-treated were the transporters, they said publicly. I know that transport doesn't matter to you, except when you come here to say what you want. But if we just had a strike for days and you didn't lend yourself to sit with them until the country was blocked. Because I didn't want them! [[Applause]] But it's more: I had the opportunity to talk to some of these people, who were very upset because they were autonomous and they didn't give them, because it was cheaper to have the truck stopped than to make a deal, and they weren't organized of any kind. But you know what? We were very grateful that we were there, and they also told us: you were the only ones who came, because those in the Block didn't show up. And you were running away, just like the minister. And now they come here and try to talk about the transport. You should be ashamed if someone hears the debate. He told them before the German Government actually issued a decree by which an extraordinary approach was made to mitigate the impact of the rise on tariffs, so the increases were made to be much lower in the case of the Welsh highways. But that gives you exactly the same. And Mr Bará was talking about removing the fees. Delete the fees, first, what money, Mr. Bará, and second, who must be compensated if the fees are eliminated? You don't mean it. Meanwhile the Board was making free highways, many of them; yes, sir. And we're working on the highway of the Morrazo, on the conversion by road of the Nadela-Sarria Tram, the Átebra, the high-capacity road Tui-A Guard, the Santiago-A Estrada bus, the high-performance route of the Coast of Death. The Socialist Party's spokesman said the Carballo motorway was a disgrace because it opened in the afternoon. Look: ask your colleagues from Costa da Morte or those who are closest to the Costa da Morte. What is a shame, Madam, is to go and put the first stone on the road to the Coast of Death four times and then have to terminate the contract, which was what the Government of Turin and Quintana did. Four times they laid a first stone with four ceremonies, four carp, four guests each time, and eventually they terminated the contract. [[Applause]] That's a shame for a politician. But, finally, you still know what you can do, which is to mess up. Do you know what the real problem is, you don't dare bring this camera either, Mr. Bará? The law of sustainable mobility. This Law on Sustainable Mobility considers that mobility is no longer a fundamental right to be a privilege; it introduces the possibility that fees will be charged for entering your vehicle into cities, and, in addition, allows or legally enables the introduction of fares on highways. What do we say there? Nothing. That's where the Block says nothing. If this is done by the People's Party Government, you already have the banners, and they'd be with them everywhere. But he doesn't say anything. This law has already been passed at the Council of Ministers, but you remain silent. But it is not the only concern because, in addition to all this, it turns out that it intends to consider that future works if they do not understand a criterion of political profitability could not be done. I mean, all the works that have been done in Galicia for the last 20 years could not have been done. Now we understand why state buses are stopped or almost stopped, because what they want is that this law has been finally adopted to stop all infrastructures, because we appeal to that criterion of economic profitability there is nothing done. And what does the Block say in this case? Shut your mouth, because you can't upset your partners. But besides, suppose we're going to leave the countryside. What does the Block say? Well, shut up. In addition, the State in that law says that it discharges the financing of public service obligations in the state transport services, i.e. the train. And what does the Block say in these cases? Shut your mouth, because you can't upset your core partner to keep the seats in the deputies and the municipalities. The truth is, it's pretty worrying. And I, Mr Bará — and I am finished — ask you: what must the Socialist Party do to withdraw its support? What's the price you're willing to pay for the Galician Nationalist Block? How much do you think Galicia is worth? Can the Socialist Party do all this and you're quiet? You think they're defending Galicia? I don't think so, I know they don't care what I believe, but I'm sure there are many Greeks who think like me. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u79	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u80	I see Mr. Calvo has had a good time on April's Fair, he's excited, and I have to congratulate him first of all on his new position as director—what is it?—of electoral campaign or something. You've seen that he's here totally on paper, too, right? We don't differ here. [[Laughter]] Anyway, the problem is that you brought here a bataburrillo of arguments that I think you're even lost in the thread of the speech. Law of sustainable mobility. I think you, as you have your head in Madrid, as you must already be there looking for a flat in Madrid or you already have one there, because you are not aware of what is happening in this parliament and in the Galician politics. But the BNG has already made a meeting here on this theme of the law of sustainable mobility, and I'm going to explain to you why you easily understand what BNG stands for. [[Interruptions.]] BNG defends non-criminalization peonalization, did you take it? [[Murmurs.]] I mean, BNG defends what it's already doing, the Pontevedra model, which is an example in Galicia, the Spanish state and the world. Let's see if they know! [[Applause]] It's the most advanced in mobility policies, where access is not restricted for those who need to go to city centers, for those who need to go, because he lives there or he has to make a shift or a service there. That's the model of BNG, so you can find out. And what I'm worried about is that you don't go through AC-552 anymore, because if I were there, I'd know, as a board report says, that's what's got the highest noise levels in Galicia, which exceeds the 75 decibels, which are more than eleven thousand people affected. Yes, he gave the study of the Galician Union. I read it: "Two hundred and forty teaching and health centers affected in Galicia, nine are in AC-552." He gave a report from Junta de Galicia. You should know what the Galician Board of Infrastructure is publishing, Mr. Calvo, that you don't know. And you come here to talk about tolls on state highways, and I think it's good that you do it, I'm glad you do it. For example, from AP-53. Do you know why there are these abusive fees in AP-53? Because you've been ruling in Madrid for six years and you haven't taken them off. What lessons do you want to teach here? They could have done it. [[Applause]] Why didn't they? We approved here, we supported an LNP to lower those rates. And since he tells me about AP-9, about AP-9, I've told him many times that he was first told about the transfer because he brought the BNG here, because he gave the debate the BNG, because he pushed a PNL, and he unanimously approved three times, and you boycotted him in Madrid, and now he's boycotting the PSOE. And it was first mentioned in the downsides at AP-9 because BNG led this debate to investment in Madrid. So you can't teach us any lessons about this, but on the contrary: rising taxes, increasing concessions to the concessionaire and privatizing the motorway with multi-millionaire benefits for international investment funds. That's the People's Party. [[Applause]] What about you who are now telling the neighborhood of these communities of the Coruña, Bergantiños, Vigo or the Val Minor? It's just that they're wonderful, that Junta tries them to do wonders, that makes them pay their fees while on other autonomics they don't pay their fees. You're making it worse, discriminating and mistreating those neighborhoods. And they want to make themselves look cool, they're treating them well, they've lowered their rates a little bit. No, let's not drink with that speech. You punish, discriminate the neighborhood and the companies of Bergantiños and Val Minor. And we're going to say it here and say it's also necessary with the banners and the mobilizations, to get them to know, because with the banners and the mobilizations, it's advanced the world and it's advancing this country as well. Thanks to that, thanks to the struggle of thousands and thousands of people who have mobilized to defend the rights of humanity's progress. [[Applause]] And I'm done. Mr. Calvo, in order to make it clear, sometimes in politics you have to choose between the bad and the worst, and in this equation you are the worst. You are the worst for Galicia and the worst for the working classes of this country and the whole state. And you turned on the opposition, you know why? Because they had a conviction for corruption, that's why they turned to opposition. They just don't want to hear! They were going to sell their headquarters in Madrid, and now I suppose the new team is going to follow in January 13, and he's happy there. [[Applause]] In addition, to make it clear to them, their alternative is to rule and whiten the ultraright. No, they're already doing it in Castile and León, in Madrid, they're doing it in Andalusia... this is their policy, their schedule; an old schedule, an agenda [mass], an agenda [genophobic]. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[(Expression taken by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]] Yes, yes... [[(Expression taken by the President in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u81	That's slow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u82	...a class agenda. When they deal with those political forces they apply their agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u83	Mr Bará, a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u84	So, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u85	But how did you defend yourself this way, in the end? Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u86	...it doesn't contain with us for that. Make it clear to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u87	Finish, please. Let's take a couple of words, Mr. Bará, with your permission. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I think... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to have... what do you mean by this? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That there's fine capillary. What do you mean? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't understand what you mean by this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I, no, but there are a few words that you will understand that they offend the dignity of a group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sure, yeah. Excuse me! I'm fighting for good or bad in that group, and I'm offended. I also have the right to express myself. I am the President of Parliament, but I am the People's Parliamentary Group, who voted for me. I don't know if he knows. I think you should know that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I feel offended at what you just said here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, yeah, like what? I'm sorry, I'm the president of Parliament because someone voted for me. That's right! Or not? Or are you going to tell me not now? But you're going to tell me you're not? Then let's keep... please! Don't tell me... I have the right to feel offended, and now I feel offended. Or do you want me to say I didn't feel offended? Listen: I am the President of Parliament but I am not a fool. We're going to get to this point. Of course, I was offended, and that's why I ask you to reconsider certain attitudes. I think it's clear. I've already asked you to pull him out... you're insulting, you insult this group by calling it "machist," calling it "genophobic." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, like what? Yes, he did. So, I ask you to remove those expressions because they really ignore the dignity of a group, and I ask you, please remove them. Don't you take them off? [[Protests.]] I'll take them off and call him in order! [[Protests.]] It's the regulation. [[Murmurs.]] It's the regulation! [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry. [[Applause]] That's it! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We'll take this easy, please. I don't know why this was at the end of the day, but, well, you'll understand it has to be. [[Laughter]] Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia regarding the development of a strategic plan on the development of protected housing in Vigo from the 1, 2 and 3 polygons in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u88	To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u89	Good morning. Mr. President, I can't share for anything what you just did because, in addition, it reflects that the People's Party is not only buying the agenda from the far right, but is trying to deny the possibility that we denounce the violence. Because when the president denies vicar violence, he's denying male violence, and they can't silence a bench or silence feminism when he denounces that situation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We're not going to accept it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u90	Silence! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u91	Vicar violence is macho violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u92	Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've already told you to withdraw... those expressions are removed. Those expressions are removed! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in that sense, I am not going to enter this debate now. It's another way of saying it. Sorry, that's another way to say it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! No, no... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u93	This is the problem of the contradictions that start coming out of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u94	That's it! Let's move on. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u95	...when buying certain schedules.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u96	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u97	I'm sorry! I'm sorry! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u98	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Time's up. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado! Mrs. Prado, be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] A little calm. A little calm, please! [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Not between you in the debate, which is not... silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Fernández, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u99	Well, entering the subject — because I also think it is important — because we are witnessing these days — I don't know if it was probably one of the last days — the desertion unlike the President of the Board, since we are at the end of the Feijóo stage, we also believe that it is not wrong to recapitulate what their achievements in terms of housing were. Among the most prominent of Mr. Feijóo — the "moderate Feijóo" — was to dismantle the protected housing. Before the entry into Mr. Feijóo's government, 2,000, 3,000 and even 4,000 houses were being protected each year. Feijóo arrived, put his hand brake on the protected housing and went on to such low figures as 5 shelters protected in 2015, 4 in 2016, 5 in 2017 and 2 in 2018. I mean, we've gone from telling them thousands to counting them with the fingers of a hand. And if we count the entire protected housing in the last decade, we see that only 2,200 protected homes have been started across the country. [[Applause]] In a decade the Government of the People's Party made less housing than was done in the Bipartite in a single year. That's the level of dismantling the protected housing of the People's Party. But it's just that, in addition, it has drastically reduced the number of new protected dwellings, but it has normalized a model, the thatcherist model of the protected housing; a model that powers the privatized protected housing and makes an attack on the public property of the dwelling. And, as you imagine, that Thatcher model is not a new model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u100	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u101	...the Thatcher model is forty years old and it is to stop building housing that belongs to the public property and go gradually dismantled to the one already there. A little history doesn't go wrong. In the United Kingdom, before thatcherism, the public housing represented one third of the total housing, and upon arrival the Government Thatcher marked as an objective ending the public housing as the worst of the welfare state. What he did was he went to sell the public housing park, and for that he used a very sysline formula — because there are ways and ways to get rid of the public housing park, but this lady liked to do things in her own way. He invented the model of the rental scheme with right to purchase, which he did not directly confront with the previous model, but he was progressively allowing to sell to the public park and to erode that high percentage of public housing he had. And as a result, what happened was a dismantling, an increase in prices on the free market and an increase in prices in general. Do you know who leads this rental policy in the Spanish State with the right to buy with a lot of difference? Yes, the Government of Galician Unity of the moderated Feijóo; thus imitates the model Thatcher. And according to data from the Ministry of Development, in this country 60% of public housing is under this rental scheme with the right to purchase. [[Applause]] I mean, more than half of Galician public housing park is being sold. This is the general picture that leaves us President Feijóo: free-hand to all kinds of protected housing and thatcherist model of attack on the public housing park. It abandons a president, whom we will not miss at all, and less on housing, where it only leaves shameful results and figures because the People's Party does not believe that housing has to be a right and does not believe that housing has to be one of the fundamental pillars of the welfare state. And in this black context it is announced that at last for all the Union intends to start the last phase of the Navy PAU; a project that the Union has been paralyzing for years, taking dust in a drawer; by the way, in the same box where it has taken dust, for years, the Institute of Navia, for the benefit of the private center that there is. Now that the elections are coming, they seem to remember getting them out of the drawer. [[Applause]] We'll see how long it'll be real. In any case, the last phase of Navia's PAU is not any project; we're talking about Galicia's greatest urban development in decades, because it's going to assume the urbanization of 1,600 projected housing. Now, with the low rate of housing development that drags together, the first question we have is, how long will it take Galician Union to develop those 1,600 dwellings? Because they're announced today but we want to know if they're going to be in 2, 4, 5 or 10 years. What is the forecast of the Galician Union? And the second question is, what model is it going to make that shelter protected? Because our fear is that the Union will now hypothesize the future of these dwellings. The key question of the model is, how many of these protected dwellings are going to be public housing? Because that's the only regime that guarantees a public housing model ad futurum. And by the volume of soil that's going to develop, we're faced with a historic opportunity like we haven't seen in decades to increase the percentage of public housing in Vigo, which will also increase accessibility directly but also indirectly intervene on the price of free housing. That's why Vigo's city has the right to know that he's planning to make Galician Union. For now, all we know is that there is darkness and ambiguity. It is incomprehensible that the Galician Union has so far not submitted any plans of what will be the protected housing model of the 1,600 protected dwellings to be made. There is no objective on the table, neither is there an open and transparent negotiation, but what we see is a way of negotiating opaque with certain promoters in which it is defined in an intransparent way what the future of that housing will be. Information is not available to this Parliament. 1,600 protected dwellings have been announced, but it is not specified whether they will be public, private or in what regime. Finally, that the Galician Union is simply reducing this to an announcement that there will be 1,600 protected dwellings, without determining the model. But in part that face that you want to keep from indefinition and ambiguity has already fallen, because you had to come here to answer the director of the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo to a question from this group. And then the director of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo answered that he only assured that the 1,600 homes that are to be projected only 80 would be in public regime. It's only 80 out of 1,600! And for that he didn't even guarantee how many of them would be in rent and how many would end up selling. That is, the fork that handles the Galician board of public housing results is between 0 and 80 permanent dwellings, of 1,600 dwellings to be projected. They know year by year. The city had and still has a historic opportunity to change the housing situation, but everything points out that the People's Party is going to bury it and mortgage it, handing virtually all the ground over to private promoters. We demand that you change the roadmap, that you change it now. And to begin with, the logic, the responsible and the honest one with the vicars and the vicars is that the board elaborates and presents a strategic plan of which is going to be the development of polygon 1, 2, 3 in Navia, of the 1,600 housing to be made. And in our opinion, that plan, in addition, has to contemplate some key aspects. The first is that a percentage of public housing is defined that is consistent with the demand that exists. In Vigo, lords of the People's Party, 75% of the people who are in the Housing Applicants' Register are asking for public housing. It is not acceptable for the Union to reserve only 5% of the total housing for public promotion, when 75% of the population calls for public promotion. There has to be a coherence between needs and the joint proposal. Secondly, we need to establish a minimum of rent housing in each promotion, which we place at least 60%, because there is a problem of accessibility in the free housing rental market which is very important to solve. And apart from that, the renter is the only way that that housing remains public. We can't go on with that model of sale of protected housing. And thirdly, a part of this public housing must be reserved to respond to situations of housing emergency, such as evictions or as cases of macho violence, and to launch, by the way, once and for all, the Housing first program. Finally, having a margin on the part of the administrations to respond to the most complicated situations, because at this moment the situation is so dramatic that when a person is defeated in the city of Vigo the board of Galicia, they propose to go to live in Caniza or the Village of Cruces, which is where they have some public housing. That can't be accepted by a person who's in a vulnerable situation. It would be to transfer your family, or lose your job... it's unacceptable. There must be a public housing park in a city like Vigo for housing emergencies. Fourthly, to define a strategy of diversity and typological flexibility to weave a neighborhood with more social mix and quality spaces that allow social interaction. And finally, we propose to study and define criteria for energy efficiency, sustainability and gender perspective in design both at building level and at urban level. Finally, what we propose, Your Honor, is that a plan should be made that will highlight this opportunity for Navia to be a modeled neighborhood for the promotion of public housing, for the coverage and attention to multiple housing needs; a neighborhood in which to innovate sustainable, socially diverse solutions and with a feminist look. And this, which seems to be almost like a Utopian in the context of the housing policy that joins, is what is usually done in the rest of Europe. That is the debate: if we are willing to incorporate the positive elements of European urban culture into the public policies of the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u103	...or if you're going to continue anchored to a model that is limited to responding exclusively to the needs of a small group of private promoters. And I'm done now, President. We have come up with a concrete proposal that looks at the future and meets the needs of our times. And the Galician Union has all the competences and the ability to decide what the plan will be. And I say this especially to the spokesperson for the People's Party, because he's probably going to be tempted to make us a reminder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u105	...of all the problems and inconveniences that the county has. This is an exclusive board competition, and what they're interested in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u107	...to the beams and the beams — I'm done — it's to know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u109	...which is the position and will of the Galician Union in this respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. [[Applause]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning, almost late already, all of you. Today, that in this parliamentary debate we talk a lot about data, statistics, comparisons, we need to remember and put as a starting point a basic rule, a premise, which is that, when we talk about data, to be a little precise, we have to quote the sources. So when the Socialist Parliamentary Group talks about data, for example, that there are 60,000 people less occupied as an inheritance and balance of Mr. Feijó's Government these 13 years, we talk about data from the National Institute of Statistics; when we talk about the emancipation of youth at the lowest levels in the last decade, we talk about the National Institute of Statistics; when we talk about housing, we talk about different official indicators, such as the Ministry Observatory or the fixed picture that we're going to use today, which is the Single Register of Vicenda Applicants. Otherwise, if we don't usually have this good practice of talking about data by quoting the source, it can happen to us as to the President of the Union, who passed in a few minutes today — it may have gone unnoticed — to say, in one of his answers to the questions of opposition groups, which took only 48 hours as President of the People's Party to say, in a few minutes, at the last turn of reply, which took only 72 hours. I mean, precision in numbers is important. And we said that to talk about housing, balance, of the fixed photo we have as our starting point, we're going to the Single Log of Housing Claimants to click; simple, after the debate we had two weeks ago in this plenary and the attendance also to questions from the Popular Group of the Life Advisor. They're data on April 4 - from yesterday afternoon - from the Single Log of Pettylists of Vivenda. In case we're tempted to repeat here today that in Galicia there are no people who ask for a public housing and who have no access to one, I tell you that 16,388 people yesterday afternoon were enrolled in that Single Residents' Register. They're more than 16,000 registered persons, representing family units. Well, as we've explained, if we also compare the evolution of this record in the last decade, what we've seen is the collapse of the disastrous absolute absence -- we could say -- of public housing policies. And speaking of the city of Vigo, look, of those 16,000 people who were registered yesterday afternoon -- a figure that just moved in these years in that record -- half, 8,000, are in Pontevedra province, half that number. Of these 8,000, almost 6,000 are demands from Vigo alone. There are over 5,700 people, neighbors and neighbors of Vigo, who demand an accessible housing, almost 6,000. If we pick up the data from all over the province of Coruña, just over 4,000, we see that Vigo goes over with more -- only the city -- that demand. If we add the demand of all the big cities and add the main localities, the sum of all of them is below the demand, the figure in that city's Vigo log, of more than 5,600 people; a figure that, in addition, does not vary, but what is different are the headlines, the people who are there inscribed, because another of the realities that show that log is that many of the people, tired of not getting a response -- about all the girls, as the spokesperson of the BNG Parliamentary Group, of the proposed group -- what they do is they directly take down and look for life in other places around. Therefore, in the example of Vigo, these figures are the best reflection of this absent, harmful, absolutely non-existent policy of public housing policy of this government in these thirteen years. And in case they fall into temptation -- which I imagine -- in this debate to blame others, as is customary, I want to emphasize the words of their own Vivenda advisor, who at this plenary two weeks ago announced that they would come to the Constitutional Court to denounce the future State Housing Act because he remembered that the competences are within the autonomous community as regards housing. And we said - we also said last week in the Committee on Housing - that we welcome this complaint, that dear friend, that defense of our own housing competences. Remember today when we talk about public housing and skills. Welcome would also be those powers, that complaint, that defense in the execution of the budget; we have fresh to last year. If we have already regretted and said that it was absolutely inexplicable for the low execution of housing access programmes by 2020, we see that last year is over. If we take all the outstanding credits, all the available resources they had in housing access programs, the closure, in December 2021, is just 32% execution. Almost 30% of the funds available in housing access programs have not been executed. We could also talk about this, because they value this complaint about housing competences, about budgets for this year 2022, which is seen as more than 40% is below what was planned in 2009 in housing access programs. We ask in the full past, in this context that is waving the domestic economies, which is being put, in addition, on the table that the main problem that families are living in Galicia - so all the indicators show - is the payment of renters. We call for at least encouragement, in view of the fact that they only present large programs, strategic plans, which, as our spokesman said in the question to the President of the Board this morning, does not translate into the CEO that at least this year they speed up information and calls within the framework of the State Housing Plan, which they are not doing either. So, don't continue to cover up this disgruntling or make efforts to talk about occupation - he spoke before being needed in the sources - in charge of reports that deny reality and official source data such as the General Council of the Judiciary to say that the big problem was the occupation, or to bring initiatives now to the commission or to this full saying that we are going to join these autonomous communities to the Constitutional Court to denounce the Law of Housing, the future Law of Housing, because it invades the competences of the autonomy itself. We were asked in the People's Group in the last commission if we were to be on the side - as the president of the Union also spoke - of communities like Madrid or Murcia, who will also report; communities governed with the timely support of the ultra-right or communities that will also report—what a surprise!—as Galicia and Castile and León, who have there in the oven, about to go out, that first bi-party government with the ultra-right. Vivenda's advisor said this future law was a perversion. Literally he said he was "perverse" wanting to limit the rental prices. We have to make real balances to be doing big debates, showing concern, beating our chests, asking them to contain themselves, to meet the prices of gas, light, fuel, when they then qualify as perverse to meet the prices of rent, in this context of crisis. Perversity is to have nearly 6,000 applicants for public housing in the city of Vigo mostly demanding, in addition, a rent and saying that there is no such problem of access to housing. What is more perverse than the negationism of reality? Now and after years without moving a role in this last decade, we have on the table that initial approval of the urbanization project of the 1st polygon, the expansion of the Navia neighborhood and the development — welcome — of the first phases. And we have the opportunity to do something as basic as what this initiative calls for — we have already announced our position in favor of — how to comply with the law, which is to make policies in conformity -- that is what the law says -- with which this Single Residents' Register shows. They make big presentations saying that 1,600 housing is going to be built, but when you talk only about the rickets number of 80 public promotion dwellings, of course, you can make your own accounts with those figures that we gave to more than 5,700 people registered in that Housing Register. So we have, as we said, a great opportunity, and we also remember how a few days later in the presence of the counsellor and in commission also the People's Group voted against the necessary Institut de Navia, because, since we're talking about developing the extension of the city's most populous neighborhood, we would have to comply, after a decade of non-compliance, with the creation of that institute. They voted against the commission, but then, days later, Vivenda's advisor and the education advisor approached the Navia neighborhood to announce the Navia Institute. Welcome, too! They were talking about 12 million euros. A few weeks before the president of the board spoke of 8 million euros. We want to remember that in the budget this year there are 50,000 euros not for the Institute of Navia, but it puts it to the new Institute of Vigo. I wish those ads would move on to reality! We want to remember here that the Vigo Council sent in 2020 an agreement showing its commitment to give up the land to push -- in view of non-compliance -- that institute, because the Navia district cannot continue to grow, because it already has the problem of girls and boys being forced to travel more than ten kilometers to have a place in a public institute. So welcome are the announcements, welcome is the extension of this urbanization of the new polygons in Navia, but they comply with the staffing of the committed institute, which they now announce, although it's difficult to look where the budgets come from, because they're changing the figure, but welcome to be. We expect facts and take this opportunity to make this urban development, in line with, as we say, with the demand in the city of Vigo of housing, after ten years of absolute dislocation in the area of public housing -- we give an average of 5 housings per year built at the Feijóo stage in the city of Vigo -- Let's do the math. We have now, as we said, the opportunity to do things a little good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u113	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mrs. Fernández, they insult us, they call us machos, they call us xenophobics, and they ask us to remain impassable. Well, no, we're not gonna stay like that, because that's not true. You've changed your mind, from Podemos to the Galego Nationalist Block, first because the Government of Podemos has mistreated Galicia in the budgets, but perhaps also because number one of your party, you know what it says?"The roof until it bleeds." That's a reality, and it's a machismo. We're not going to allow those insults. [[Applause]] We are neither machinists nor xenophobics in this party. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Otero, you have made reference to what we rule with the extreme right. You rule with the extreme left of the Galego Nationalist Block -- you're seeing it here -- and with Podemos... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u114	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u115	...in many deputations, in many municipalities, and hence they whiten that extreme left. Mrs. Otero, you must know very well too. Well, let's get to the point. Mrs. Fernández started with a history lesson marching to the United Kingdom when they didn't want to leave Padornelo. But well, he goes to the United Kingdom to do his theories. And I think the important story, when we talk about Navia, when we talk about Galicia and when we talk about housing, is here in Galicia. And if we're talking about Navia and the PAU of Navia today, it's because autonomous governments of the People's Party have drawn it forward. That was a solar, and counsellor Alberto Núñez Feijóo on his day bet on Navia, bet on Vigo and bet on the official shelter. And today a government of the Galician Union, ruled by Alberto Núñez Feijóo as president, continues to bet on Navia, continues to bet on the housing of official protection and a clear housing policy, which is, in addition, supported by a majority in this Parliament and most of the Greeks, Mrs Fernández. What does that story matter? Because you make a reformulation of Navia here, but it's only that Navia exists thanks to the autonomous governments of the People's Party. And you can't elude the Town Hall, because if Navia has to grow up, it's a two-man administration thing. It's not like you blame each other. Let's see what they do and what they do, and then we can decide. Look, you will know that the Galician Union issued a bid for EUR 11,453 million last March from the urbanization works of the first of the three polygons in which the expansion of the residential neighbourhood is divided. Actions cannot be judged until project approval is final. And for now, we're talking about initial approvals of polygon 1 and polygon 2; initial approvals, as I say. They know that the Vigo Town Hall has been counting on the project for a year, so you all know; a project that will equip the city of Vigo, as the two spokesmen who preceded me, of 1,600 new homes in Navia. So I want to tell Abel Caballero and Mrs. Caride to put the batteries in. If they're really interested in betting on housing and why Vigo has a public housing offer, that they also speed up the deadlines. If they don't mind, if it's just a mouthful, then that's what we have to do with the facts. Because Junta is working and, as I say, if we're talking about Navia, it's thanks to the governments of the People's Party. And all that public housing offer in Vigo is thanks to the governments of the People's Party. To locate us, the IGVS delivers to the Town Hall the documentation of that project in April last year and since then the Town Hall has made numerous requirements which are dilating the processing and which in some cases have even assumed changes in criteria or inclusion of items that were not required by the local government earlier. What does that mean? It means that from the Vigo Town Hall they want to mess up, conflict and dilate the proceedings, as with so many things, not only with the housing and not just with Navia. I would like to remind you, and also to tell you, if you don't know, that the Board, to adapt itself to the preference expressed by the Vigo Council -- always the preference expressed by the Vigo Council -- has agreed to change the entire network of polyethylene supply to foundry; all in order to try to unlock the processing of projects. Similarly, the IGVS also adapted to the preferences expressed at a later date by the Town Hall in relation to the road rolling layer, increasing its thickness above what the regulations require, because that was what Mr. Mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero, wanted. But that was tying, concording, and dilating the procedure. And not only that, because it also increased costs. The Galician Union was with the hand stretched out and collaborating, and that's why there's a difference between them. And it's not to blame him; it's really two things; it's two administrations' business; but one goes forward and the other is always putting sticks on the wheels. And besides, I'm telling you one thing, they're talking about the institute, whether it's done, whether it's done, whether it's done... look, if we take a review now of the 13th year of the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, we see you've fulfilled all your commitments with Vigo. He has fulfilled all his commitments to Vigo, everything he announced, and there they are. I repeat it many times because it's true. Wait, wait, wait, 'cause I told you that high school in Navia will be a reality very soon. These changes requested by the local government, as I say, beyond the legally established requirements, forced the editors to make new calculations, to adapt the original three projects and, in addition, to bear an increase in the costs originally planned, which, if we add them to the uphill experienced by building materials, amounts to a total of 2.4 million euros. And this is delay for the beams and increase in the pocket of the beams and of all the Greeks by the demands of Mr. Mayor of Vigo. See if you have or do not have to see the Vigo Town Hall in this Housing Plan and in these projects that have the Galician Union. Look, only in polygon 1 the overcost is more than one million euros, so we ask the Vigo Town Hall to be quick again so he doesn't put stones on the way and doesn't affect the pockets of the Greeks. Mrs Fernández, the new residential area of San Paio de Navia covers an area of 265,000 square meters, with a private and public investment of 250 million euros in order to enable a total of 1,600 new protected dwellings. That's the enunciation of the whole process, of all the work that has been done since Galician Union. For that, or in order to comply with most of the requests, you will have to take into account the municipal procedures, the Local Government Board, even the Urban Power itself, etc., and all the procedures, as I say, that must be agitated. So far, polygon 1 and polygon 2 B are approved, one on 25 March and another on 1 April -- it took a year -- and you make a series of proposals that, in our understanding, have to be resolved with other kinds of measures on technical aspects that pose, for example, spaces of social interaction and typological flexibility of building, which are already contemplated and which are already demonstrated, and so on, sets out a series of points that redifinish --di -- the Navia PAU. But there's already a plan for Navia that answers that PAU and housing. Now it seems to you that it is easy to reform everything that is Navia, but when the Galician Nationalist Block was in the Bipartite it was already started, and I'm going to tell you what they did or what they didn't do because you might not know it. Look, the Galician Nationalist Bloc, which had the skills in housing, didn't even start a single housing of public protection in Navia in the four years he ruled. In the early phases of San Paio de Navia, with more than 3,000 homes in total, the Bipartite didn't start any -- and if not, you prove it, if it's the other way around -- No plot left for future construction. They made a competition for soil adjudications for protected housing where what was most valued were architectural proposals. And today there's also that nuance in this LNP. Most importantly, all the architectural matrices, all the sustainability -- yes, it's true, but you didn't take into account or override access to the homes of the most vulnerable collectives, when they were ruling in the Bipartite, they didn't dominate the housing of a special regime, nor those destined for rent, Mrs. Fernández. So, you, as far as housing is concerned, when they rule, they don't do anything they ask or say. So it's all the opposite. So we here can't approve a GNP that we know is a real mermaid. Yes, very well drafted, very well thought-out, with important projects and technical nuances, but it won't solve the housing problems of the Greeks. Look, another thing you didn't do in the Bipartite was you didn't acquire a single square metre of soil for expansion, and you didn't finish the park and the green areas of urbanization, which had to be finished later by the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. So again, I'm telling you, they did everything the opposite of what they're asking now. See, at present, the Union, in the enlargement 1st, will build 207 dwellings, about 40% of the total available, and about 74% of the dwellings that are built in that polygon will be destined for people of families with lower income. I would like to clarify to you, Mrs Fernández, before the end of time, that you put in writing in the explanatory statement and that today you also said here in the gallery, and it is referring to the response of the Director General of the IGVS last December 15 in Commission 2nd. I'll read you what you said. He said, "An important part of the housing that is built in San Paio de Navia will be of public promotion, built by the Galician Union, and another part will be self-protected housing, built by cooperatives or private promoters. And public promotion housing will be built in the three polygons of enlargement. For now and to earn time again, we are going to bid at the beginning of the year that comes the drafting of the construction projects of the first ones - the first ones! - "80 dwellings in two blocks of 40, in the first extension polygon. These will be the first public promotion dwellings that start in Navia, but then new projects will come as the development of the urbanization and construction of these housings progress." And I had to say, "at parliamentary headquarters." It is clear that what you assured the Director General of the IGVS is false, and therefore that statement does not enter into reality. Mrs. Fernández, you're part of a point that's not real. So the Union will fulfill, the vigues will have a public housing offer and Navia will be a government product of the People's Party. When he was ruling the Bipartite, he looked the other way, he didn't even notice him. And I have to tell you something here, and it's not that I have a crystal ball, but I really tell you that Abel Caballero is going to handle the times of the approvals of the polygons at the Government Board and at the Council of Urbanism as it would suit him electorally, because that's what he's been doing for thirteen years, and it's going very well, but the Unity of Galicia meets the protected housing and the vigues, because the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Galicia did not even make a single housing of public protection in Vigo, not in one single!; all made them the Galician People's Party's Union. [[Murmurs.]] For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u117	We do like to look out of Padarnelo, see some history, see what happens. I understand that you don't like it, but it takes the historical context to understand the disaster and what policies the People's Party is aligning with. You probably don't like that about reviewing the historical issue because if you see the shame and you see what your betrayal and school is. But the point is that it is important to do this review because we do not want to remain the exception within the context of the European Union where there are no housing policies. [[Applause]] That has to be reversed. That's why we have to look outside as well, look at what happens in the rest of the European countries. And most states, during the 20th century and especially during the post-war period, have built an important public housing network that reached up to 20% or 30% of the public housing, which has not been done in the Spanish state. When the phase of neoliberalism arrived and the policies of reversion of this public housing park were implemented, where public housing was sold in countries that had this public housing park, the question is that when you copy these neoliberal policies and apply them here, where there was no longer a floor, a minimum public housing, the result is that the public housing park in Galicia is 0.32%, when the European Union average is 11%. That's why we need to look a little bit at what the situation is. And what we have to do, the challenge we have in this country is to be more like the situation of the European Union, to be more like that public housing policy and not to apply neoliberal recipes on a rather regrettable situation. We are even worse than the situation in the Spanish state, where the percentage of public housing represents 1.1%. In Galicia it is only 0.32%. With these figures we need a deep reflection and a change in public policies. And, in addition, since 2008, with the crisis, many of the countries that have been implementing these neoliberal policies in the European context have changed and are saying that public housing promotion must be restored and that public participation must be taken on the market, and the Galician Union continues to be set up in thatcherist, neoliberal policies, with a very serious situation, and that cannot be done, we must change the course of policies. [[Applause]] There are organizations that are dedicated precisely to analysing the situation of public policies in the European context, such as the Housing Europe organization, which has analysed what is the result of having a public housing park. And what he says, what he tells us, is that it not only affects directly, at the best of accessibility, people who have that housing, but it intervenes at the price of free housing, and those countries that have the most public housing have a higher price constraint. What is the situation in this country? What is the situation of the housing price in this country? In Vigo, an increase of up to 40 % in six years. If we had a public housing park, it would have a positive effect not only on the direct accessibility of people who can access that housing but on the whole price situation of the free market. It is therefore essential that there be a public housing reserve. And what the director of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo did when he came in was to say that there would be only 80 housing units of 1,600. We asked him in writing to tell us how many dwellings there were, there would be. He didn't want to give us the data, and that's the question. Why does the People's Party want to hide the data? If you're convinced that they're going to make more public promotion, if you're convinced that they're going to respond to the need for public promotion, they'll give the data, but hide, and when the director of the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo says that he only guarantees that there'll be 80 of 1,600. That's the problem. What we're telling you is that if you vote they're sure they're going to make public promotion, they're going to put in a plan, and tell us what percentage it is. That's what we asked for in our proposal. [[Murmurs.]] What we ask of you in our proposal is that you make a plan and specify what the percentage of public housing is going to be. Do it. Why not? The point is, you don't want to develop public housing and you're playing to dilat the deadlines. [[Murmurs.]] You don't mean exactly what you're going to do. [[Applause]] And the question is so serious that, in Vigo, there are 5,600 people registered in the Register of Housing Demands. Of the 5,600 people, 4,200 call for public promotion. Why? Because there's more housing, because it's directed to people who have a more vulnerable situation... 4,200! And Junta says it only guarantees that, of these 1,600, there will be 80. That means that the 4,200 people are going to opt for 80 public promotion dwellings in front of less than a thousand who are asking for private promotion that they will have more. If you... - Madam Counselor, I'm glad you get here, because this debate I think it hits - That's good! Make a plan. [[Applause]] If you have nothing to hide, make a plan and say what will be the percentage of public housing to be reserved for. Our proposal is that if 75% of the people in Vigo ask for public promotion because it's the most accessible housing and because towards the future it's an investment towards the next generations, that you at least respect that 75% of public promotion in the 1,600 housing to come. Are you ready? Are you willing to guarantee that the percentage of public housing will be in relation to the actual demand in the Register of Housing Claimants? Well, there's a certain problem, there's a problem with the Town Hall. [[Applause]] They're powers of the Union. [[The Environment, Territory and Housing Adviser, Vázquez Mejuto, speaks words which are not perceived.]] The competence of the Union is exclusive, deciding what will be done in relation to housing. And what we're telling you is, take your skills, make a strategic plan and respond to people's needs. People mostly ask for public housing, and that's a strategy for the future, which is what the European context is doing, and we want to look more and more like this European context and not the Spanish exception, where the only thing that dominates are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u119	...the private interests of certain promoters. We want to look at that context. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u121	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u122	No, stop it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u123	Actually, the city of Vigo plays the historic opportunity to have a public park of homes, and the crisis is also at stake...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u125	...of accessibility, very serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u127	...which is in the rental market. All of this can be solved by a plan that foresees public promotion in Navia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u129	Do your homework, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u130	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u131	We proceed to the votes of the non-legislative motions. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs María Leticia Gallego Sanromán. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Leticia Gallego Sanromán and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the development of a plan of aid to small trade in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u132	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Encarnación Amigo Díaz. A transaction with the Socialist Parliamentary Group is pending. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u133	Point 2 would be left like this: "Offer to the population, through the periodic publication of data, information on the availability of professionals from all categories involved in primary care, broken down by health areas or districts, and commit to the highest possible recruitment of professionals necessary and available to optimize the functioning of primary care centres within the framework of the laws of the Greek and State budgets."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u134	We vote for the transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Encarnación Amigo Díaz and fourteen other Members, on the extension by the Galician Union of the protocol of integral management of team demand (XIDE) to all primary care centers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u135	Although they were debated together, we now vote, firstly, on the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and 13 other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis resulting from the conflict in Ukraine. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u136	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. Galician people, on the demand of the Galician Union to the Government of the State for certain urgent measures to minimize the socio-economic consequences of the invasion of Ukraine into companies and citizens, and on the implementation by the Galician Union of measures within its competence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u137	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the charges of the AG-55 and AG-57 highways. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u138	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Alexandra Fernández Gómez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of da Alexandra Fernández Gómez and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union regarding the development of a strategic plan on the development of the protected housing of the 1, 2 and 3 polygons of Navia in Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u139	The votes are over here. And we continue with the agenda item 5, interpellations. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Francisco Rivera and da Patricia Otero Rodríguez, on the policy of the Galician Union to mitigate the incidence, in homes with less economic resources, of housing costs as a result of the war of Ukraine
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u140	Mr. Knight has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u141	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I appreciate the turn and I want to transfer the congratulations and successes in your new responsibilities to the advisor who comes here to answer the question, in his area of the People's Party and the whole People's Party, in the task of getting a moderate right, a right of state, a right that is able to add to bring forward a country that has many challenges and many responsibilities. And because in the democratic game there are spaces for different areas, from a different area on the right and a different area on the left, we want the People's Party to be able to do that reconstruction and to overcome that crisis for the sake of the country. And I also want to start this speech because although the presidency pointed out that this was an initiative of this speaker who talks, this really was an initiative that was led by a deputy, Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera; a public servant, a man with commitment, with discretion, who believed and believed in the country, in Galicia and in Ourense. And I want to have my first words today to recognize your task, your work, your dedication to this parliamentary chamber and all your responsibilities throughout your public trajectory. Dear Juan, our gratitude and, of course, our friendship. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The truth is that we live throughout these times in very complex situations, and this is an interpellation that mixes aspects of different kinds, because it has a lot of economic policy, it has a lot of energy policy, it has a lot of housing policy, but it has especially social policy, people's policy, citizenship policy, policy that is more necessary than ever when we have a crisis of this intensity. Because we're living moments of a lot of complexity, because for many years and decades we've been used to living with very low inflation rates, and some people have come to think that inflation was missing from our macroeconomic framework and from our reality. There is nothing more to read in the economic history of countries and realities, and to know how productive structures and cycles work, to understand that inflation is a problem that persists with different levels of incidence and that zero or one inflation does not mean that it ceases to exist. That is why, at this time, when there is a supply crisis that affects costs, that affects energy, that affects supplies, that has enormous implications for sectors affected with great importance, and also when it affects the whole of citizenship, it is more necessary than ever that public officials and governments have the ability to make the best economic policies to save the economy and save people. It is necessary to understand that we are facing a supply crisis where we have to apply different economic policies that we apply in the Great recession or to those we apply in the pandemic, in the great confinement of recent years, because generating an inflationist spiral is the worst effect that any policy can have in order to solve the economy and save people. We want a social shield to protect the whole of citizenship. That social shield is to be built among all administrations, and in particular from the Government of Galicia, which has competence in economic, housing and social matters. We have to build a housing shield as a fundamental element of a social shield that protects citizenship in the face of the times ahead. That's why action must be taken, and all that is adopted is probably insufficient. But it is true that we are seeing how politics are changing. Over the last few days, we've all seen when we're going to refuel the fuel as there's a bonus that reduces to twenty centimeters each liter we fill. Because thousands of families know that today you can't raise your rent above 2% if you have to re-enact and update that count. Because there are hundreds of thousands of workers and workers who know they can't fire them right now if their companies have public help or temporary employment regulation files. Because there are thousands of citizens — 40,000 in Galicia — who know that they are up 15% of the minimum vital income; because there are 600,000 citizens in Spain who receive that social bonus, also through autonomy. And because there are a number of measures that the Government of the State is applying to try to respond to the problems. And we need everyone to put their own responsibilities to the best of their own. And it's important that housing policy, which is what brings me here today, that is, to defend housing policy and support policy for families who are seeing how their levels of expenditure in order to cope with gas and electricity can overflow the possibilities of subsistence. And in housing policy, there's a lot to be done. It is true that in recent years it has changed for the welfare policy of the state, and that the Council of Galicia also receives much more funds to make better housing policy and also to be able to provide more assistance to families. Between 2018 and 2021 only Galicia arrived in no more than 88 million euros, which allowed for the rehabilitation of four thousand eight hundred homes and the construction of one hundred apartments for social rent. If you get data from the housing plan by 2022-2025, there's 82 million euros for public housing in Galicia. And a young rental bonus, which implies that they will arrive in Galicia from the State Government 11.4 million euros every year to give the younger people a chance. From the Government of the State they reach Galicia EUR 350 million for this community in this period to be able to rehabilitate twenty thousand homes until 2026, to make a thousand more housing for social rent. So we have a priority in housing that needs to be accompanied by many measures for the whole country and to get ahead of the challenges we have. Because the fact is that the data we have on social policy are worrying. It's disturbing what's going on. And we see it today with the Conjunctural Survey of Homes that just published the Galego Institute of Statistics, where a third of the Welsh families were forced to cut into common expenses this first quarter of the year: in clothing, in footwear, in gas and electricity. That percentage doubled to six months ago, and we're at the levels in Galicia in 2013. There's a forty-nine of citizenship that says it can reach the end of the month normally. But there's another half that can't get here, and there's a percentage of those that have a capital difficulty. And that's where we have to pay more attention. Homes that tighten their belt and cut expenses are doubled in one year. Four out of ten families take steps to lower the bill of gas, light and also to buy more basic products at the supermarket. And deep down we started doing it all out of responsibility and also out of prudence. But we know that there are difficult times and that if there are 400,60,000 homes -- twice as many as a year ago -- that they have to take action, we need to understand that they are families that use less heating, that have to save light, that lower their basic consumption, that stop mobilizing the car in order to move. Hard houses that are forced to take action. There are fifty-two thousand families in Galicia, fifty-two thousand homes, who in order to reach the end of the month ask their families for help. And there are 17 thousand homes that negotiate or renegotiate credits or mortgages. The report on the state of poverty in Galicia shows worrying data: 253,000 Galicians have severe material deficiencies and there is a worsening in the difficulties of having a decent housing. It is time for the Galician Union to take measures with total intensity. That we know there's a percentage that's been delayed in basic housing payments, which has increased by thirty percent this percentage in recent times, and that, besides, they can't keep a housing in adequate temperature conditions almost one in ten homes in Galicia, 9.6%. This situation forces the Government of the Union and all those responsible to focus on the needs of housing and the dignity of life in a housing conditioned 21st century. That's why today in this first intervention I want to call on the board to explain all the measures it's taking, so it'll bring us to this camera the set and the package of measures it's going to develop to help families that have the most needs and the set of Greek citizenship. That's a challenge we have, and that's a challenge to answer. Because if we're worried about things, we're concerned about what the board housing policy was and we're concerned about how we are if we can do more. But with all the help of responsibility, I want to ask the Government of the Council of Galicia that, beyond the dedication you have throughout these days and the possible succession in which you are forced to work, it's time to work for the people of the country. So at a time of greater complexity, the greatest responsibility; at a time when thousands of citizens have problems paying their bills, we put money in people's hands to help them. There are new policies in the state that allow the Galician Union to receive more funds than in other preterit moments, and it is therefore now the moment that the Union has to collaborate. I will, of course, express my hope, the hope that the Government of Galicia will put into the housing policies what must be done, that they should put funds into social policies, that they should work for no one to stay behind. I already know that a decade of People's Party governments have been a disaster on housing policies, nobody can deny it, nor do I want to enter that boring debate that all the statistics give it, all the data on how they left public housing. What I have to tell them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u143	...is that when there are so many difficulties they put themselves best to do these public policies. Thank you very much, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u144	Thank you, Mr. Knight. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, as Mr. Caballero said, this initiative — and so on — was Mr. Rivera, to which I personally wish you the best. I thank you and the PSOE for bringing to this chamber some of the main concerns that the Greeks and the Greeks have at the moment, most recently. Besides, let the PSOE join in a question where the board has been working for weeks and taking action. By taking measures regardless of whether they are not entirely within their competence, but by doing so in the absence of those measures that had to come from the Central Government. Because, Your Honor, the problems we are suffering from the whole of citizens are not new and, of course, they don't have their origin in the war conflict; they don't have their origin in the invasion Russia is making about Ukraine. It's something we've been dragging for months. For you, the socialists, it seems that this is the perfect excuse for making the different justifications of the current situation. However, reality is different in Spain. And just as Spain Galicia has been living for months the consequences of an irresponsible energy policy that citizens come to notice in their pockets. We ask from the beginning of the People's Party, from the beginning we ask from Galicia for a fair and orderly transition, and we find ourselves with an unfair and totally disordered transition. And that caused a substantial increase in the price of light, also caused a substantial increase in the price of fuels and, of course, as a result in the basket of purchase. And in this situation, the central government lacks a strategy. It's a strategy to guarantee families, pemmes, self-governing, small trade, restoration, the whole business and industrial fabric of a stable electric price. So avoid continuing to hit historic peaks and uphills in Spain that seem to have no limit. However, and in the absence of the Central Government's initiative, the Union is acting in an agile manner within the framework of autonomous competences and has already approved a package of twelve measures to alleviate these consequences of rising prices and bringing liquidity to businesses; liquidity in companies is now essential. That's why I'm sure the only thing we want from Galicia is for the central government to act, because working with the central government and working with the autonomous communities will make the situation of the Greeks and the rest of the Spaniards a little easier. And we're also still waiting for commitments to be made. These commitments of the Conference of Presidents of Palma, that realization of a greater fiscal effort, totally insufficient to date, to contain that problem, the inflation we have seen in recent months. And so it keeps getting worse every day that the purchasing power of our families passes. That's why we insist and continue to insist on this reduction of VAT, which is fundamental to the electric price, and concrete measures; concrete to make tax reductions. It's not enough for us to be the gas stations that have to be banked, those that have to go ahead with those 20 cents that will eventually have to impact on the rest of the city. And the lack of realisation in energy initiatives, especially as it is pending, is to present to the European Union this proposal for approval to reduce the electric price, thus contributing to its stabilization, which is completely disordering everything. As a counterpoint to this inaction of the Central Government, we work and push and, therefore, we draw twelve measures forward. Among them are the axillization and launch of the thermal social bond. A measure that has already arrived this month, that will reach sixty-six thousand Galician families, humble families, the most vulnerable families at the moment. In addition, this aid will be complemented by a further 100 euros, which may be used for other payments, to cover receipts as light may be. Galicia's total investment is 19.7 million euros. In addition, Junta has an energy saving plan for the Greek homes, which is endowed with 25 million euros and with which we intend to alleviate the impact that the rise in energy and fuel prices is having on the Greek families, on the family economy. And all of this is in addition to measures enabled by the Union to fight energy poverty. We have already regulated by law the impossibility of cutting electricity to vulnerable consumers at risk of social exclusion. And we did this because of a law -- law passed in 2017. And in his aberration we call each other an annual bonus, it's the Greek electric bond, since the year 2018. The aid this year 2022 has been open since January 13th and has an initial budget of 1.9 million euros. In fact, since 2014 Galicia has been pioneering as an autonomous community with the launch of the electric ticket, which later copied the rest of the autonomous communities. From 2014 to 2021, the overall aid count amounts to €6.3 million, with more than twenty-seven thousand benefited families. And as far as housing is concerned, you know, Mr. Caballero, and he also knows very well, that many of the social programs depend on the State Housing Plan. State housing plan which covers from 2022 to 2025 and which you paralyze. The State Housing Plan has existed since the 1980s. It gives the impression that suddenly the PSOE seems to have discovered it right now. State housing plans are co-financed by autonomous communities; in the case of Galicia, co-financing is thirty percent. We have the budget, we have all the reports prepared, but we are waiting for the power to remove them, and there are many of the actions that we must carry out. We're in April, it should be in progress since January, but that wasn't possible. And it wasn't possible, because if you were given to them for being torn apart, and they wanted to change the previous housing plan. And they wanted to change because it had been approved by the People's Party. And we're the only ones we wanted was a simplification. And you know what we're meeting? Well, that's a terrible deal. That's the worst management that's been approved, and it's been done that we're not able to take the funding lines out of autonomous communities. And besides, I'll tell you that yesterday even the CEO called the Autonomous Communities to say that there would be changes once again; changes that would take at least ten more days. I mean, we'll be in May and we won't be able to manage these plans yet because of the ineffectiveness that PSOE has in Madrid. But it's ineffective that, in addition, is shared by the BNG, because they support you in Madrid. They're both guilty that we're not running the State Housing Plan right now. If this ends and I am therefore able to pass this royal decree to amend what has just been passed for a few months, the Galician Union will allocate about EUR 20 million to direct aid for the rent. These tips are as follows: Some EUR 12.7 million to call for the rental aid for the population as a whole. It's 12.7 million euros this year, 11.2 million euros next year. About €2.1 million for the social lease bonus. We published the call in December 2021. We did it for an amount of EUR 400,000, to get ahead of us, because we saw that the situation was going to be slow in time, and these families can't be waiting for that stunt that PSOE has right now in Madrid in government along with its partners. This is going to be extra 1.6 million euros. About 11.4 million euros for the good young renter. In fact, it's stated that this is the integrity of the central government. But we continue in the same situation: we ask all autonomous communities for a platform, all of them, because it is inexhaustible, and we continue on the same line, we continue on the same; we continue without a platform. Thursdays are waiting for that announcement that you made the candy and plate, which also filled headlines one after the other, which will reach only 2.4% of the young Greeks. But the situation is that we're waiting, we've got to handle it ourselves, we can't take it off. And you know who's guilty? It is the PSOE, the PSOE supported by other groups, as can be the BNG in Madrid. And the funds for the lease bond for victims of gender-based violence, pending, also pending from the central government, and which is provided with funding because you know that they are within the state pact that is about to end their vigil. But in addition to all this, in fact, there are other measures, measures that we have been putting in time. As it is said here that if five, six, eight dwellings, three thousand and five hundred public promotion dwellings in the last ten years; renting housing, with an accessible rent, ranging from 50 euros to 200 euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u147	And along with that, we help the municipalities. And because of that, the municipalities were also able to rehabilitate housing and that these homes are in rent arrangements at very affordable prices; one hundred seventy-six additional dwellings in our rural Galician. And in view of this, what do we have, Mr. Knight? Jobs and more locks. That's the situation we have at home right now. And the month of December will come and they will tell the Council of Galicia why he didn't execute. You know why you don't run? Because we're in April, when in January they had to come out of the bases, and today we're still not able to. And we can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u149	...because here comes a Secretary of State saying that it's all done, even today in Santiago. And the result is that they still have to pass another royal decree again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u150	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the housing policy of the People's Party has been a disaster over the past decade. You want to avoid reality, but the numbers are conversable. Because you can contrast with one source or another, but when all sources indicate objective data that cannot be questioned, reality ends up eliminating any kind of idyllic version that you want to propose. Twenty percent of the homes in Galicia, about, are today leases, and the renters went up to Galicia about twenty-five percent since 2016, before the current crisis we are experiencing. There are fifteen thousand and eight hundred families who, with different levels of concern and problems, cannot cope with the basic charges of paying income and paying the most basic issues of supply. And when I read a press release from your office that says you're the great success you have is that you give access to a housing worthy of seventy-six families of vulnerable collectives, one falls to the ground. [[Applause]] When you're seeing what's going on in this country, when over a decade of the People's Party in Galicia we see what are the protected housing building numbers in Galicia like in 2005, in 2006, in 2007, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, which were the derivatives of it, all those years were in four thousand, three thousand, two thousand houses of official protection, protected housing, what is the data from Mr. Feijóo's arrival? So in 2018 you built two protected dwellings, this is the graph. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows the House a graph.]] If you want to take the historical trend, it might not look right, but I'm putting it back very easily, the housing protected with the People's Party down, no kind of management. [[Mr. Knight Miguez shows the Chamber another graphic.]] If they talk about rent policy, more than the same; simply escapism and no concretion. And you have funds, because only in the year 2021 here in Galicia did you receive 98 million euros from the Government of Spain for housing policies. And you come here to say that the great solution is to give 100 euros of supplement. Six million euros that are the accounts that give and everyone can do. While the Government of Spain commits EUR 350 million to housing policies in Galicia, the Government of the Union at the time of the greatest crisis announces six million euros of dedication to impose a 100-euro increase. And they say everything is perfect, that the Government of the Union is not going to do anything else and that the housing policy of the PP is like the economic policy of Feijóo, which is neither expected nor expected, Counsellor. [[Applause]] When you say there's an excuse that is the war of Ukraine, you're forgetting that thousands of Greeks and Greeks are listening to it through this Parliament know all the difficulties they've had before this war of Ukraine. But it's obvious that the war in Ukraine is shooting down the difficulties far beyond it. And of course there are problems with energy policy. Of course, Mr. Rajoy knows very well, who has stopped all the energy transition in this country to have clean energies, and who has forced the country to do what he didn't do on the right, who has left the energy policy in a chaos. And we have to tell you when you repeat those blankets. We have to tell you clearly: the bridge thermal power plant closes because a private company has decided to close it, because it could keep it running for more years. And that company from which he was such a friend Mr. Feijóo, who hugged him every time he saw him, made a policy change for corporate social responsibility. Mr. Feijóo didn't know what was going on, and now he's trying to throw balloons all the time instead of assuming the power policy failure of the People's Party. [[Applause]] You didn't do it or you don't want to do it. And what we're telling them is that just as throughout the pandemic the Government of Spain has applied social policies to make a shield of protection, now it's also developing a historical package for a new situation for rising costs and prices. And the People's Party governments have no guidance or direction. The only thing that worries the People's Party is to repeat the mantra that taxes must be dropped continuously. A mantra that doesn't affect what you do. Because the Galician Union can make social policies, it can make housing policies, environmental policies, even if they do them wrong, thanks to the funds that the state collects through tax, because when you say that tax is lower, it's because it's the Government of Spain that sends the funds so that there are housing policies and there's 10 million euros for the social bonus, it's young in housing every year. With you and no taxes, there wouldn't be a single young Greek man who could be emancipated with a rental aid from public administrations. Take out the face of cynicism, forget about that repetitive policy of lowering taxes. [[Applause]] Because when you talk about lowering taxes, the IVE doesn't see what's being done in the country with what you criticized. And I'm puzzled that the advisor here would embrace the energy powers, come embrace the gas stations, instead of recognizing what two million seven hundred thousand Greeks know, that today when we put the fuel we pay twenty cents less per litre, and thanks to the fact that there's a government in the state that has taxes and raise funds to pay things. And you come down here to get us to put down the fuels. What reality do they live in? [[Applause]] You don't like it, Counselor, that the State Government has reduced the liter of fuel by 20 cents?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u153	The People's Party believes that there is no need to take those measures that allow us to maintain the tax system and apply what we collect at costs. We must leave this cynicism of the People's Party because today Mr. Feijóo saw here saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u154	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u155	...that the worst economic policy I knew was that of the Government of Spain; a Government of Spain that cut down a pandemic and managed to create jobs again, with a protective shield. And Mr. Feijóo leaves this country with sixty thousand less busy workers, while there are one million more people in Spain as a busy population.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u157	That's the cynicism of the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo who doesn't lead us anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u159	Make policies and there will be a motion to put on your tasks and commitments, which I hope you will be able to support to improve what this board is not doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u160	Then they're protesting me because there's not much time to eat. He's looking at a wig. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Knight, I see you've gotten a little upset. Look: angry families have to be, all the Greek families; angry people have to be autonomous, they're suffocating them, they can no longer; bulldozers also have to be the gas stations, they have to delay those twenty cents. Those are all the ones who have to be upset. You had to be a little quieter. [[Applause]] Twenty-six million euros that you are willing to take out the Government of Greece through the State Housing Plan that you have paralysed. How should I repeat it? It's 26 million euros they had to be getting to the boys and families to help them pay the rent. And they were unable to remove the plan in January. You, alone and exclusively you. Mr. Knight, how do you find yourself talking about energy policy? He closes The Bridges. Yes, after he doesn't, he's a friend of Feijóo's. The minute of glory is fine, but at least it's consistent with what you're saying. It's that we made the report to close The Bridges, and this same board at four months' time made the report to re-occupy The Bridges. And you know why? Because we hadn't solved the energy problem. But now, all of a sudden, you, who say you want to be transparent, take care of the environment in Galicia, along with the BNG, have done that again we have another royal decree. Royal decree distinguishing Galicia from sensitive, moderate, low areas. But do you know that you intend to make the minister of Ecological Transition, and I don't know if you agree, the BNG, because you're saying absolutely nothing? You don't even want sectoral reports, and you don't even want public information from the wind. But why don't they tell people? That's what they have to tell you, that's the energy policy that you bring to this House. When they can't, darkness, there's no public information, there's no sectoral reports, because we have to speed up the wind. [[Applause]] It doesn't matter what happens in Galicia; first, we close, then we don't close. As a result, an economic disaster, and it's the economic disaster of all families, those families that could have a sweet moment and they don't have it because of you. That's the reality, it's not the other one. And on the other hand, I will tell you, Mr. Knight, that once again your data is totally incorrect. I focused on two, but I could focus on more. The percentage of homes in the rental scheme is 14.2% in Galicia, not 20%. Who's gonna do your papers again and again? The following: The average family rental expenditure is EUR 344. It's too high. Indeed, but it is not from the EUR 442.9 that you say on this initiative. 72% of households were for rent less than 30% of income, so they don't exceed the limits considered to be maximum, which is what you're saying here. This is reality and it's not another. But what I'm going to ask you to do is move you today, which is the Secretary of State, who is in addition to your party secretary, who today has the mayor's hat, does not have you as president of the Socialist Party's parliament or secretary, who lets us work for the autonomous communities, that we can move forward the State Housing Plan, that the State Housing Plan just like the European funds belong to us. You know Galicia is the fifth community that gets the most funds, but you know why? Because it's the fifth most populous community and therefore it's depending on the population. But are they giving us something? And the only thing we were missing, that we paid taxes and finally that Galicia had received less. No, they're not doing us any favors, they're giving the Greeks what belongs to them, Mr. Knight. That's the reality. [[Laughter]] And he laughs at me because there were so many inconsistencies that it's impossible, in the end, it's impossible to almost rebut it. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] That said, we'll keep working, but we'll keep working wisely and not riding chaos. You see, in relation to the fall of these rents, 2% for three months, in the end, chaos with the charge of rents after the entry into force of the 2% limit. It's a totally opportunistic measure, that of the Central Government; apart from being an opportunistic measure, it's a completely linear measure, it's an illogical measure, because you don't focus on the owner of the house, you don't analyze whether it's great tenor or not a great tenor, and you don't do it to the person who has to pay that rent. So it's unusual. And once again, do you know what he does to housing at the national level? It makes empty houses not go out into the market and therefore people are reluctant. As with the Housing Law, that Housing Law which also supported the BNG and which is incredible,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u163	...first, by unconstitutional and, second, by interventionist. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u164	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the policy of the Galician Union regarding the transfer of minimum vital income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u165	Mrs. Rodil has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u166	Counselor, I don't know if it's so funny for you to spend four months without paying the extensions of the lease bonus to macho violence, which we've been asking this afternoon from BNG on this matter. [[Applause]] I say it because there are threats of defiance to the neighbors of Santiago; it makes him laugh as well. [[Applause]] And if you're all right now in what's left of time, you can go up to speed the proceedings, which had to be processed two months ago, since December 10, 2021. [[Applause]] Let's see if there's anyone laughing at him out there. [[Applause]] Housing is a fundamental right and it is collected in the sacred Constitution of 1978, which, we say on one occasion, besides beating her breast, we must read it a little more. [[Applause]] We are going to the question, which also has much to do with the situation of people who are in greater vulnerability, many of them also with very precarious housing situations, and which has to do with the rights of people who are benefiting from economic benefits, essentially the risk and the minimum vital income. And we are going to focus this interpellation, Counsellor — and I welcome you and greet you on good days; we have a frenzy rhythm here in this Parliament — on two related issues — I say — with that population, the most vulnerable we have in our country, which was already in a situation of enormous precariousness and vulnerability before the pandemic of the coward and which is kept in addition to this precarious situation or even worsened in the last few months of this crisis and this brutal price escalation that we have been talking about for several weeks in this Parliament and outside it. And we will focus on two issues: one, the situation of incompatibility between the two benefits, the risk and the minimum vital income, which is kept here in Galicia — and it is from the few territories of the Spanish State in which this incompatibility is maintained between the self-sustainment and the state; among other things, or mainly, because you are still not reforming Galician Social Inclusion Act. I've lost count of the times we've asked them since the BNG, here in this House, to push this reform of Galician Social Inclusion Act to end this situation -- and that it has brought as a most remarkable prejudice to some of these people, you would benefit from the risk to which they were subsequently granted the minimum vital income, important economic claims of which we will then speak. And another part, which for us is fundamental and goes in parallel to that reform of Galicia's Social Inclusion Act, which is the claim of the transfer to Galicia of the management of the minimum vital income, and that you are doing absolutely nothing to achieve it. So, let's go in parts -- that first one that has to do with incompatibility. It's very sad — I must say, we've said it on more occasions — or I'd dare say it's almost disgusting that the Galician Union, far from being part of the solution to the problems of the most vulnerable people in our country, ends up being part of the problem and even prejudices them more. Almost a year ago, we brought from the BNG to Parliament the consequences of this incompatibility of risk with the minimum vital income. People who have been claimed by Junta since her council office for thousands of euros for taking the risk until the minimum vital income was approved, and those who have subsequently been admitted to that state benefit retroactively. We then betrayed — will remember — some cases to humanize, to customize, because they are not numbers, they are people of flesh and bone, like marriages of returned migrants, over 60 years of age who received something more than 500 euros of the risk and those who claimed them 5,341 euros; or cases of women over 50 years of age with a low level of training, who resided in an infra-vival — thus considered by the social services they care for — that they received little more than four hundred twenty-three euros a month of risk and that they had to return 4,115 euros because they were asked for administration. They are people to whom the Union, and the Council, specifically, of Social Policy, treated as fraud, as if they were hiding information or trying to defraud the public administration and with it all Welsh and Welsh. But nothing further from reality, but they were people who were harmed by the problems that two administrations generated between them, the two governments in this case: the United States and the Government of Spain. One of these people is a neighbour of Vigo — he has omitted the name for reasons of confidentiality — who has recently won a firm judgment, no longer the option of appeal, declaring the nullity of that claim that the Board made to him and which amounted to more than five thousand euros. It's a judgment they have to have because the Council was the defendant's part. But I think that I should put the face of shame on any government for three things that say justice in that sentence: one, that the Board has omitted the hearing process during the complaint process to the person concerned; and, more importantly, the judge says, "this we're going to put aside," but he says that he didn't even have to listen to this person. Secondly, they treated it as if they were fraudsters of the administration that they put at all times and with the greatest agility in knowing her any change in her economic situation as soon as this happened, as required by the Vigilant Legislation. And thirdly, having the Galician Union's obligation to process compensation, what he was asked to do was to return everything he had legally paid for eleven months, in which he had all the right and legitimacy of the world — as is confirmed by justice — to a risk of just over four hundred euros. I insist that you're a person who had as my only income these four hundred euros. This isn't new, we brought it here a year ago. So they told us that they were going to reform Galician Social Inclusion Act in the second quarter of 2021. And to me or a lot, I miss my memory or it's April 5, 2022, and nothing has yet been done to end this situation of incompatibility, which remains — I insist — practically only exclusively here in Galicia. [[Applause]] That's part of it. The other is the transfer to Galicia of the minimum vital income. This is something that the Block has been claiming, and supposedly the Board has also been defending since the creation of the minimum vital income. We repeated it, and it was also agreed in this House on several occasions over the past year. They did nothing to actually and effectively claim that transfer to Galicia of the minimum vital income. In fact, with time passed, first, you can think one: well, it's just... because I hide it, then the crisis. But two years after the minimum vital income has been approved in the State and two years of its application and implementation have passed, I think that really what they don't have is the slightest wish that Galicia would transfer this benefit; they really live very comfortable in that situation because they can use this arianite against the Government of Spain but without moving one finger to get the situation resolved. And the most worrisome and most disturbing thing about anyone in this country is that in the midst of this confrontation -- absolutely sterile because nothing is earned -- who is the most vulnerable people in this country. If there was a real willingness not only to achieve the transfer of the management of the minimum vital income, but rather to end situations, such as the one I just reported a moment ago, of incompatibility between the two benefits, the Board would have modified by the quick way and expressed Galicia's Social Inclusion Act; for example, using the accompanying laws of 2021 and 2022 budgets. They didn't. They could in almost two years have brought to this House an amendment to the Act of Inclusion through the ordinary way; neither did they. Or they could actually claim that transfer of competition so that they can make at least temporarily a shared management -- a single window, to understand us -- as they already had in other times, for example, Euskadi or Navarra, which have recently reached their agreements and signature in single joint transfer commissions, that transition from the management of the minimum vital income to these two autonomous communities. But, of course, for that we have to do something more than complain, for that we have to do something more than complain from time to time — which I don't think much — or from time to time say — how it happens to other areas of government — that they are very angry, through a letter or an e-mail. [[Applause]] That's why I think there's a popular proverb in this country that says "who wants fish has to wet his ass." Well, Galician Union has to do something, too. What do we propose? And today the question that we are asking with this question is one: when will the Joint Commission of Transfers to Galicia be convened to, among many others who are pending — because it has been thirteen years without moving a finger to get a single new competitive transfer to our country — the transfer of Galicia from the management of the minimum vital income? On one issue — and with this ending the first turn of action — which is fundamental: firstly, because we are talking about the population, it is not a road, which is important any public infrastructure. But we're talking about the most vulnerable population in our country, about people who have an economic precaution such that at much they charge four hundred and fifty hundred and fifty hundred and fifty euros a month. Now let's imagine all that we're here, to which we were told today morning that inflation was a lottery; imagine charging 450 euros a month and having to pay a rent of 275 — that to see what housing you go in with 275 euros a month — the bill of light, the bill of water, the bill of gas, the butter candy, take the kids to school and have to eat at least three times a day. That's not a lottery -- we say the other day -- neither a shore up like that of January; that's, really, a vertical wall with which many people decide to stop eating them so they can feed their children. [[Applause]] So the question is clear: when will this Transfer Commission be convened to transfer Galicia the management of the minimum vital income? And when, once and for all, will this House be brought to deal with the reform of the Galician Social Inclusion Act so that both benefits are no longer incompatible? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Social Policy Advisor, Mrs. Fabiola García Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rodil, very good days. At a time like the present, with high inflation, difficulties in supply and also with a very important rise in energy prices, the most vulnerable homes need all of our help but also our full understanding. The economic situation we've been dragging, aggravated by the war in Ukraine, leaves with little margin of response to hundreds and hundreds of homes to which we must care and take care of as much as possible. To know in which office their problems are managed, to know which administration is responsible for the payment of the aid they receive should be the last concern of all these people; these people need less bureaucracy and more flexibility, and that we give them answers to their situation. The creation of the minimum living income in June 2020 has brought good news to all those who are at risk of social exclusion in Spain and Galicia. The governments of all the autonomous communities celebrated this great step taken by the Central Government, but at that time we warned of several beings that were in their design. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be recalled that we have warned of the need to regulate its implementation in order to facilitate its coexistence with the rest of the aid that was in force in the various autonomous communities. We have warned — and you will remember — that duplication or even incompatibilities could occur that complicate citizens' access. You will remember that we have warned of the importance of agitating your process to respond more effectively to people who have gone through a bad economic time. And time, Mrs. Rodil, gave us reason. At this time we saw as a benefit that was announced as the revolution of social inclusion in Spain was not such. The delays in more than a year in their processing and the uncertainties surrounding the minimum vital income are causing people at risk of social exclusion to prefer to keep at risk. Today, the risk keeps the 65% of the users who were in the month of July 2020 when the minimum living income was set in motion. But what explanation could you have that after two years of its implementation there are still so many and so many people who do not want to move to the minimum vital income and who decide to continue to receive the autonomous benefit? Well, Mrs. Rodil, they decide to stay in the autonomous allowance because their access is more agile and easier. They decide to continue in the autonomic benefit because in many cases the content to be perceived is even greater and allows access to an entry path to housing or employment, which is something very important, and which must be the objective of any benefit. Or it may also be that many of the ancient perceivers do not trust the government or trust their transfer to the minimum vital income. Mrs. Rodil, you were here and at that moment you lived, exactly like me, all those claims and also all those warnings that we made to the Central Government. He knows perfectly well that Galicia was the first community to request that transfer from the management of the minimum vital income, because we understand that we have experience, but also the infrastructure needed to manage this income effectively. I appreciate your support and that of your parliamentary group in the initiatives proposed in this House to urge the Central Government to transfer to us the management of the minimum vital income. The decisive step in this direction was at the meeting that President Feijóo held with Minister Escrivá, the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, and precisely that meeting was here in Santiago. In this meeting we succeeded in the commitment of the Central Government to transfer Galicia the management of the minimum vital income. And at this time we had a first meeting with the Ministry technicians to move forward in this direction. As you will understand, this is an unprecedented situation, since Galicia will be the first autonomous community, out of the system in particular, which will achieve this transfer. And, of course, we're going to continue working to open the way, we're going to continue to work so that both the Ministry's technicians and the Social Policy Council can solve all the doubts and also all the pitfalls that this situation may suggest that this congestion will have the greatest legal certainty. I see you agree with the Council of Galicia and also with me in mistrust towards the central government — a government that, by the way, your party supports — and it is normal, Mrs. Rodil, that you too have this mistrust, because the Basque Country has been waiting for that transition for two years, which has caused the absolute despair of the Basque Nationalist Party. And that's true, as we all know, that they are government preference partners; but we already see the usefulness of this position. Navarra came to pass in the autonomics a motion urging the Government to speed up that transfer. We have recently known that this community will not take over until next month of October, and we are now, as you well say, in April. I, as I suppose to you, really worry about this delay in time, and that this delay can directly affect the Greek homes. But, of course, what's in our hand, what's in the hand of the German Government, we're going to do. The Greek Government — as you said — works in the elaboration of the Social Inclusion Act, which always generates security for the perceivers and also reorders the benefit map we have at present; a new regulation that will allow the adaptation of the risk to the minimum vital income and will also facilitate the socio-laboral insertion of its perceivers. We want to continue to reduce bureaucracy and that there is a single window to which every citizen can come who is having a bad economic time, and who is going through a situation of real vulnerability. This regulation will also allow the benefit map to be re-ordered so that they do not overlap, so that there are no two benefits that have the same purpose, and that are more modern, more effective and more agile. We hope to have this regulation listed at the end of this year. But in the meantime, we don't stay with our arms crossed, because the German Government is responding to the current situation by means of a package of measures that go directly to the Greek homes so that they come, precisely, at the end of the month. One of the measures taken in this package is the launch of the thermal social bond, which we added an additional 100 euros to help families pay for energy bills, which is so high. Just as during the pandemic of the coward-19, we respond agilely, in a near and effective manner, and I assure you that we will continue to be there for all the families who are worst going through it, so they can always go forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u169	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For Mrs. Rodil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u170	Thank you, President. We will omit the time that has passed between 2020 and 2022, specifically since January 2022. We are only going to have this meeting in January 2022, Mr Scrivá and the — for now, for a few more weeks — president of the Galician Union, of which you were talking about, in which we are supposed to be the first, outside of the outer communities, to have that transfer — understanding that of the assignment of management, then we speak more specifically of that. But being alone on that date, that is, three months and a meeting? Really, really? And where do they meet? That's my question. Is it alone, the offices of your board with technical representatives of the Ministry of Social Security and Migration, or is it within the framework, for example, of bilateral committees where, among other matters, the problems that cause the incompatibility that still exists, since 2020 which has created the minimum vital income, between minimum income and risk? Because of course, you said, "We warned you they were incompatible." Indeed, it is incompatible because the law of Galicia declares it incompatible. And that change—we have to say it from the Block—is to be approved here! [[Applause]] It depends neither on Congress nor on the Government of Pedro Sánchez, nor on the European Union, nor on anyone. You have to bring yourself here. So, by the end of 2022... of course, I asked you this question a year ago, Counselor, and -- you can review your press release because you decided to have a headline there -- you told me that in the second quarter of 2021 they started. And now what I'm told is that I don't worry, that at the end of 2022 we bring this reform of Galicia's Social Inclusion Act. So, really, a little more rigour, seriousness and a little more respect, not for the Bloc, for me or for this Parliament, but for the people, who really live and survive, because they boast with an income of social inclusion of Galicia that has an average of 436 euros, according to the data in their reports; the last published corresponding to the year 2020. [[Applause]] So, really, I don't know if there's to shake them up a little bit, but they take things seriously and with a little agility too, because here we take everything that goes from lawmaking -- and we're squeezing the equator -- that every time it's a different deadline. So, what do you want me to say? I'm out of here and I don't believe anything. I tell him, and I dare almost put my hand on the fire, that by the end of 2022 it will not be far from being processed and in operation, in force, that reform of Galicia's Social Inclusion Act. It's just that I dare, because they've come here again and again to announce successive dates that never arrive; you can always wait, and honestly, no, people can't wait. [[Applause]] Because in the midst of this dilation of times and of not having the slightest haste within the Union, with a paralysed government already before the whole internal mess began in the bosom of the People's Party, people are drowned. Drowned, — I insist — because you charge as an average in a risk of EUR 436; now stand in the middle of this escalation, which we are paying two euros the liter of gas oil. What are those people doing? One of the lowest self-inclusion incomes in the whole state, such as breast-feeding. Of what, to have people in misery, to share misery? Is that what we boast about and what we suck? I ask you from the Block specifically, the first — because I referred in my intervention to that firm judicial judgment, without the possibility of recourse to what the procedure was and what the consequences of the Social Policy Council's proceeding with the claims to people for alleged incompatibility, treated as fraudsters — is that they make an official review of the whole procedure, with all the persons to whom this claim was made and there was no bonus of any kind because they had no children in charge. [[Applause]] Act your own motu to try to correct a procedure of administration that was to charge against a population that only what you did was what you were told to do. Secondly, they bring the reform of the Act of Inclusion, but not at the end of 2022, really, before the current session is over, so that as late as the end of the year it is published in the Official Journal of Galicia and in force. And thirdly, he was talking about the thermal social bond or some of the other measures, which are absolutely patched in front of this price escalation. You have the ability to update the content of the risk. You can do it at least to try to increase at least those 436 euros that charge on average — I insist — the perceived and perceived risks in the face of this economic set of brutal price escalation, which is impoverishing the society as a whole and especially the most vulnerable. We, for example, made this demand at the Congress of Deputies and Members, and the Spanish Government announced that it would increase the minimum vital income by 15%. A lot, isn't it? That's debatable, but at least they announced something. That won't solve the problems, but at least it will allow people to live a little calmer by the end of the month and not pulling every time a new bill enters through the door. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the closure of the inquiry, the Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, I am truly glad that you share with me the concern of all those Greek homes that are waiting for a solution that really relieves your domestic economies. But in the face of the lack of action by the Central Government, as always — and we are used to it — the Council of Galicia is making it available to all families, families that have less resources, all the help that is within our reach to address this situation. As I have already pointed out in my first intervention, the Government of Greece has just adopted a plan of shock with twelve measures which are designed precisely to mitigate the impact of the economy on citizens but also on productive tissue; measures aimed at facilitating liquidity to the most affected sectors, aimed at supporting the productive fabric, and also at helping all families to which they arrive at the end of the month, with the launch of the thermal social bonus and, of course, also with that autonomic supplement of 100 euros per family. But we do not mark future dates in the timetable for action, but we are immediately implementing realistic measures and tangible measures, which are aimed directly at the pockets of the Greeks. We would like nothing more — I believe you — than to have that minimum living income already available, because we believe that we would be able to reach more people, but above all to reach more people in a more efficient way and be able to help people who need immediate help. We are, of course, doing everything in our hand to make that transfer a reality as soon as possible. Galicia's proposal is that the minimum vital income is managed in the same way that non-contributory pensions are managed and managed successfully for many decades. We believe — and thus we argue to the Central Government — that the model of cohesion that already exists works and that there is no need to invent new formulas, but only to use a system that works right now between the Central Government and our community. So it's about taking advantage of accumulated knowledge after so long, in collaboration with non-contributory pensions and speeding up that transfer as much as possible. Mrs. Rodil, you say you've lost your mind. I've also lost count of the times you come to this gallery shouting and also telling many Greeks lies. Because the Cunta de Galicia meets the deadlines, of course we meet those deadlines! We started processing in the third trimester of last year and we are currently working on the hands of social entities. And if you don't believe me, ask all the social entities in Galicia whether or not we're working hand in hand with them, which are the ones who know the needs of many Greek families. That's why we want to make a new law of social inclusion in Galicia that works and that is useful for the families of our community. [[Applause]] You also say, Mrs. Rodil: what more you have to do than complain and do other communities! The answer is very clear: being government partners, being Pedro Sánchez's partners. But we're not going to be partners of Pedro Sánchez; we're going to continue working from Galicia to give solutions to all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Madam President, the best way for us to address the real needs of all those families in Galicia, and also the needs of all those people who are worse off, is that we have already been there at their side at the worst of times of a cowardly 19 pandemic. Because during the pandemic of the Covid-19 we were an example of agility, and we were also an example of effectiveness in caring for people who were going through a bad situation. And we're doing it again now, and we're going to work legally, through that law of social inclusion in Galicia, to give legal security and to give more facilities to the attention of people who find themselves in a situation of vulnerability. We are confident that the central government will also put the batteries in place, that it will manage the minimum vital income more effectively and, of course, also, we now believe that for it to be useful, effective and fast only it can be managed by the Greek Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u173	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u174	Now we have a change in the agenda, which is a question to the government. Question from Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the reformulation of the model of the municipal brigades created under the agreements of participation in the prevention and defence of forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u175	Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u176	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The Rural Environment Council annually provides local economic collaboration to finance the recruitment of brigades for the development of preventive work, but also for monitoring and defence against forest fires. This measure aims to involve local administrations in the fight against fires that the German Government spreads every year. Through the configuration by the municipalities of one or two brigades of five components, which for three months, framed between July and October, remain under the organizational and functional command of the corresponding district. The Brigadiers receive a 16-hour training course, which is a very scarce training for such high responsibility and their own job security. The financing of these agreements is carried out with European funds within the framework of the Galician RDP, but only for prevention work. On the other hand, the monitoring and defence of forest fires is funded by the Galician Union. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has already stated, on several occasions, that it does not share this model of defense against fire; a model that does not adhere to the reality existing in the Greek territory or the virulence of the current fires — fires already of the sixth generation. Galicia needs, Mr. Counsellor, a model adapted to reality, it needs a unique, professional, stable, trained, and equipped device with direct dependence on the consultancy with competences in matter and budgeting for that, its Rural Middle Councillory. [[Applause]] The municipalities are continuing to assume inappropriate competences, adding difficulties added to this complicated situation that they are living in recent times, and now aggravated by an increasing financial burden. Also, in this case, since the budgetary departure they received is the same since 2016, without even taking into account the Council's salary increase produced during these years with the minimum inter-branch salary paid by the Government of President Pedro Sánchez. For pure responsibility, for the mere reproach that the fire in their territory may report to them, the mayors and mayors carry upon their shoulders an order which should not be of their competence. A group of experts supporting the Galician Parliament Commission, in the document delivered in June 2019, has already proposed a reformulation focusing on the need for its reorientation to prevention work. The greatest extent — as you know — the fifth provision of the new Royal Decree on urgent measures for labour reform speaks of the fact that contracts for a fixed duration for European funds could only be for prevention work. In the case we're dealing with, we ask the German Government if you intend to reformulate the model of municipal brigades.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Answer from the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Mrs Rodríguez, in fact, the Law on the Prevention and Defence of Forest Fires in Galicia establishes the collaboration of the Greek Government with local authorities for the prevention and extinction of fires. Of course, our collaboration goes further because — as I always say, ladies — we do prevention all year round and we make prevention one of our strategic lines. All the actions of the General Directorate of the Rural Council are always predicting this anticipation of the problem of fires. We are talking about a cross-sectional work which, as you know, of course exceeds the competences of the Council of the Rural Environment and also involves the administration of the State, and of course also the local administration and the deputies. We prevent through the Law on the Recovery of the Land of Galicia, we prevent the Plan on the implementation of pasture or in the forest area by the Forest Plan 2021-2040. But, by focusing on his explanatory statement, I want to clarify certain issues that are, at least, diffused. Ladies and gentlemen, the collaboration agreements signed with local authorities, with the municipalities in this area, include the following types of action: mobilisation of motorcycle vehicles, preventive treatments in a mechanized manner, and indeed the formation of these municipal brigades, which are responsible for both prevention and monitoring work. And these agreements are of some importance to the municipalities. I have to say that, during 2021, nothing more and nothing less than two hundred and sixty-one local entities were signed for more than EUR 10.5 million, which have European funds, but also have own funds, as could not be otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there should be any discrepancy in the fact that the German comprehensive forest fire fighting system has to be based on a professionalized structure, which has to have an integrated territorial basis under the sole command of the forest administration for the Rural Environment Council. It was the same group of experts — which you mentioned — of support to the Commission of the Galician Parliament on forest fires in July 2019 which said that the main structure of the fire device must consist of personnel of the Rural Environment Council, with adequate training and preparation at all times. That autonomic device — also the expert group — has to complement with new municipal brigades, which will have as their primary objective monitoring and prevention, together with support for the logistics device and collaboration in the settlement of fires, with a six-month period of work. We have already talked about these brigades at the meeting in March 2019 and December 2021, and we are looking forward to the Members, whom we are consulting — I will speak on the next occasion — to determine once that need for cooperation between administrations to be able to finance these types of brigades, which was also collected from the experts' proposals. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that, so far, communication has been fundamentally unilateral. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u179	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u180	Thank you, President. Counselor, you haven't answered the question of whether they're going to reformulate or not. Usually, in January, the municipalities already know how these conventions are formulated and we're in April and nothing knows about this. And I remind you that the skills for extinction are from the Rural Council and you have the budget for it. White and bottled! [[Applause]] I would like to join the recommendation of the experts, who speak of the question of prevention, exclusively — I can read the text but do not give me time — in addition to the fifth provision of the Royal Labour Market Reform Decree, which speaks of the fact that temporary recruitment of European grants can only be carried out for prevention, not for extinction. These agreements are sickened by many shortcomings that you know and that experts were alerting. No brigade bosses! Many municipalities could not agree with you this agreement — it is redundant — and many others who started to function know that they collapsed in the middle of the high-risk era. Neither did he tell you to know if they're going to do something like that. Not to mention the time they hire, which is July, August and September, which is just the high-risk era, and that preventive work has to be done long before. Instead of the model of offering agreements. The municipalities were also questioned by experts because you don't analyze the territorial needs of the areas. They offer all the municipalities and depend on the will of the mayor or mayor to do so. And — straight away — mayors and mayors accept these agreements for responsibility, but all of them, those of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and those of the Galician Nationalist Block, are against this agreement, because they carry on their budget entirely inappropriate skills, with staff — that is not their fault, of course — that is not trained or qualified for that, because every year they can change staff...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u182	...and the extinction of fires is much more serious than this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta. Close the question, the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u184	The fault as always, ladies and gentlemen, is from Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm talking, in particular, about your question, which is the reformulation of the municipal brigades, first of all, I want to put into value those two hundred sixtys and one municipality that annually signs the brigade agreements, among other matters of prevention and extinction, with the Galician board, in an example of administrative cooperation. I also want to highlight the Village Protection Convention, in which we also have two hundred and sixty municipalities and in which this year we check the boundaries of one hundred and fifteen municipalities, with more than sixty thousand hectares, and we made almost seventy thousand notifications. And at that convention we also made the prevention plans of one hundred and sixty-four municipalities. So I think an important job has been done in prevention. But the agreement made by the experts who were put by all parliamentary groups in Parliament in 2019 clearly said that these municipal brigades would have to be reformulated, among other things, professionalized and transferred to a six-month working time, which the Rural Council fully agrees with. And let's do what those experts said, which is that it had to be done clearly with the funding of the Council of Galicia, of course, of the Town Councils, of course, and, without any doubt, of the Members. And what did the Middle Rural Councilman do here? In keeping with the mandate of parliamentary experts, forward letters to Members of the Crown, Lugo and Pontevedra on eight different occasions, e-mails and telephone calls. We still had no meeting on the reformulation of the municipal brigades, except — I must say — with the House of Ourense. Yeah, don't worry what I'm going to tell you about the money you put in the House of Ourense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the same way, we asked them not to reformulate the municipal brigades, ladies and gentlemen, if they could talk about prevention work in all the different municipalities, by collaborating in the financing of the tractors they need to make that prevention the municipalities of Galicia. Since 2017, the Galician Union has financed ninety and one tractors. And in the last two years, the 13 tractors that were funded were exclusively in Ourense, and you know why? Because 50% of these tractors contributed him to the House of Ourense along with the Rural Council. But, in addition, during the year 2021, by responsibility — as Members did not want to make that financial contribution — we made it available to the counties of Galicia thirty-one more tractors to take preventive measures. So let me finish my job by asking you a question: will the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Galicia assume the importance of collaboration between administrations on such a transcendent issue for the Greeks as is the prevention of forest fires? And are you asking, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the Members in whom they govern to fulfil the mandate of the group of parliamentary experts as regards the financing of the new municipal brigades? [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to know what your position is. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u185	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. This is part of the parliamentary rhetoric. Man, please! [[Protests.]] This is parliamentary rhetoric. [[Murmurs.]] How many times do you ask yourself questions in the air? [[Protests.]] No, no, no, no. Now it's time to eat and we'll be back at 4:00. [[Murmurs.]] Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u186	We resumed the session. We continue with questions to the Government. Question by Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the date scheduled by the Galician Board to present a bill of the game
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u187	Whenever you want, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u189	Let's see if they tell us anything. Something's missing there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u190	Whenever you want, when you want, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u191	After this wickedness, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr. Rueda, we all know the one about "Come in, come in, play, play, play, play, bet, bet," which is a well-known announcement from Mr. Carlos Somera that can even provoke laughter, but behind it has a reality that hurts enough. There are broken families in it, families that have been left without means, especially because some of their members have fallen into the play of betting houses. And in this we have to ask ourselves what the Galician Union looks like in all this and what it can do to solve this problem. And it turns out there's a law on the Galician game that is over six MEPs in the Galician Nationalist Block. It's obvious that the way of betting, the media, the places, has changed a lot in the last thirty-seven years, right? So we have to ask ourselves, in the face of this serious problem which causes impoverishment, which causes loss of mental health, which causes the drop in academic performance and, above all, more obviously, what causes addiction: what measures has the Galician Union taken? And so we're about going to 2016, where we start talking about this project, and then we've passed directly to 2019, when they present it. But it seems that I would not solve the problems much because the president of the ESC himself and the former adviser of the People's Party — among other things — said things like: Some fragments of the text seem to affect the naturalization of activity by placing it in value, leaving almost aside the serious problems he has caused. Practically it does not regulate — it says — the online game, to which the majority of the population accesses. And it says other pearls that don't leave this project very good. Then, after all this, it had a rather rapid, purely logical consequence. I looked in a search engine, very quickly, "Galiza's Board", "the Game Law", "Popular Party..." And these were the headlines that were going out: "The giants of the bettings are reforested in Galicia while the Act of the game of Junta remains stagnant," "The Board has stopped entering 3.7 million euros by the reduction of taxes on casinos, bingos and gambling machines in 2021", "The National Audience accuses the Jutta of protecting the economic interests of some gambling companies against others," or "The brothers González Fuentes, owners of Lucca — all we know— appear as donors of 100,000 euros to the PP in the Gürtel plot." And after reading all this, when you see how the People's Party ministers, like Mr. Catalá, end up in Codere, after you see that there are books that tell you about the relations of the People's Party with the game and after you see another kind of bond, you ask yourself the following question: can you, while there are boys and girls who still leave their lives and those of their families in Coderes and Lucca, Junta is delaying all this a bit because maybe they benefit their friends, their family, even their militants? Today you have a good opportunity to make it clear that I do not — I hope so — saying loud and clear when they will bring this preliminary draft here to the Parliament of Galicia to be able to debate about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u192	Reply by Vice-President Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism, Mr Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Mr. Castro. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's see, I share, if your question is sincere, the real intention — and I've seen that I haven't, because I've seen where you're going. I'm really sorry, because if I were honest, we would share our concern about the need to regulate a sector where we actually know about its consequences, the consequences of the game. You in your question and now you've named some — there are others — So it's a sector that needs regulation. It's already a regulated sector, but it's always needed regulation and updating. That's where the bill goes. If that's what he's worried about, we'd probably agree. I can see that you're all due to politics, as you do everything to see if you're pulling out some political receipt with some insinuation, as always. I'm going to talk to you, at least in this first intervention, as if you really cared about the regulation of the game in an objective way. And so the first thing I have to say to you is that you're talking about betting houses, online gambling. Well, I'm sure you know there's a lot more to it than betting houses, I suppose you also worry about slot machines, bingos, casinos, sports betting. All this has to be regulated, too. I suppose you don't know — and that's indeed disturbing when you give it a proper answer — that neither the Galician Union nor any other autonomous community has competences over the online game. That is what Mr Garzón, who in four years made a single decree, in the regulation of the online game, on commercial communications — in which we agreed, by the way. But, man!, if the online game is worrisome — and certainly it is, above all among young people, who are where it is growing — a single regulation against the twelve that made Junta from the year 2009 at the time of regulating the game that I will call "traditional" denotes little concern or little sensitivity, or little knowledge of what is really happening with the online game and the consequences it has on younger people. I already tell you that, if you address your question with a real will of protection and need for regulation — that I do not deny you, the Board does not, of course, deny you in the part of the game that belongs to us, and I insist that I do not know whether you know him well by seeing your written question and what you say now, we cannot regulate the game online. We'd like to. We've asked for a lot of autonomous communities, eh! This has led him to the state before and now, and it has a general scope, these are technological issues. And, therefore, autonomous communities can do little to regulate the online game, which is really what you are creating right now — not exclusively but in a pre-eminent way — addictions. I'm telling you, if you really care about the prevention of addictions and the consequences of ludopathy, this bill -- to give you some ideas -- will reduce distances to educational centers and make it more strict and more generalize virtually access controls in betting houses. They weren't up until now. It will ban advertising in the Greek media. We can't do anything else, we can't get to the ban or the regulation of advertising in the online game. There will be help for ludopathy, additional limitations that can put the municipalities — before they could not — and the ban on lending to players.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u195	I mean, a number of measures that are going to be directed at this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u196	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u197	...if it's really your concern, though I see that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u198	Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u199	Thank you again, President. Home, Mr. Rueda, don't tell me it's regulated when the workers themselves and owners of small businesses in the sector say it's a real jungle! And still above, they give primacy, priman, to those companies that still above, they don't count in Galicia but in Madrid. And you can't talk about it like it's not going with you. You, when you come into the game sector, you're just like at home, you just need to put on your shoes and your pajamas. And I don't say, tell him the members of the People's Party themselves. Because when you ask them in the press -- and you know it perfectly -- what the relationship of the People's Party to the game is, they themselves say -- textual words -- "It's Wheel stuff and their boys." Be careful that, now that you're going to be president, don't make him a "Married." Watch your back pretty well. That's what your militants say. And, as I told you, this is some sort of Mad Max of legislation. So, in the meters away from the betting houses with the centers, I don't think they're in much agreement here in Roundla and Vigo, when they use, for example, Google Maps directly to measure the distance they want with school centers. Or directly, for example, in the Navia neighborhood in Vigo, which also puts it 20 meters from a children's playground. [[Applause]] Well, they'll be nuances, and what happens is, as always, they do with regulations and regulations what they want. After all, I might as well have missed the game law -- which now seems to have an appetite for regulating the online, as if I had taken this since 1985 and couldn't regulate the previous -- that the solution was that, instead of the game law, I might have put something like "removal of the windmills." Because they're getting faster there. Then they can, and in two weeks they're ready. But here, since they start talking, six years have passed, and in the meantime there are ruined families and young people and girls losing money directly to, by chance, their friends. When or what are you going to bring? Set a date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u200	Thank you, Mr. Castro. Close the question by the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Castro, do you know how I feel and what I can now confirm? That you didn't know the Autonomous Community couldn't regulate the game online. Ask me this question, I didn't know, and now, of course, he comes here and goes out through the hills of Obeda and says what they always say. It's good to be documented before doing this kind of thing. Do you know who the online gaming industry is delighted with? With Minister Garzón. That's what I'm told, which they're delighted because, if you can put a lot more locks on them, you're not putting them on. So you talk to him, because I had three sectoral conferences for that decree that took four years to get out, and the online game is quite satisfied. I can assure you that if we could regulate that, we would do other things. But we can't. Therefore, if this matter really concerns you — which I sincerely believe you don't care much less what you intend to appear, or even intended to appear very much in this question — you address your question and your ability to affect, if you have it, to your "government friend" in Madrid, so that you can rule it differently. Because I can assure you that we have this very clear. Look, you know that the Bipartite — from the two parties sitting there — in 2008 made a regulation of recreational machines that said exactly that it was necessary to simplify the procedures in order to put more slot machines, because it was necessary to boost the dynamism of a very important and exciting economic sector in Galicia, in need of support. That's what you said in your Bipartite regulation. Do you know what led to? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The number of slot machines fired. And that the landlords had been obliged not to have the machines they wanted to put on freely was all they got their legislation. So what are you talking about? What are you now accusing the People's Party of? Do you know what the highest representative of gaming operators' associations in Galicia says? That the bill of what you're talking about should change because it strangles the sector. So what are we left with? Are we friends? No, I know they're worried about the end of the strangling sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't care about the recipients, the possible ones who are harmed by the game. But, I mean, if I didn't even know that the online game can't regulate it! If you asked me a question about this and you're insisting on something we can't...! So it's very difficult for me to answer. Look, I can only answer you with data and what this government does. Do you know -- I suppose you will know -- that for three years now it has been limited, capped, the number of betting sites that can be opened in Galicia? You can't open any more, it's forbidden to open more. And if any locks, that license can no longer increase; that is, it's one less. This soon imitated many autonomous communities, but the first was Galicia. So what are you talking about? When you made the Bipartite that decree of slot machines, they shot. We had to take them down. Today there are fewer slot machines, fewer playrooms, less, in general, possibilities for presence play, which is what can regulate Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u202	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u203	Everything else is demagogy and ignorance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u204	Thank you, Mr. Rueda. Thanks, time's up. [[Applause]] Noa Susana Díaz Varela and Patricia Otero Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the interurban road passenger transport service in the municipalities of the region of Barbanza
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u205	You have a word for Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u206	Thank you, President. I wanted to begin by greeting the representatives of the socialist groups of the counties of Barbanza which today accompany us from the gallery of invited persons, deeply concerned by the situation of road transport that suffers from their neighborhood, as they practically show it every day. Counsellor, for about a year now, the new assistant has begun to provide this service, and you know very well that there are numerous complaints from users and users across Galicia about the problems they are giving. This situation occurs more prominently or in a recurrent way in the municipalities of the Barbanza district, a specific area of 70,000 inhabitants and which is the third largest density in the entire province of Coruña; a territory that also counts with a particularity as is a strong mobility of its neighbours and neighbours among the municipalities, which are forced to move daily to go to their jobs in a practically straight line, given the intense network of companies and industries that exist there. Since the beginning of the provision of this service, there have been many occasions when the various counties of Barbados have moved him to his office to advise him of the need for the necessary measures to be taken for the proper functioning of this service after many shortcomings have been detected. But it seems that the German Government is not performing its mandatory oversight and control tasks of this transport contract, because virtually nothing has changed. But not only since the start of this new contract. You know very well that the counties of Barbanza had, have, a project that they proposed to you on several occasions; indeed, before the tendering began, you were already aware of this project, of what they failed to do; a project that, taking advantage of in this case the potentials of the highway AG-11, assumes a new model, by the way, besides, exportable to other more efficient territories and, of course, much more sustainable and eco-logical: connecting in a single transport line the four industrial polygons of the district - Ribeira, The Poor, Boiro, Rianxo - with four single stops, from which the launch mode would emerge smaller buses and connect with the urban hubs of the city halls, by performing, yes already, many more stops. In this way you would respond to the frequency needs and long-distance transportation times of Barba, which in most of you — as I said and you know — would be used to go to your work centres, while the rest of the population's demands would also be solved. The neighbouring of Barbanza, Counsellor, demands an immediate solution to the problems of road transport, with the restitution, for example, of the deleted lines, an increase in the services that meet their needs, as should be agreed with the councils, councils that, as I have just explained, offer sustainable, ecological and efficient alternatives; but you, to yours, and so on. I am going to ask you the question, Counsellor: does the Government of Greece give a quick and immediate solution to the many problems facing the neighbouring of Barbados as a result of previous misplanning and the current malfunction of interurban road transport?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u207	Thank you. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u208	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, of course it's always a joy for the Socialist Party to show some interest, even if it's very small and interested, in public transport. The truth is it's a matter, of course, residual for the Socialist Party, and we're going to explain it in today's question. Of course, it is very serious for us to comply with the Galician Public Transport Plan. We follow this public transport plan because we think that the transport plan should be useful and adapted to needs. We are betting on an effective, competitive transport plan and, of course, that it is tailored to needs and that it is much more modern. I had the opportunity to come here in Parliament recently and qualify for the successful Public Transport Plan in Galicia, and I reiterate it again. That's what we've done: 127 new contracts, more than 3,400 new transport lines, 2.3 million services a year and more than three million passengers that we mobilize every month. These are the data of the new Public Transport Plan, which, I insist, is alive, of what we keep track of, because we do checks, we watch and we want to make the necessary continuous improvements. And the Barbanza district is no exception, and so we set in motion service adjustments when their exploitation was carried out, already effective; it was already in February 2021. Also on November 29th, after the restrictions have been lifted, as well as the resumption of work and education as a result of the coward, we are making improvements, we adjust schedules, because it is a live public transport plan, in the fifteen-minute range, improving coordination, strengthening services, also improving connections with Santiago, and actually incorporating seven lower stops, eight lines in the area. But at this point, Your Honor, the neighbouring Barbanas have 925 public transport services in Galicia City by bus a week in the area, to cover the displacements. Working days: Boiro, La Pobra do Caramininal, Ribeira, 35 services to go and return, from 6.20 a.m. to 23.30 a.m.; you have to add 68 other daily services between A Pobra and Ribeira; between Ribeira and Noia, 29 services, from 6.45 a.m. to 22.30 a.m.; and we will also strengthen connections with Santiago. Your Honor, in any case, if you are concerned with public transport, you should review the Law on Sustainable Mobility that promotes the Government of Spain, because, if you propose administrations, it is the proposed administration that you must pay; it is a privilege for you, rather than a right. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u209	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u210	I was already surprised that they didn't talk about Pedro Sanchez's government today too. Look, Counsellor, you can say what you want, but the fact is that the current offer certainly does not satisfy the demand at all, because it is based on an inherited concept of the previous model; neither was it innovated nor was it ever intended to show greater sustainability, as it was proposed to you -- I told you -- the Town Councils of Barbados, who know very well, very well, the needs of their population. Don't give sterile figures, it's no use; talk to me about schedules, talk about plots, talk about stops. Look, the only concept that's gained and that's mastering in this contract that's been, as I say, a year ago, is that of profitability, and in view of its response, and also that of the People's Group on the countless occasions that we brought this issue here, the only profitability you're concerned about is that of the company. In fact, you have just talked about a competitive contract, a public service with which the Government of Greece seeks to optimize the profits of the concessionary company, by the way, as it has already escaped some honourable Member on one occasion in a parliamentary commission. Or never seen, or seen. Counsellor, there's a general dissatisfaction about the entire population in this matter, and you know it well. What we don't understand is how I'm not able to assume that this contract doesn't work properly and recognise that they have to be more diligent in their task, obliged, supervisory, that they don't perform, Counselor, as much as you say yes, and force the company to make the necessary adjustments. I repeat: why don't you assume the plans of the counties of Barbados, which can, of course, adapt to your needs? You can do it, if you want, too, more competitive, as you say. Why not innovate and bet on a more sustainable and efficient model? May you, Counsellor, have made the same interest in the transport of road passengers, which is your competence, that the commitment you make to rail transport, which is no longer your competence. I ended with a simple request: now, that a year after its start is shown the inefficiency of an outdated model, feel again with the counties of Barbados and adopt a constructive stance that improves the model of public transport by road. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u212	Thank you, President. Do you think it's 925 public transport services per week in Barbanza? What it's like not to manage public transport by bus, in hours, in times, in lines, we're seeing it in Ferrol, with the Socialist Party in Ferrol, who has the competences of urban transport, and doesn't put any line, no public transport schedule in Ferrol; that's his way — of the Socialist Party — of managing public transport, forget it, and that's not my problem. So they're no examples of anything. Also in Santiago, where urban transport, the competence of the Socialist Party, which governs, is expired, does not renew it and so is urban public transport in Santiago. In Vigo we already know: they want to get 30% down to the workers, because it looks like the break; therefore, public transport of urban buses in the Vigo Town Hall, where you rule, as well as more of it. Is that the example you want us to follow in Barbados or the 925 services, sustainable, efficient, designed by specialist technicians? Or do you prefer these examples of Ferrol, Santiago, Vigo? You don't get tired of demanding Galician board, of course you do, and why don't you need New People's Card? What do you think of the New People's Card that we apply at the Galician Board? 110,000 boys under 21 years of age. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh, they don't want him to be in the cities where the Socialist Party rules. That's the way you do: to demand the Council of Galicia but to defend the Government of Spain when it's harmful to Galicia and also cities when they don't apply social measures like these. [[Applause]] They do not demand the railway services to be restored by the pandemic to the Government of Spain; there we do have dozens and dozens and dozens of complaints, it is there in the railway services that do not rest the Government of Spain. You know about the bus expeditions, that the Government of Spain has skills by bus. Because you come here to teach me lessons and you're not legitimized to teach public transport lessons. Bus services between autonomous communities are reduced by 30%, expeditions are being carried out by 70%. What would it be like for you that the expeditions of the Galician Bus Board were cut at 30%? I wonder. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I don't think the Socialist Party is a reference to teaching me public transport lessons, Your Honor. I think we have to look at what others do, compare and balance. That's the draft law on sustainable mobility, which has just failed. I ask you to read it, I read it with arrest, and the truth is that it scares me, it's harmful to the countryside, but they read that the proponent administration has to pay; that's why we ask nothing. [[Murmurs.]] Therefore, public transport, Your Honor, the Socialist Party cannot teach us any lesson. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u213	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Pablo Aranguena Fernández, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece with regard to meeting the allegations of the Chamber Council in relation to the layout of the pathway
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u214	Whenever you like, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, two very recent judgments of the High Court of Justice annul the approval of the draft plot and the environmental impact study of the avenue of arable chamber; they also annul the approval of the constructive project corresponding to that plot and therefore, in fact, involve the annulment of part of the path path. One of these rulings annuls the approval of the construction project by the Union in 2018 because the report assessing the allegations submitted follows the agreement of the Union approving the project itself; that is, the Board approved the project without taking into account the allegations made. A defect that anyone can understand is very serious, because it's as much as saying that the board of directors on December 5, 2018, of which you, Counsellor, were part, who passed the file for approval, did not even analyze the allegations made by those affected by the project that you were approving. Our question is simple: in front of this revolver, in front of this double court, what are you going to do to Junta? More specifically: will the Board collect the allegations of the Chamber Council and, consequently, modify the map of the maple track to its passage through Chamber? Sadly, the answer has already happened yesterday to you, who, in order to vary, blames the Bipartite, also blames those who resort to it and does not dare to blame the High Court of Justice, but almost misses very little. You also said you wouldn't admit taxes, so you said. Counsellor, what taxes do you not accept: those of the High Court of Justice? Don't you accept the impositions of Justice? Well, there's nothing else left to admit, because if you don't, there will be other rulings that will return to your administrative acts, because I'm sorry to inform you that the rule of law works that way, as one of your advisers will probably be able to tell you, even though it seems like you don't like it. In any case, not only one, but two rulings confirm what many people have been complaining about for years, and their reaction is to blame everyone, anything less acknowledge that they are stepping up to the falls, that they have already half taken up the wetlands of the gendara, that they have an important ecological value, and that the High Court has only entered the first pleas alleged by the Chamber Council, but there are still more reasons that it hasn't even analyzed, but that it will analyze in the future if they follow that direction; in particular one of these two judgments, there are seven more reasons, in which the court — I insist — has not even entered at the moment. And, therefore, a very important work for La Coruña has been in progress for 20 years and has never ended and you've been on board for 13 years, and now it's paralyzed. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u216	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u217	Are you going to assume some responsibility?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u218	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u219	Thank you, President. I, Your Honor, thank you for bringing this question about the paved road here to Parliament and putting black on white on issues that happen on the open road, because the person responsible for the original sin, of course — I have to say it again — is the Bipartite. But you let me explain! [[Murmurs.]] They can't tell what a project is mapping from a constructive project! Mr. Arangénana doesn't know that the plot project, approved by the Bipartite, is the plot project going on in the Gandaras area, traced by the Bipartite, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that we really have to make history. The advisor was María José Caride, 2005-2009. I think they have a lot to keep quiet, because the reality is that they are Bipartite decisions, with that advisor, of which we also have the PXOM judicial judgement of Vigo nullifying as a result of the management of these four years — but unfortunately they only ruled four years —. Because here's the DOG: resolution by the Director General of Public Works, Morato, in 2009, approving the plan to deal with the Gandaras, a Bipartite project, which we corroborate, a draft draft draft draft draft approved by the Bipartite. [[The Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser lady displays a document.]] Judicial judgment: "We must conclude that, although the draft outline was submitted in its entirety to the then-existing Road Law, it had to be approved at the Council of the Union." I mean, he issued a resolution to the CEO instead of bringing him up to the board of the board; that's the fault, so he comes in cascade with everything. So in the Bipartite -- and you can't handle things -- you ruled and made them wrong. And, of course, now you recognize that there is a difference between what is a plot project and a constructive project. The constructive project comes from that plot project, because we trust and confirm that plot project, because the plots don't impose politically, which is what I said; not terxive. Do you bet that you have to politically impose a plot because yes, because I say so, because I value it? No, the traces of road projects must be the result of a multicriteria analysis analyzing different concepts: road safety... says yes, but security would travel at a closer point. [[Murmurs.]] That's nothing, Your Honor, when we have the Ferrol-Santiago fork—which I'm sure you all took it—if we have a link around it, with the braided ones, what's going on? Do we have to put the road safety of all road users in danger? Therefore, tracing projects have certainly not been politically imposed. And, Your Honor, they have achieved a historic milestone, yes, twenty years of work and turn it into dust, as a result of this resolution by a director general, who should have been approved at the Board of Trustees, at the Bipartite, Your Honor. We continue because we trust all the procedures and follow the procedures with that project of tracing. Of course, in Four Ways it will never be possible, for road safety problems, because there's a close chest. And, therefore, the traces are not politically imposed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u221	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u222	Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u223	Counselor, you said "Bipartite" about ten times. Look, the Bipartite ended in 2009, 13 years passed; Counsellor, 13 years, in which you had the administrative record in your hands to correct what you had to correct and to do what you had to do. [[Applause]] Do you imply, Counsellor, that the magistrates of the High Court of Justice are also part of the Bipartite? [[Laughter]] Look, Counsellor, the need for this work has been recognised in 2004, for you — I insist — 13 years. This work is not finished and now it says that two judgments of the High Court of Justice reduce the dust — you say — what has been done all these years. But, look, what are you going to do? I mean, what I'm asking you is, what kind of measures are you going to take to address the situation? Because it seems to you that they give equal weight to the judgments and persevere in their mistakes, in the prejudice of the public interest and in the benefit of particular urban interests, just the opposite of what they should do as an administration. I'm telling you that the High Court of Justice has only entered the first two pleas, between ten and ten, by the Chamber Council in those two judgments, but there are many more. And if you're right in the mistake, if you follow the same line, in the same direction and blame the Bipartite, and do nothing but blame the Bipartite, for there will be other judgments. And it shall not be the fault of the magistrates, or of the Bipartite, or of the plaintiffs; it shall be their fault, which is the competent and responsible administration. Stop throwing balloons out and blaming an administration that's been gone for 13 years without touching this file! Finally, Gandara's wetlands have high ecological value, you've practically already destroyed it, half of them have razed a wetlands that are a priority habitat in European legislation and as well as cultural interest in the Union catalogue, in the catalogue that you've made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u224	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u225	...since 1994.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u226	Thank you. Question close, Infrastructure & Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u227	Thank you, Your Honor. But -- I insist again -- I think we have to distinguish the plot project from the constructive; the constructive develops as a result of the plot project. I invite you to take a plan, and the draft trace approved by the Bipartite passes through the area of Ghana. Because you're criticizing me the plot, which is from the Bipartite. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'll read the court sentence again. It's just that I'm doing a chronicle of what the court sentence says. Here we have to conclude: "We must conclude that, although the draft outline was submitted in its entirety to the then-existing Road Law, it had to be adopted at the Council of the Union." And that's the consequences of the sentence, that's what the court ruling says. As a result, the draft outline, which we also approved, was approved by the Bipartite — I do not think it is a danger to say — and approved and ratified by us, therefore, both by the previous technicians in 2009 and by the technicians now, with DIA, with a declaration of environmental impact — that you understand that you will respect the declaration of environmental impact, in addition to road safety in trace projects. There were judicial offensives, different judicial offensives, even by the criminal, about this work that we believe is fundamental. It is necessary to carry out a project of tracing, evaluated with multicriteria analysis, where we agree; but it is that the two-party government and this government agree in that plot that is now in question by a defect of form, of procedure, and not of the background. What are we going to do? Then face it with seriousness and responsibility, Your Honor, because it couldn't be any other way. We want to invest 40 million euros, but they won't let us. But they're not here on tenders, on trial, on detention, on RC! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 40 million euros! What are we going to do? So look for solutions, as always, because we are a government that seeks solutions. We will deal with the judicial judgements, of course we do, and reserve the right to appeal to them in the event that the Legal Counsel advises them to resort to them, of course it does. And, of course, the first one, trying to at least end the connection to N-VI, because security would travel for us — for others not — is really important, ending N-VI for that link. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe the road safety doesn't matter to others, I don't care. And of course we won't move any more centimeters until we have legal guarantees, because it's clear that there are judicial offensives and we'll continue to have resources. And I think that in all these twenty years of work, the cost is incalculable and, therefore, we're not going to advance any more centimeters until there's legal guarantees to finish the N-VI. And I insist again: I invite you to take a plan, look at the layout and take the 2009 CEO and see that the plot is approved by the Bipartite and this Galician board, and go to the Gandaras. [[Murmurs.]] Why? Because it's much safer and has a lot less territorial condition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u229	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Ovidio Rodeiro Tato and six other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the main factors that have contributed to reducing the dropout rate in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u231	Mr. Wheel, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u232	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, early school dropout is one of the most sensitive problems in the education system, because students are supposed to leave their studies without the official accreditation of them. There's nothing more about inequality and lack of opportunity for students than a high drop-out rate, because of the enormous difficulties that work entails, and it has even been suggested that school drop-out is the foretaste of social pathologies and marginality. In 2005, Galicia was walking on a downward course as to the school dropout rate, located in 2005 at 22%. Over the next four years, school dropout increased year by year, to be placed in 2009 at a very high rate of almost 26%, particularly 25.8%. This increase in the period of the Bipartite, 2005-2009, was expected to rise by four points from the drop-out rate, despite being the autonomous stage of greater economic goodwill and, therefore, with much more budget than in later years. Start a spectacular download after this period. This very important drop in the dropout rate is the result of the application of an educational model driven since 2009 to correct one of the greatest failures and weaknesses of any educational system; an educational model that is set by the culture of effort, as do the most advanced, more innovative, competitive and transformative countries. Because school failure will be resolved by promoting the culture of effort and not by lowering the level below, as it does the left every time it governs. That is why we put the following question: Mr Counsellor, what are the main factors which, according to the Galician Council, have contributed to reducing the dropout rate in recent years? Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u233	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, the truth is that you design a stage where data certainly demonstrates two very different ways of making politics. It is true that in 2021 we are achieving the lowest dropout in our recent history, namely 8.1%. And it's also true that in 2009, in the exchange of government from the Bipartite to the beginning of the Feijóo Government, we were at 26%, increasing at an average point per year during the Bipartisan Government, despite having a tremendously important investment right now. And from that year, in 2009, there's a progressive reduction with constant dynamics to the current situation. We're talking almost of a reduction of eighteen points, a reduction that contrasts with the previous data, and which, of course, is the result of the sum of a collective effort of the educational community as a whole. On the one hand, from the administration itself, no doubt, but especially from the work and effort of the management teams, teachers, families. Finally, from the start of a series of projects, programs — well collected by the teacher, well collected by the centres — that enabled us to take steps to reduce and reduce one of the most worrying issues in the education system, as surely school dropout is. What does that mean? They were sent to the streets hundreds of Thursdays, thousands of Thursdays, without any kind of training, leading them to vital itineraries because frankly complex. Obviously, this is not random fruit. This requires a lot of effort, a lot of planning, a lot of work. It also requires the launching of well-accommodated, well-accommodated educational projects that have yielded results. We can talk about the program contracts, the Recovery Plan, geared towards the empowerment of skills in the students who need it most. We're talking about innovation programs, well received by the professor. We also talk about vital strategies in recent years, such as multilingual strategy, such as the digital education strategy, as well as diversity care programs, and the autonomous community that most students have integrated into the educational system. We have made a tremendously strong commitment to vocational training; vocational training has advanced very significantly in recent years; employability, adaptation to the labour market. Finally, it requires certainties to the whole educational system so that we can move forward in such an important variable, as fundamental as the reduction of school failure. Having said this, we are concerned and we are concerned about the current educational framework, where we are entering into a dynamic of uncertainty motivated by the government of the state, which, of course, proposes a series of initiatives that are going against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u236	... specifically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u237	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Rodeiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. This parliamentary group would in some way like to congratulate the work of the entire educational community on having Galicia at the moment have that lowest dropout rate in our history. Because, in fact, when I was ruling the left, instead of reducing the rate, it was rising from 22% to 26%, against the People's Party government, which, as I was raising 1 point, is now going down 1.5 points on average per year. I think it's a relevant and very significant data. And, of course, this data believes two ways, two radically different educational models. While the People's Party model bets to promote the culture of effort, bets on reinforcement programs, bets on helping those who need it most, the left model bets on solving the school dropout rate by decree imposing the general approval, in which it is equally acceptable to suspend, in which it may study rather than study, in which the recovery tests in the ESO are eliminated and in which the holder without limit of suspension is facilitated. The model on the left is set by an educational policy behind the autonomous communities, as they also did with the law LOMLOE, which the only one who contributed, in addition to fixing Catalan independenceists for linguistic imposition, was a hasty calendar that is now unable to comply with and which compromises the start of the next school course due to delays in curricula. It is a very serious matter on which we would like you to sink, Counsellor, because of the consequences of this serious delay and non-compliance by the Ministry. Nothing else, president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u239	Thank you, Mr. Roder. Close the question by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, there are certainly two models of educational policy, which the People's Party practices, which are based on effort, which is based on quality, which pursues equity, equality of opportunity, education in values and results; and which we are seeing is implementing the Socialist Party, which devalues all of the above, is based on "easiness", in what it gives, with different aspects that certify what we are saying. You said one: we can pass course regardless of approved or suspended subjects, content is reduced, knowledge is reduced, recovery exams are suspended, there is no numerical note in secondary school; ultimately, a system devaluation without importing results. And I always say, what are Spain's autonomous communities with better educational results? The answer is simple: Galicia and Castile-Leon, both governed by the People's Party. Certainties, we have to make sure. The development of the current law generates enormous improvisation, it is a bad law that is being developed in an improvised manner. And here are two fundamental problems, one in form and one in the background. The way we're seeing it these days. Today, practically on Holy Week, the bachelor's curriculum has just been approved, failing to meet the Ministry's own deadlines, with a consequence resulting from this delay, which we have already said on several occasions. And it is that there are some drafts that do not coincide with what is published and that are really going to generate great stress in the education system — in the teacher, in the organization of centers, in the formation of teachers; that is, in the different variables that confuse the formation of space itself. And there's also a tremendous weakness in the background, in the contents, the contents are devalued. Today we knew that the contents of Spain's history begin in La Pepa, in the Constitution of Cadiz, in 1812, all the above does not exist for the formation of Spaniards, and of the Greeks, by extension. What are we going to do from Galicia? From Galicia, of course, we will transfer knowledge prior to the year 1812 to our students. We can't let a Greek student who is in Spanish history not know the Catholic Kings, he doesn't know the Austrians, he doesn't know the formation of the liberal state, he doesn't know everything that has to do with the disappearance of the Old Regime. They are basic and fundamental elements, and if you don't know them, it's very easy to manipulate future generations. And it's something we don't want, we want future generations of Greeks and Spaniards to have knowledge, to have critical capacity, to have freedom, ultimately, to choose. And that's why we think these resumes are bad in shape and background...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u241	Thank you, Counselor. You got it, thank you. [[Applause]] Question from Da Olalla Rodil Fernández, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on housing aid directed to women in a situation of violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u242	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u243	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. You know that, but for those who don't know him, in Galicia there are two types of housing aid for the rent paid to women in a situation of macho violence. One is the rental bonus for the board, which women who, in addition to believing the status of victims, can access for a period of two months. The second is the lease on the budgets of the State Pact against violence, to which all women in situations of violence who believe this condition as a victim can access. Today we are asking from the Block specifically for this second line of aid, those of the State Pact, which the Union did not call for 2022 and for which the corresponding extensions are not being processed either. Women — you know — have the right to receive this help for up to three years. This delay causes, first, no woman in this country could ask for help since December 10, 2021; that is, for four months, no woman can be incorporated into the program. And masculine violence — they will agree with me — does not understand administrative timetables or four months a year in which it does not occur. [[Applause]] And the second consequence is that you're not paying the payments corresponding to the rent of January, February and March 2022, which means for women entitled to the extension who have all the reports and documentation submitted at the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Solo by social services. This is not new and since the BNG we've transferred it to the secretary-general of equality in commission a year ago, in the debate of the annual law follow-up report. We warn you of the delays and problems that drag on these aids, both those of the Union and those of the State. And renters refuse to rent women in this situation because the monthly rents are not guaranteed. Together, as we see, it doesn't help to provide security. The funds of the State Covenant against Male Violence were distributed by agreement of the Sectoral Conference of Equality in the Official State Gazette of 10 March, almost a month ago. What we ask of you today is easy. First, let's call the aid for 2022 and pass the extensions already coming from the previous call. And secondly — and most importantly — that we need to change the basis of the call for our own aid so that there are no empty months, so that no woman will have to wait for four months for the Board to decide to call for new aid to be incorporated. So let's avoid the revitalization of women, who already have enough to overcome a very harsh psychological and physical situation. Junta, the Public Administration, has got to help get out of her, not make this situation worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Mrs. Ánggeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u245	Thank you very much, President. As a woman and as a member of the executive, I must say that one can never doubt the firm commitment of the Greek Government to women victims of gender-based violence; as well as the support we have to give, indisputable and irrevocable, to his family, his children and his daughters. And, of course, that's supposed to give them a housing when they need it. And that's where we're working, working everywhere, with help so they can access a home where they can continue their lives. In fact, the women who are victims of gender-based violence, apart from the specific lines, as the two who have just introduced you — and who are known to all of us here — have a favorite character in most of all the help that the Galician Institute of Housing and the Solo has to get to live in or rent a house. But we have two specific aids for victims of gender-based violence, one is the social lease bonus — which is indeed targeted at women who have been under protection. This line was taken out on December 30, 2021, with an budget of EUR 860,000. These are budgets that are extended according to needs, and I hope we don't have to expand them, because it would be a good signal. Applications can be submitted, submitted, from January 3rd, and are aids that are open all year round. For the third consecutive year, we're accounting for one hundred percent, because there was a pandemic, because inflation is off course and because the situation this year is still serious. And on the other hand, we actually count on the fine rental of victims of gender-based violence that started in 2019 and to which women victims of gender-based violence, women victims of sexual exploitation, women who suffered victim violence, or interposite violence, as a result of death, and children under 30 years of age from these victims of gender-based violence. As you know, this aid we have been granting for four years is funded by the funds of the State Covenant against Gender Violence. We've been waiting for months for the Central Government and its relationship. The pact was finished, in January we had to have clarity about what was going to happen, and do you know when we got the answer? Exactly four days ago, March 31st. Until 31 March there were no guarantees of the continuity of this covenant and its funds. And what there is now is a commitment expressed at a sectoral conference, but it's not yet closed. There will still be a working group to carry it out. What I can assure you is that this can't be delayed and that it's something that you should also transfer, just as we are moving to the Central Government. Because you don't play with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u246	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u247	Yes, I can read the DOG for now, thank you. I was hoping that you too would have the ability to read the Official Gazette of the State I have just mentioned to you on 10 March, where the corresponding funds appear to Galicia and other autonomous communities and cities from its entry into force. The State Pact ends in December 2022, that's how we all know it since it was approved in 2017. And they tell us -- you too -- that they're already working on renewal. But, apart from that, what I'm asking you is when they're going to call the aid and process the extensions with the funds they already have, and to those who are entitled to the victims of macho violence as of today according to the summons that it was ending and ending in December 2021. They're not working because, if they were working, they'd be processing these extensions and not dilating four months, four months!, the payments to which these women are entitled. [[Applause]] I brought here a case, I told you earlier in the morning, remember. I have a case of the aid to which a woman is entitled — which was also the case we put at that time to the Secretary General of Equality. She is next door to Santiago, a victim of macho violence, a degree of disability of 39%, a woman who lives with a compensatory pension, according to the judge's papers, of 470 euros — we know that men often do not pay. He pays a rent of 250 of a housing considered by the social services of Santiago — open quotes — "in very bad living conditions." He's got a right and he's been waiting for a year in that register of housing applicants from the BNG in the morning to be a priority collective. And I insist on this question. We've brought up a case, but it's hundreds, for the data of the summons that have arrived and the data that have been sent to this House. Do you think that people in this situation, women in this situation, can be waiting for months for the Board to call the aid and, besides, through extensions that these women have been entitled to for three years?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[Applause]] Close the question by the Environmental, Territorial and Living Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u249	Mrs. Rodil, the truth is we know how to read you and me. Better. And now he can read everyone in Galicia. Distinguished is the interpretation to be made. What comes out at the BOE are extensions, and extensions are guaranteed, Mrs. Rodil, they are extensions! What is missing is the funds that are not of extensions, and, as I told you, the communication is March 30, of exactly four days ago, and that a work commission will be convened. The autonomous communities urged the Central Government. Please do it! They're part of that government! Or do they forget that they support them in decisions, forget that they are able even not to vote against the Housing Law, that housing law that gives legal insecurity and that causes those housings that are empty at last not to go out into the market? That's the reality. I think I gave him information, and inside that information is the rental social bonus. We continue with 100 percent of those aid to women. And what if I can assure you is that all women who are victims of gender-based violence are known to the Galician Union if they are looking for a housing solution, to all women who are victims of gender-based violence! or either through a bonus or through direct adjudication. [[Applause]] And what I can assure you too, Mrs. Rodil, is that no Welsh woman who is a victim of gender-based violence can be defeated in Galicia. That's the reality, they can't be defeated in Galicia those women from which we have knowledge on the side of the Galician Union. So we'll keep working. And, indeed, there was a state pact, a state pact that was ending. And you want to tell me what they've been doing so far? It's a state pact, it's the central government! And don't say "yes," because you're part of it. And it's resources that have to come to the autonomous community. We were guaranteed those funds or 30 March. And yet, what I can assure you, too, is that, if they don't get those funds to the Autonomous Community, the Galician Union will enable the funds, because these women won't stay at the stake. That's the reality. So we're prepared to get the call out, the problem is in the resource, the problem is at the bottom. And just as we are the rest of autonomous communities. The one who depends directly on us — which is the rental social bonus — has been removed on March 30, can be requested from January 3rd and are calls that are open. Because, in fact, these women can't wait, because gender violence doesn't have a month or a day. That's the reality, but that moves you to the central government. It's a state pact, why don't they transfer it to him? I agree with you. All I'm telling you is that you have your hand, let's get out of your hand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u250	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Question by Da María González Albert and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons for the inaction of the Galician Union against the defaults of the private security company of the public hospitals of Valdeorras and Verín to its workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u251	You have the floor to Mrs. González Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u252	Good afternoon. Before I wished to greet the security workers at Valdeorras Public Hospital, who made an effort to travel here this afternoon to find out what happens with their jobs. Today we are going to ask you, Counsellor, who is doing the Board of Directors of Galicia to ensure that the wages of these security workers are paid, not only from the Public Hospital in Valdeorras, but also from the Public Hospital in Verín. And I have to tell you that I come sad to this session, I come sad and I come, in addition, very angry. And I'm sad and angry because once again the Board of Galicia, my government, is doing away with its functions. I'm very upset because this question would never have to come to this plenary, because, as we saw this very morning, we have to wait for this BNG question to appear on the agenda for you to move your finger. That's it, Counselor, a true indecency. This problem had to be solved two months ago. [[Applause]] And it would be settled if the Union, if the People's Party, was dedicated to ruling and not walking from April Fair to Spain ahead. Forty-five days ago, BNG registered this issue. At that time Mersant Security was due to one month to the workers of these public hospitals. We're right now in April and it's been three months, three and a half months without charge. This fact, which would already be unsustainable for any working family in a normal situation, becomes absolutely dramatic on an issue of inflation and rising prices as generalized as we are living. And what has he done to Galician Union all this time? Absolutely nothing. He got confused about the problem, let go of the service staff, and we were hired to undertake future judicial complaints. And while at this time at the Valdeorras Hospital, for example, we've seen janitors working as security guards, an assault on an optional, a true disincentive, counsellor. And I'm going to save you from reporting here the arguments that people responsible for EOXI are giving all this time to security guards, because they're absolutely gross. You know better than me that it rains on this problem in Valdeorras and Verín, than the previous security contract had to be judicialized by the workers after five months!, five months without charge and without the Junta giving them any solution, and that those proceedings ended with the conviction of the company and condemnation of Sergas — who was also declared subsidiary—. And we're talking about February 2021 judgments. You didn't start breaking the sentence until November. Nine months have been waiting for the workers to make that payment. That, too, they didn't pay the total debt, they had to receive a later legal requirement to pay that hundred percent — which, by the way, is already on trial but that the workers had not yet received. [[Applause]] What Sergas has to do, Sergas' responsibility, is not to abandon the workers to his luck, because it's his responsibility, Counselor. I remind you that we're talking about ten families affected by Sergas' complicity with this pirate company. It is not to be defended that the modus operandi is always the inaction and abandonment of the workers, who have been totally defenseless in the face of their passivity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u253	Thank you. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u254	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. González, precisely in relation to the previous contract, which you referred to in your question, were the measures that were taken cautiously from the Health Council, such as withholding the payment of invoices or seizure of the guarantee, which allowed the workers to collect the total of what the company owed. With regard to the current contract, it is in December 2021 when the first complaint is moved to the Labour Inspectorate regarding payroll — in this case workers throughout the country, not only workers in the services of the hospitals of Verín or the Barco de Valdeorras—. Once this complaint is recorded, the first measure to be taken, in accordance with the principle of the maintenance of the contract, is the opening of the procedure for imposing the corresponding penalty. This concludes with an administrative resolution on 3 March this year, Mrs González, in which it is said to be very serious. And it is also taken as a precautionary measure — again a precautionary measure — not to return the final guarantee until the contractor believes that his obligations to social security are fulfilled. And in the light of the new implications of the performance of the contract — after the opening-up of the salary of December 2021, the lack of payment of January and February of this year's payrolls, or the lack of coverage of two low-labour jobs — last 4 March the agreement was concluded with the adoption of the following precautionary measures: to retain the amounts due to the contractor by the service provided to ensure the payment of wages due to the employees who are employed in this contract, to retain the final guarantee until the contractor is satisfied that both his obligations are met and with Social Security, as well as the satisfaction of the amount of compensation for the damages and prejudices which are caused to him in this case to the autonomous administration until the very moment of the termination of the contract. On 15 March, a meeting was held with the employees on the contract to inform them of the proceedings so far. They were also transferred at that time, and I now transferred it to you, to this plenary, of course, which were the few workers of this company throughout Spain who collected their payrolls in November and December 2021. As you see, Mrs González, the inaction you are asking is not such — it is my intention to tear down the arguments, except the relationship with the April Fair, which I do not know what is coming from — but, as I have just listed, all the measures and decisions that allow us to collect in the recruitment service and in the Public Sector Contracts Act have been taken. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. González Albert's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u256	Counsellor, these people have been unpaid for three months, they've been unpaid for three months, and you have a responsibility, because you're the holders of the service. Is that working for the workers of the public hospitals in Valdeorras and Verín? [[Applause]] You have an obligation to these people. And I'm asking if you paid the January and February bills to that company and why you didn't link the payment of those bills to which pay the wages was made to those workers. Mersant has been on the list of local companies in Fatenda since August 2021. And I'm asking you if you've been tracking, from that moment on, what you were doing with the money you received from all the Galicians and the Greeks, because it's money from the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] That company broke into service, when it started doing this work, failing to comply with the contract law and paying late wages to the workers. It was not to be, of course, very insightful to assume that the thing wouldn't go on wheels. And, look, we have to stop lying to people, tell the workers that with this we couldn't terminate the contract. Law 9/2017 of 8 November 2017 on public sector contracts, Article 211, Cause for the settlement of public contracts, point (i) "The default during the execution of the contract of wages by contractors to the workers who were participating in the contract". You had all the tools to terminate this contract before, and you didn't want to do it, as if you did other councils -- by the way, also at the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, because here until things come to Parliament in Galicia, you don't move a finger. [[Applause]] This company had a sanction, as you said now, because it's very serious in the payment in December, and we're in April, and the workers still don't charge their wages. What we're talking about here, Counselor, is about people, about working people who have to charge, who have the right to charge for their work. And I repeat that this is not the first time you've been in this situation. Do you wish that in 2024 again anyone in this Parliament would have a debate similar to the new company now entering into this contract in precarious, too, a new pirate company? What they have to do since the Council is to guarantee the working rights of their fundamental workers, taking charge of them directly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Albert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u258	...of your service and ensuring that the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u259	Thank you. Time's up. Close this question by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u260	Thank you, President. Mrs. González, I don't know what part of my previous answer you didn't hear well, I might have to repeat it. I've explained it to you... yes, the one on the Fair of April I'm sure you heard me well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to insist again on the measures I have just reported, which have been made to ensure retention, those precautionary measures that I have just explained to you. And I repeat that I will send them in writing. As far as the current situation is concerned, the procedure for the termination of the contract is now under way. I spoke on 3 March, 4 March and 15 March. And today, on the day we are now, this procedure for resolving the contract after serious breaches is being dealt with — we fully agree that there are serious breaches, of course, yes. Despite the lack of collaboration on the part of the company and not to attend convened meetings, it is necessary to carry out — and I feel that you do not know this — procedures according to what is provided for in the law you referred to, and exhausting the deadlines. That is why the draft resolution was transferred to the contractor to make the corresponding allegations. In this draft, it is noted, among other things, that the contract should be entered into through the provision of the service with a third party by means of an emergency procedure — which we hope we have resolved this month — to ensure its continuity, continuity of the service, while the procedure is being processed to adjudicate a new contract. Once the hearing proceedings are completed, the motion for a resolution together with the allegations that, if the case is the case, will be submitted to a legal report. Don't I know if you know what that is? And in case the contractor manifested his opposition... [[Protests.]] [[Prosequent murmurings and protests.]] President, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u261	Silence! Silence! It's a debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u262	Don't tell me that. What do you want me to say? It's a debate and a point. It's over. Time's up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you want me to say? It was no insult, it's nothing, it's parliamentary debate. What do you want? Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u263	Anyone here can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u264	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u265	Here anyone can talk about the State Contracts Act without knowing it and I can't tell you the steps that this law has. The law says what it says, and this proposal has to be submitted to a ruling from the Consultative Council of Galicia. [[Applause]] All right? The situation of the company at national level also affects workers who provide their services at the two health centres in Ourense, but I would like to point out that, despite the current situation, at the time of the recruitment — and this is another important issue — the company met all the required requirements, so it guarantees its economic solvency. We want to transfer our commitment, on the one hand, to the workers to ensure their rights, as proved by the facts I have tried to report here today; and on the other hand, to count on a proper provision of these services, both in Verín and in the boat, as soon as possible. Yes, it is far from the inaction that you accuse us of without contemplation, because since you have been aware of the problem, all the actions planned to solve all the workers as soon as possible and to ensure, as I said, the provision of the service, always, that is, within the law of state contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-05-DSPG077.u266	Thank you, Counselor. It ends here full and we see each other tomorrow in the delivery of the medals. Good night.
