ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u1	Good morning. The session is open. First of all, before we move on to the agenda, which the first point is questions for the President's response, we want to greet the students of the senior training cycle of Administration and Finance and Assistance and Directorate of the Rodolfo Ucha de Ferrol, La Coruña. Welcome to Parliament. And also to all the guests who accompany us today in the rostrum. And all the more, we start with questions for the president's oral answer. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Union by Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the tax measures provided for by the Government of Greece to deal with the current situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u2	Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President of the Galician Union. I also greet the student of the Rodolfo Ucha de Ferrol and the people who accompany us. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, everything points out that this is going to be the last question I'm going to ask you as President of the Galician Union, that we are going to pass an interim president to a president in practice. Therefore, it is time to balance Galicia that you leave, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. In terms of health, there is a negative increase, as you would say — for all to understand — in terms of personal cuts with all the letters. In primary care, there is practically a balance of thousands less optional since 2009; there is primary care that is collapsed and with a huge structural problem; there are eight hundred beds less in the Greek hospitals since you arrived at the Presidency of the Galician Council, which is equivalent to all of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo. In surgical care, waiting lists are indecent and unable to be hidden. As far as education is concerned, Galicia now has a thousand and four hundred teachers less than in 2009. In this time, yes, you have removed the free textbook program and replaced it with one that results in equally costly practice but that in turn serves less, and you have closed more than a hundred school units, that is, public. In social policy, the picture is devastating, because almost seven hundred thousand people in Galicia are at risk of poverty, one in four, and we have a deficit of fourteen thousand squares in larger residences. And it's not data that made this spokesman's office, but the State Association of Social Services Editors and Generators. There's a forgery of reality on waiting lists, since there are nearly 10,000 people who are pending to be included in some computer tracking system on those waiting lists. As regards housing, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is the last of the State as a percentage of public housing housing on the built housing. In youth, you leave Galicia with no future, with youth unemployment higher in Galicia than in Spain. In the demographic field, 100,000 people less than in 2009, according to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, — I insist — are not data from the Socialist Party of Galicia. In the economic sphere, the occupied population fell nearly 60,000 people during its term of office, while it grew one million in Spain, with a much worse rate of activity and occupation in Galicia than in the state as a whole. Over the past five years, the industrial production index has dropped by 6.8 in Galicia, while increasing by 3.3 in Spain, ten points of difference over the state average. The German IPC is superior to the state at virtually one point. And, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, Galicia now has six billion euros of public debt more than in 2009; two out of every three euros that we owe the Greeks and the Greeks in public debt correspond to their years of government. In industrial policy, regardless of the lucky announcement yesterday, there's nothing. The levels of execution of their budgets over these 13 years leave twelve billion euros unimplemented, which in practice is equivalent to that which we closed the Autonomous Community of Galicia on January 1st this year and do nothing until January 1st next year. Or to understand us as well: the equivalent of fourteen hospitals Álvaro Cunqueiro. Mr. President of the Council of Galicia, Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, you, instead of doing more with less, have done less with more. In short, a thousand less primary care students, eight hundred less beds, four hundred less teachers, one out of four Welsh people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, one hundred thousand less than in 2009, fourteen thousand more Greek people who have no place in residence and six thousand four hundred million euros of public debt. This is the big trace of Galicia you're going to leave. And now you're going to Spain by teaching tax policy lessons. And that's why, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I ask you to clarify at the moment that measures will take your government within the autonomous sphere to deal with the current fiscal situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u4	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome to the Ferrol students. Mr. Álvarez, so we can hear after your question, nothing matters about tax matters, among other things because since you came to the government the only thing you've done was to raise taxes to all the Greeks and all the Spaniards. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you say that the person who replaces me in charge of the Galician Union, who will have to be voted in this Parliament, is a practical president. Look: any member of this government has more experience of government than the entire Socialist Party Parliamentary Group together, any of them. So, in practice, you should book it. [[Applause]] But, as is customary, Mr. Álvarez, you should, as it suggests, be of the last interventions as President of the Board, at least to say things with a little common sense and, above all, adjusting to the reality of the facts. Since we arrived in the government, Galicia has been Spain's second largest autonomous community, between 2009 and 2021. Since we've reached the government, we're on record of exports throughout the country's economic history; in the last year, 25 billion euros of export, with a positive balance of more than two thousand five hundred million euros of surplus. Since we got to the government, you last year had destroyed fifty-seven thousand jobs in 2008; today there are just fifty-seven thousand jobs more than when we got to the government. Despite the financial crisis and the pandemic crisis, today there are more people focused on jobs and fewer people targeted on unemployment lists than when you were in government, and 1,028,000 affiliated to Social Security. You speak of public debt. A member of the Socialist Party speaking of public debt! Spain's public debt increased by 200 billion euros in 2020 and 2021, and comes to teach public debt lessons. Your Honor, we are the autonomous community that has less increased the public debt of Spain, the autonomous community with less increase of public debt of Spain. [[Applause]] We are the second autonomous community with less public debt per inhabitant. Shouldn't you take this last question of yours to the President of the Council of Galicia to give at least some real data? Your Honor, you speak of education, fifty-one thousand more enrolled in vocational training, one hundred and fifty percent more; twelve years without touching the university fees, twelve years frozen. Your Honor, you speak of education, and we have the best data in the history of Welsh education in school failure. When you were in government, 26% of the students didn't finish their studies, now 8.1%. Your Honor, are you really going to keep talking about the data as you like? [[Applause]] You speak of health, eight hundred million euros more in health investment. You speak of the staff, 17 percent more health personnel than we did when we arrived at the government. You talk about waiting lists, and you stay so loud, if you don't even remember the waiting lists you had. Look, in priority 1, which are the most urgent pathologies, the waiting list dropped by sixty-two percent, and priority two, and priority three-- you know why, Your Honor? You didn't even have priorities to care for people. Your Honor, ninety health centers, a public hospital in Vigo novo, a public and equipped new hospital in Lugo and all the hospitals in construction, whether in full extensions or remodelling, and you come here to teach health. And besides, he makes an incursion into social services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u7	... fourteen thousand people collecting the dependency, sixty-three thousand five hundred now. The students who are listening to us know, Your Honor, that fourteen thousand is much less than sixty-three thousand. And you seem to consider it a disgrace. The double of residence squares, the double; the double of disability squares. Your Honor, at the poverty rate, Galicia is still below the average of Spain, despite the Socialist Government, which since its arrival has exponentially increased the rate of poverty in Spain. But, Mr. Álvarez, why don't you tell me about real data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u9	...in order to keep a conversation and some reflections and bring something to Galicia? With all due respect, Mr. Álvarez, since we got to the government we've lowered taxes, and you've been taxed since you got to the government, increased the deficit and increased your debt. With more taxes, more deficits and more debt governs any, even the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u10	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, something we've moved forward, at least you just told me that this is the last question I ask you; so, you're going to resign before the next plenary. We're moving forward. And with regard to Mr. Rueda, do not consider me, Mr. Rueda, a lack of respect but a professional deformation. When one assumes a new responsibility, from a functional point of view, it becomes practical. I don't mean to say that you haven't been in the Government of Galicia for years. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you come here at this discount time to present yourself as an immaculate manager. And the data I gave you, as you can see, for very little success, are real data. Those thousand optional less in primary care are official data, those eight hundred less beds in the Greek hospitals are official data, those one thousand four hundred less teachers are official data. May you draw your chest from a reduction in school failure, when it's a parallel reduction from all over the state, as if this were a singularity, it's for them to make you look at it. One in four Greeks, Mr. Núñez Feijóo — and not data from the Socialist Party of Galicia — is at risk of poverty. [[Applause]] We have 100,000 people less than in 2009. There are fourteen thousand people who don't have a place in residence because there's that deficit; how much, of course, for the student -- who are a higher cycle and will have to have a little more respect -- of course they know that sixty thousand is quite much more than fourteen thousand. That's an obvious fact that doesn't hide the deficit that exists from squares in public residences. And, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, whether or not you want to admit it — because it is data that can be officially contrasted with multiple sources — there is an increase in debt of EUR 6 billion 4 billion corresponding to their governments. Look: you have a normative capacity about ten tax figures that, of course, I don't have time to report but that you know perfectly well. And it turns out you're making a series of proposals to the state, but here within its own regulatory framework, there's not the slightest warning that I intend to make any of the changes that you're proposing to the Central Government. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, it would be good if you announced this last round, as far as my parliamentary question is concerned in the control session, if you are going to take some action within the broad competence framework that you have in the tax field of the autonomous community. I would, for example, like you to announce that you are going to eliminate that 25% bonus from the estate tax, because of course we know who benefits, which is not the common of the Greeks and the Greeks. I would also like very much, Mr Núñez Feijóo, which you have solemnly announced — as you like to say — in this Parliament is part of the policy you are proposing to the State to reduce the disindemishment of IPC pensions. It would be good if you publicly denied that within this program there is no least intention, so that all the Welsh and Spanish and Spanish people would calm down and be able to appreciate that there is no such intention on the part of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] I would also very much like you at this time to announce to the whole state whether tomorrow's Congress will support the validation of measures directly favouring all Spanish and Spanish people, because they are reducing the cost of electricity, they are reducing the fuel supply that we supply every day. And, therefore, if you go tomorrow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u13	...to give the green button at the Congress of Deputies, and see if he is able to make this announcement or he wants to leave the protagonist until the last moment to Mrs. Gamarra. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I deeply regret that this is the balance you left after thirteen years of government. I can understand that the data can be interpretable and that they can be seen in different ways, but reality -- however much you here argue from a different point of view -- is that these data that I just said are real, they are contradictory, and unfortunately they answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u15	...to the inheritance that you left after 13 years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u17	...of government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u19	...in this autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u21	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u22	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Álvarez, you insist and persist in doing an undisputed and unfortunately analysis — I have to say it from the very absolute cordiality — with false data. Look: when we arrived at the government the public debt of Galicia was Spain's fourth highest, and today it's Spain's third lowest in the common regime. When we arrived in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks owed more than half the Spaniards, and today a Greek owes about three thousand euros less than half the Spaniards. That's why we're the second autonomous community with less spending per inhabitant, and that's why we're the first autonomous community with less debt increase in the last twelve years. A little respect for the students who are listening to us, because all of us here know that, except you. Mr. Álvarez, with all due respect, you speak of teachers. You, who is a teacher — or at least an educational inspector — know perfectly well that Galicia is the place with most teachers per student in Spain, and yet you ignore that data. Why? Because it benefits Galicia and what it benefits Galicia seems to be that it harms the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Mr. Álvarez, with all due respect, when he speaks of a hidden debt that has left us two billion euros of bills without paying in the drawers; that's what you cover. We paid the two billion, we owed ourselves less than anyone and we stopped issuing five thousand seven hundred million euros of debt, which we could issue just to match the average of the autonomous communities. Why are you hiding all that data? It doesn't make any sense! Are you told to hold a control session in the Congress of Members in the Galician Parliament? I'm about Galicia and I'm going to talk about Galicia. If you want to talk about the problems you have with the Republican Left or Bildu, it's wrong to sit down, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] It is wrong to sit and ally Parliamentarians. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, say we don't lower taxes, when we lower the tax of six times for six years the tax of transmissions and documented legal acts, when we lower the tax of succession four times, when we lower the tax of income of physical persons six times, and twice the tax of heritage. That is, whenever we lower taxes, we count on the negative vote of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. And when you ask what we're going to do in tax matters, and if what we propose here is different from what we propose in Madrid. No, Your Honor. Before we start the excuse for the Ukrainian war, we lower the taxes. In October last year we brought a tax discount, and you in the Budget Act voted against it again. And what does the tax discount mean? Back down the income tax of physical persons, down the tax of property transmissions by about ten percent, and about twenty-five percent to the share of property tax. You speak of property tax, but you will remember that sentence and that decision that "to lower taxes was left", the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. But not only did the estate tax go down, but it was suppressed in its entirety. Do you really think students don't know each other and parliamentarians don't? Mr. Álvarez, with all due respect, what you just did to say goodbye is quite frankly surprising. I was hoping that you would have a little more parliamentary level so they could save the furniture a little bit in this question, which is the timeline of a socialist Party of Galicia, underprivileged, Your Honor. They stopped being a state party in Madrid and here they're no longer a Greek party. Exactly, what are you? In all respects — and I would like to reiterate it — they voted against lowering the income tax. Today a Greek pays 403 euros less in income tax than they paid with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u25	About twenty-two percent of low income tax is the subject of the Galician People's Party in tax matters. And you're always against lowering taxes to middle and low rents in Madrid and Santiago; there they don't change. With all due respect, we'll keep working. Look at the increase in taxes of the Socialist Workers Party Spanish: rising of the IRPF, reducing the deductible limit of the access to pension plans, rising of the company tax, rising of the registration tax, rising of the quota of self-employed, rising of the tax of property transmissions when referring to the cadastral index...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u27	But do you really come here to propose a tax drop when all they do is raise taxes, raise debt and raise the deficit? This government will continue to work independently of whoever its president is, because this government has been elected to the polls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u28	Please finish, president. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u29	And that's why we're going to pass a new bill tomorrow, that of business areas; I hope you have the Socialist Party's visa and pleasure. By the way, I thank you for congratulating us on others, it's a good plan. [[Murmurs.]] While you close Alcoa, we open Others. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u30	Thank you, President. [[Extensive applause.]] Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the level of inflation in Galicia in relation to the state average
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u31	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, I am glad that today your new occupations as President of the People's Party allow you to be in Galicia at this control session. Especially because we're in the middle of a price crisis and there are thousands of Galicians and Greeks who don't reach the end of the month in a country that has the lowest wages and pensions in the whole of Spain. [[Laughter]] And each and every one of these people pays their wages, Mr. Feijóo, while you spend more time in Madrid taking over the People's Party than in Galicia dealing with the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] In case you didn't realize it, because you did an intervention that seems to live on another planet: here's a brutal crisis, Mr. Feijóo. The prices are out of control... yes, yes, we have the biggest price crisis in forty years, and the situation in Galicia is worse because we have an IPC higher than the state average; specifically, seven tenths higher, Mr Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] In twelve months, heating, light and water rose by 63%, oil rose by 32%, basic products in the shopping basket of any family — we speak of milk, we speak of eggs, we speak of meat, we speak of fish — about ten percent. What salary does this bear, Mr. Feijóo? The workers and the workers don't, I'll tell you. We also have a refinery in the Coruña, we pay environmental costs, but we have the most expensive gasoline in the state. We have four thousand windmills in our mountains, we have our rivers full of cheers, we pay the environmental costs, but we have no benefit in the bill of light. Mr. President, I wish I could do my intervention. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if they're nervous and nervous in the People's Party, but... anyway, democracy, right? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And while the Government of the People's Party vetoes the Welsh electric tariff and vetoes any rise in taxes to the electrics, that these are actually breaking through in this crisis. [[Applause]] And you refuse to give any more to endure this crisis and to help those who are worse at it. [[Applause]] What we are proposing is a tax drop to further weaken the public, to continue to weaken health, education, public services; ultimately, to continue to weaken the state of well-being. Mr. Feijóo, it is not necessary to lower taxes to the richest, as you do as President of the Union, but measures must be taken to prevent the impoverishment of the working class, support the productive sectors and put in place structural changes that allow us to give the people of this country a better future, including the students and the students of Ferrol, who have the right to be able to look forward to their future. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, you're neither expected nor expected, because it's not that we've been without president for three months, it's that we've been with a "no" government for 13 years, for "no" to everything that means the defense of Galicia's interests; a government that has as its sole objective to keep itself in power at any cost. Leave, Mr. Feijóo, a Galician man worse than he's found, and for nothing to be lacking he'll be fired with the greatest price crisis in forty years. And that's why I ask you today, Mr. Feijóo: how do you value that price in Galicia is higher than in the middle of the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, I've been on for sixteen years in all control sessions, both in the opposition, when we were allowed to ask the government a question, and you, who were in the government, asked the government twice. Those were the control sessions we were all surprised at. Can you imagine that a group with thirty-seven seats, most of them absolute minus one, can only ask the president of government twice a month, and the groups that support the president of government asked him four times a month? Those were the control sessions Mrs. Pontón speaks of. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, I know that BNG doesn't like this to be part of Spain. And that's why when inflation rises in Galicia it's because of the Greeks. That's right. When inflation rises in Galicia and the rest of Spain, it's also because of the Greeks. But not from all the Greeks, the Greeks who don't vote for the BNG, because the Greeks who vote for the PP are also guilty. Indeed, we have a dehydrated IPC, with a higher price increase of the last 40 years. Forty percent more than the European Union average, and you shut up, still betting on government, which is the most responsible for this situation, ruling with them in all institutions, councils, deputies. And here you try to save your face, hold a parliamentary group responsible and a party that are asking to lower the taxes on middle and low income so they don't have to pay twice for it, twice for it: once by the increase in prices and again by the increase in taxes on prices. [[Applause]] And you say that's not to protect the working classes. Look, Your Honor, rising prices by about ten percent and not lowering taxes is destroying the ability to reach the end of the month of working classes. And you're just accomplices, accomplices of this situation. If a litre of gasoline was worth a euro and now it's getting to two, the collection is twice as much. And we're just asking for prices to rise, at least taxes don't rise in the same proportion. The Government of Spain has raised seven thousand and five hundred million euros more in the first two months. We ask that, at least, that money that has taken too much of the transfer to the middle and low rents, and you oppose it. Yes, at least I got you to disqualify me for asking for a tax discount, when the Socialist Party tells me not to lower taxes. It is perfectly the government coalition of the opposition. But, with all due respect, Mrs. Pontón, in Galicia there is something more about the problem of energy. In fact, food prices are lower in relation to the increase in Spain, but the prices of energy rise above the average in Spain. And why? For a disorderly, improvised and unfair transition. While Germany is increasing the number of thermal power stations, all of them have been closed in Spain. As long as the rest of the countries don't unleash energy, as long as they don't power new energy, in Spain we unleash the energy that works and we don't have the news yet. And now it seems like they've come to a project in relation to gas prices. We'll be very careful, Your Honor. Who's going to pay those five billion euros? Will those who have long-term contracts pay? How many of these five billion euros are we going to have to put our French neighbours down on energy? Is this lower gas price also meant to lower the energy price we exported to France? Your Honor, tell us very well what your partners are doing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u36	Since their partners don't want to explain it, perhaps the BNG who rules with them, they can explain it. Your Honor, I am here to defend Galicia, and I will do nothing but defend Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm not, of course, going into contradictions saying one thing in Galicia and another in Madrid. But what is worse, ladies and gentlemen: saying something in the Galician Parliament against the Socialist Party and ruling with the Socialist Party in all the municipalities and all the Galician deputies. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u37	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u38	Mr Feijóo, I believe that the students and the Ferrol students have just seen a practical example of what is the Feijonian chess. Of course, you made an intervention today in which it makes it very clear that you came here to be the leader of the People's Party, and not even in your last control session to exercise as President of Galicia. [[Applause]] And it's all a portrait here that says that in the midst of the greatest crisis the president of the Union believes that it is the fault of the Greeks and the Greeks. Yes, yes, that's what you said in your intervention. [[Murmurs.]] Well, and the BNG, the BNG too, of course, because everything that happens in the world is the fault of the BNG. Of course, you rule Galicia for 13 years, and no responsibility, but every time there's a problem, take the BNG wildling. Anyway, check it pure and hard, Mr. Feijóo. And of course the light comes up. Do you know why among other reasons? For an electric reform that the People's Party made in 2013. And does your legacy know what it is? Keep hugging the electric lobby and prevent the Greeks and the Greeks from benefiting from our electrical wealth. [[Applause]] That's your legacy, Mr. Feijóo. And, of course, have you dropped taxes? Yes, especially the richest. But he also dropped other things: he lowered the number of doctors and doctors, he lowered the number of teachers and teachers, he lowered the budgets of collapsed primary care, he lowered the investment in science and innovation, he lowered the services in rural, he shut down one hundred ten unit schools and he was going to fire without building a single public residence in this country. [[Applause]] That, Mr. Feijóo, is his legacy: lower the quality of life for the Greeks and the Greeks and weaken the public. This country deserves something better than a People's Party that in 13 years leaves us a Galiciar than it has found, with less employment, with less industry, with less health, with fewer young people and less equality. You're the party of "no", of "no" to everything that means the defense of Galicia's interests. And this country deserves a government that says yes, to say yes to Galicia, to give a future to young people, to health and public education, to sustainable industry, to equal opportunities, to feminism, and to a dignified old age. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, let me say yes to a Galician woman in the future. Mr. Feijóo, you may not have noticed, but the People's Party is the past and, of course, the first to leave the boat in Galicia is you, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] Because they know that the German change is on, because of course there is a hunger for change in this country, Mr Feijóo. In Galicia there is a hunger for change, and since BNG we aspire with all humility, but with all country ambition, to lead this change to give the Greeks and the Greeks a better future. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And if I may, to conclude, Mr President of Parliament, I believe that political forms are also important. And today it seems that this is the last control session Mr Feijóo is going to be here and, therefore, I would like to be able to pass on to you, leave here my institutional respect as President of the Board. I have a great deal of respect for my country, for your institutions, and I want to show you that respect. I want to wish you the best in your staff, too, you have to understand that I can't wish you any success in your politics, but all the luck and best in your staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Galicia today has five thousand and five hundred million less debt than it would be worth simply to equate itself with the average debt of the rest of the autonomous communities. And we lower taxes to the Greeks a billion euros; to the low incomes a twenty-two percent in the income tax. If you add the lowest debt and the lowest taxes, we leave Galicia and the Greeks with seven billion euros more in their pockets, in their heritage, in their family economies. That's the result of a policy that only the Greek homes are committed to. Mrs. Pontón, for a moment it seemed to me that Mr. Alvarez' questions had been put to him, because you made any kind of consideration but not of inflation. Because you know perfectly well that autonomous communities practically have no instruments to lower the price of light, that is, none. And one of the problems of the Spanish IPC is the increase in energy prices. But you shut up when the thermal power stations shut down, not only they shut up, but they applauded. And you guys every time we want to make a wind park, they're going to put us on a platform. And every time we want to talk about cohabiting fishing and shellfishing with marine wind energy, we're going to have another problem. And the question is, what really is your project?, wind energy, renewable energy, hydraulic energy, thermal energy? [[Murmurs.]] You're the project they have is simply to wear off the Government of Galicia, that's right, unless you're a government. But that's not a country project. Mrs. Pontón, have we not made a residence? They're seven doing seven at the same time. One hundred and thirty million euros. [[Murmurs.]] And as we've managed to get a Greek to fund these residences, it turns out that it's not worth it. It's a shame, Your Honor, that you have this vision of life. [[Murmurs.]] If there is a Welshman who wants to make one hundred and thirty million euros available to Greek society and build those seven residences simultaneously, that deserves a unanimous applause from the camera, gentlemen. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, in 2016 we were pioneers in help to avoid costs of light supply; in 2017 we approved an Energy Efficiency Act and guarantee accessibility to electricity, and in 2020 we are again the first in all Spain to supplement the Energy Bonus with 100 euros. It's all against the BNG. During his years to the electricians, they had a fine of 97,000 euros. During our legislation, to protect consumers, electricity was fined at 26 million euros. That is to have no more goals than to defend the general interest, Your Honor. But let's take a little look at what we did for lower income policies. Look, to eliminate any kind of increase in a university rate in the last twelve years. That means families save more than two hundred euros per child. What did we do? Zero non-rural taxes. The only autonomous community in Spain since 2016. One hundred and twenty-three thousand sales or purchases were made with zero taxes. Are you against this, zero-tax in rural? What did we do? Don't pay for the inheritances, 99.9% of the Greeks. What did we do? Let the children who live outside the cities travel for free throughout Galicia. Those under 21 years of age in urban transport. I know it's not in the city; where you rule there, they don't make any discounts. I'm not interrupting, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] One hundred and seven thousand boys. [[Applause]] What have we done, Your Honor? Don't charge any children's schools to any son or daughter of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These are the specific tax policies. That's why I'm surprised, Your Honor, that you come here to teach lessons on how we can protect low incomes and middle incomes, by making these fiscal policies. Your Honor, I reiterate again: if we have an inflation of ten percent and we have an increase in the collection of seven thousand and five hundred million euros, why don't we return the part of the taxes as a result of inflation to those workers who have just paid the double of taxes as a result of the increase in prices?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u42	Why are you against this? Tell the workers. If a worker who paid a litre of diesel to a euro and is now squeezing both, why do you have to pay 42 cents of euro? The logic was to pay as much as I paid before, the 21 cents. In Italy, Mr. Draghi, who in economics knows a little more than Mr. Sánchez, lowers the VAT of gas and electricity to 5%. In Spain, the VAT of gas is 21%. And now it turns out you've made a deal, we're going to study the deal. We'll see who pays the five billion euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u44	It's not going to be that they pay the five billion euros of gas those who had contracts for several years at low prices and now they're going to raise them, because then we'd make the European ridiculous. With all due respect, Mrs. Pontón, I believe that our tax policies know them Galicia, and Galicia knows exactly what it does, and what Galicia does is to vote every four years and have an exemplary democracy, exemplary stability, institutions that protect them, a Statute of autonomy that it defends and a Spanish Constitution that meets. So we have no commitment to those who have no interest in the State, nor have any interest in the unity of the Spanish nation. And that's why I think you're on the trail of Bildu, of Republican Left, and it's a weak favor to the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u46	Don't take your hands off your head. You're going to the Republican Left and Bildu myths, and now it turns out they're holding hands; don't go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u48	It's pretty simple; don't go, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u50	Your Honor, I've noticed in the last control sessions that you're in a bit of a hurry to kick me out. I ask them to respect the people. Look: I regard Galicia, it is perfectly compatible to be president of the Union and president of a party; that is, Mrs. Pontón. Mrs. Pontón spokesperson for a national party. I have the right to be, too, don't I? [[Applause]] However, Your Honor, I understand from the very first moment that twenty-four hours a day are not enough to dedicate to Galicia. That's why, from the very first moment I assumed responsibility, this month, there are no three, of which Mrs. Pontón speaks, not this month, on the second day, with Holy Week in the middle, I understand, of course, that I have to make myself available to this Parliament. I think you should respect the country, respect a correct transfer, a correct investment session, comply with the regulations, comply with the Act of the Union and its president. That's respect for Galicia. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this will not be my last intervention as President of the Union, this will be my last intervention as President of the Union, because this week I will present my resignation as President of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask the President of Parliament for a minute of mercy, since it will be... do you really not let me say goodbye? [[Murmurs.]] So far comes the constructive opposition, Your Honor? The truth is, that's very difficult. Mrs. Pontón, put a little order on the top benches because they're a little altered. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all Members and Members with whom I had the opportunity to work with them, all of them, without exception. I also want in a concrete way to show my respect for the seventeen speakers I've had the opportunity to debate in the past thirteen years, the Socialist Party and the BNG. I remember Mr. Jorquera in a special way, Mr. Leicega, Mr. Méndez Romeo, all of them at seventeen. And I remember, as you can imagine, those with whom I participated, both Mr. Ruíz Rivas and Mr. Pedro Puy. And I am very grateful to you, those of the opposition and, of course, to those who have supported the Government. I would like to express my thanks to this parliamentary group, the parliamentary groups that came directly out of the polls. It is clean democracy, it is democracy in which I believe, it is vote democracy, it is democracy of people's sovereignty; in that I believe. And whenever I ruled, I ruled directly with the votes of the polls. That is why I respect this parliamentary group. [[Applause]] I want to send a special and infinite gratitude to Galicia. Why? For the love I have always received from all the Greeks and all the Greeks, without exception. If I'm here, if I've been here in this chair for thirteen years, and in this upstairs chair for three and a half years, it's because the Greeks and the Greeks trusted us and trusted me. I sincerely apologize for all the mistakes I've made, which I'm sure were some more than I'd like. And I apologize for any kind of expression I had used that you didn't like or consider excessive. Of course, I don't expect any excuse for those who have used it on me, they're in the Journal of Sessions. And with humility I will defend the correct facts, the correctness of the Greek society, not the correctness of the Government of the People's Party, nor of the parliamentary group, nor of mine, the correctness of the Greek society in the pandemic, in the economic crisis, in the financial crisis, and also the correctness of the educational community and the health community. And I firmly ask all Members and Members of the House, and especially those who have the responsibilities of government, that the only commitment they have is the interests of Galicia, no other. And despite the heated debates that take place in the Chamber, I thank you for your farewell to Mrs. Pontón. I'm sure Mr. Álvarez wanted to do it, too, but he didn't give him time. So I feel very comfortable with that recognition in the last few seconds. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that from these benches I was happy to defend Galician interests, and I only used two seats: this as the leader of the opposition and I am president of the board. You'll see that when you're in government you're going down a seat because you have to increase the government's obligation to the responsibilities of the Greeks and put us in the service of all the Greeks, whether they're in agreement with our ideas or not. I want to insist: from these benches I've been happy, I'm proud to take my Greek status wherever I am, and I can assure you that in the same way I served the Greeks over the last few years I'll continue serving the Greeks there or there, because all of us here, and I'm the last, and in this case the first, will continue serving the land mother. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u51	After this farewell emotion, I wish you luck, too, President. Institutional statement on the headquarters of the Spanish Oceanography Institute
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u52	And now we're going to read an institutional statement on the permanent headquarters of the Spanish Oceanography Institute. It's an agreement from all groups and I'll read it: "In view of the decision taken by the Spanish Government, which leaves Galicia without the requested headquarters of the research areas of the IEO, Instituto Español de Oceanografía, de Vigo and La Coruña, the Parliament of Galicia is summarizing the unanimous voice of the whole of the sea and of the whole of the Galician society to demand a rectification from the state authorities and that Galicia host the fishing and aquaculture sites for the important scientific work that the oceanographic centres of Vigo and La Coruña have been developing over the years. The IEO centers located in Galicia are among the largest centers in the state. They work more than a hundred people, they develop a major research effort in the fisheries and aquaculture field, converting these centers into those that have a greater trajectory in this field. The Oceanographic Centre of Vigo, in synergy with the Coruña, and the oceanographic centres of Portugal and other international states and entities work hand-in-hand with the fishing and water sector of Galicia, ensuring sustainable fishing and placing the sea sector as a strategic sector for the economy and employment of Galicia. Vigo is an important fishing research pole, which is part of the IEO itself in Vigo together with the Institute of Marine-CSIC Research in Bouzas, the future campus of the sea and all the research that takes place in the various universities and other Greek administrations. Such a question occurs with the centre located in the Coruña, which makes this community and its IEO centers suitable for hosting the permanent headquarters of fishing vessels or aquaculture of the Spanish Oceanography Institute. This would certainly affect, in a positive way, the addition of the demand for the intensification of the relationship with the fishing maritime sector and the coordination of the work carried out in this field from the autonomic point of view, thereby deepening the influence that can be made on scientific research and advisory bodies for the European and international decision-making framework. In any case, the ability to work and to bring the work of the IEO to a positive level depends in a good way on its economic and organisational support; a key issue that has been demanded by both the Government and the Galician Parliament itself. So, and in parallel to the question of the eradication of the head office of research or the head office of the oceanographic institution, the development of an institute's structural recovery planning is needed; the question without which its work would be in need of the future. Santiago, April 22, 2022." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u53	We continue with the next item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the actions to be carried out in Galician Union to allocate 50% of the collection by the tax of hydrocarbons that transfer the state to subsidize gas oil to the companies of the Galician road transport of passengers and goods
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u54	There is a self-amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u55	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We have just seen what the control session was for the President of the Galician Union as the president of the Galician Union himself showed what is the way of governing by the Galician Union, especially since June 2018. The way the Galician Union has to rule is to move away, to say that it has no competence and everything is to criticize the central government. That's the way he's currently president of Galicia to rule Galicia. Because even today he came to question and say the risks that there might be in the face of yesterday's achievement by the president of the government, by the president of Pedro Sánchez, along with Portugal, who got the good visa from Brussels to find the price of gas, and that this will also allow for a reduction in light. And today even the President of Galician Union has questioned this. [[Applause]] I wanted to see such a Mr. Rajoy negotiating this in Brussels, because that is what the European ridicule has done on more than one occasion. And, on the contrary, we have seen how President Pedro Sánchez is able to lead in very important matters in the European Union, as he was the first to propose these European funds, those Next Generation funds, which also reach our autonomous community. But, well, we were very accustomed to having the President of Galicia's board questioning certain decisions taken by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, saying that the AP-9 bonuses would not arrive in July of 2021, and there they are; that the AVE would not arrive in 2021, and there it is. [[Applause]] And by focusing on the initiative that we are bringing about today's debate, in view of the fact that many of the economic sectors of our autonomous community are still suffering the serious consequences of this pandemic and the cowardly-19 that we have been living, the fact is that Russia's invasion of Ukraine, in addition to causing a humanitarian catastrophe with thousands of dead civilians and millions of displaced people, has also caused a change in the economies of the European Union, which has its immediate transfer to the increase in the prices of fuels in raw materials, which affects in a very strong way the strategic economic sectors of our autonomous community, such as fisheries, agriculture, livestock and also the transport sector. We talked yesterday about the aid that could be put into effect at the Galician Summit to address the consequences of the fishing sector suffering from the indiscriminate rise in fuel prices; we saw as if we were told last week that only the aid already granted would be accelerated, that there would be no specific help to cut off and help the sector in this fuel price rise. And he also told us that they wouldn't give these direct aids because they would come up against the aid that he put on the table the Government of Spain for the fishing sector and because, in addition, the fishing sector itself wasn't asking for them. But we have seen how recently the National Federation of Brotherhood asked the various autonomous administrations to also put direct aid to complement the Government of Spain's support in the fisheries sector, as well — I would like to remind you — other autonomous communities have already put on the table. On the other hand, the only measure they said from the Galician Union to help the fishing sector was that exemption from port charges in ports of autonomous ownership. A measure which, as I have already said on other occasions, was announced with a great deal of candy by the President of Galician Union himself on 17 March, and then also on numerous occasions by the Councillor of the Sea. But it's just that today that exemption from port charges still doesn't have the necessary legislative changes and is therefore not operational. And it's also a two-month tax exemption, very different from the rate exemption that the Central Government has already operated since March 31st, which is for six months in the state-owned ports that are located in our autonomous community. Furthermore, the Government of Spain, the Minister of Planas, has also been able to lead negotiations in Europe and has been able to call for the activation of this Article 26 of FEMPA, which allows exceptional aid in exceptional situations as we are living. The Central Government also proposed direct aid for fishing vessels, in addition to the exemption from fees, the award of social security contributions and ICO loans, among other measures. These are some of the measures proposed by the Central Government. The Galician Union, a single exemption from port charges, which today — I repeat — is not operational. If we talk about the livestock sector and the agriculture sector, the Government of Spain has also made it possible for the European Union to make certain requirements of the CAP more flexible so that there can be barbecued land, along with the flexibility of certain requirements for importing maize, which will facilitate the entry of raw materials for animal nutrition, which will also enable the momentary shortage of maize, which has previously come from Ukraine, to draw up pensions. There were also EUR 64.5 million from the European Commission's crisis fund to support farmers and farmers. So Mr Feijó asked the Government of Spain to put on the same count that he put on the European Union — which, as I said, was EUR 64.5 million —. But the Government of Spain didn't put in 64.5 million euros, the Government of Spain put in 128 million. At that time the President of the Union also said that autonomous communities should put among all the same amount as the State and that he was committed to supporting sectors with own funds. I announce again to the President of the Galician Union himself because today with own funds to support these sectors nothing at all. Therefore, the Government of the State has approved a EUR 360 million aid package for the agricultural sector; of these, 169 million are specifically for the dairy sector and 193 million — which is the sum that comes out of these EUR 65 million from Europe and 128 million from the Spanish Government itself — for the rest of the agricultural and livestock sector. I wonder: and Joina here, just like in the fishing sector, what? When are you going to put those own funds that you also announced the president of the Galician Union? When are you going to approve aid for these agricultural sectors? Because we agree that all governments with competences in matters have to put all the meat in the roaster and of course have to help these sectors. Yes, the Government of Spain has also helped. Shall we ask for more? Well, you can do more, too. But, of course, the Government of Galician Union has the ability to maneuver in order to articulate these lines of help. Besides, he has skills in agriculture and livestock; they don't hide that they don't have competence in this matter. So we don't know what's going to be the amount that's going to be allocated to the Galician Union in direct aid with own funds to these agricultural and livestock sectors. And we want to know what's going to be the degree of commitment of the Greek Government to agriculture and to the Galician gain beyond slogans and ads to those who've been used to us since the Greek Government itself. Transport sector. What were the aids you put on the table in Galicia to help the transport sector of both travellers and commodities? None. The only measure was to criticise the measures taken by the Central Government. We from this group had proposals which, of course, the Government of Greece did not want to hear: a direct aid plan for this transport sector; also speeding up calls from the Next Generation aid for the transformation of the fleet of passenger transport vehicles and goods from road haulage companies, prior to consensus, that is yes, with the sector as to the percentages and counties of the various lines of action, as have already been done by other autonomous communities; analysing together with the tax companies of interurban transport and school transport below the price of fuel and their allocation to contracts and services that are in force today; temporarily abolishing the beaches in the motorways of Galicia. But nothing, the German Government doesn't listen. And the worst thing is, he doesn't even listen to the opposition proposals, but he doesn't have his own proposals either. What did Mr. Noñez Feijóo do? For Núñez Feijóo, the only thing he has done in the face of this serious situation that these sectors are living is that the government is lining up with the increase in the price of light and the increase in the price of gasoline, because 50% of the price of light and fuel are taxed. According to Feijóo, "the Government of Spain is lining up"; what does not say Feijóo is that 58% of the state's hydrocarbon taxes are handed over to the autonomous community. So I don't know who's filling up with this fuel price rise. [[Applause]] And Junta also receives 100 percent of the poll on power generation tax. [[Applause]] So today we bring a very clear proposal: if 58% of state-made hydrocarbon taxes -- if the Feijóo is being fed -- if that 58% is being transferred to the autonomous community, there is room for manoeuvre so that with that money you can help the most disadvantaged economic sectors with this rise in fuel prices. What we propose is that this 50% of the money — which taking the 2021 calculations would be around two hundred twenty-seven million — that these two hundred twenty-seven million devote themselves to aid to the most disadvantaged sectors in the face of the rise in fuel prices. I think it's a proposal that makes sense, which is fair, because if the German Government itself recognises that these sectors are going through complicated moments, the Galician Union has money and competences, all it has to do is have will and a little work, and, of course, articulate a line of help based on the money that we propose today in our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u58	For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u60	Good morning to all of you. When I read this bill from the PSOE Parliamentary Group, I couldn't help but look at the registration date of the initiative. This was March 31st, almost a month ago, and in the times that run, a month is a long time. It was the stronger the protest of the transport sector and in the same days that the Government of the State published a supposed shock plan containing measures directed, among others, to this sector. It might seem, of course, a good time to discuss this initiative, taking advantage of the draft of that state plan. But the reality is that the downsizing of the twenty cents would also benefit the sector that contained that plan or the direct articulated aid for freight and passenger transport companies did not imply anything significant, especially for the autonomous and the Greek pemmes that fall within this sector. Because the counties were certainly scarce and were better oriented to flatten some of the spirits of a sector drowned by the indiscriminate rise in the price of the fuel than to have a real and effective impact and compensate for the loss of work that many carriers in this country have and that is still happening today. By setting a graphic example, in the case of direct aid for freight transport undertakings, a direct aid of EUR 1,250 per truck is determined according to the type of vehicle. Something almost anecdotic if we note that filling a tank of a truck costs around EUR 200 and that a carrier's fuel expenditure per week is EUR 2,000. I mean, that help would only cover the expenses of four or five days' work. Of course it's positive. And the rise of the low 20 cents per litre of fuel is another measure that is clear that it's positive, but it's also true that, of course, it doesn't affect too much since the price of diesel remains unabated. As for the German Government, I thought I was aware that these aids contained in that plan were insufficient. But instead of articulating their own complementary State aid, the Union has limited itself to pointing out — in Mr Feijóo's words, and I read textually — that "the losses from the transport conflict are already above the cost of the aid to solve it". Once again, in the face of a late and scarce reaction from the Spanish State, the German Government has merely been a mere commentator, as if the subject had not been with him, remaining more profiled against a sector that is agonying. A further example of the absolute impunity for political instrumentalization that the Government of the West Bank and the state also make of the current economic crisis, as has already been done by the pandemic and its consequences. Instead of reaching the shoulder, maintaining constant and direct channels of communication to coordinate measures and thereby optimizing their effects, both executives seek to extract political revenue and otherwise wear it out. To do this in the current economic and social context is irresponsible and, in addition, it is immoral. If the Galician Union criticizes State aid for insufficient, wouldn't it be good for the sector to articulate its own aid from the Autonomic Administration? Tips that would be compatible with the states and that would complement them, because here both governments have competences, obligations and responsibilities. But instead of coordinating and proposing really effective measures, they spend the day putting their fingers in their eyes. I believe that this initiative at the time it was registered could perfectly frame it in that context: the Galician Socialist Party takes advantage that the Central Government draws a plan of aid for a specific sector, that of transport, to undermine the Union's failure to adopt similar measures, and requires the Greek Government to allocate 50% of the collection from the State of hydrocarbon taxes to assist that sector. The PP, on the other hand, meanwhile criticizes the insufficiency of these state aids, but still having powers and budget to do so does not articulate any help. That is why, through the People's Party's Parliamentary Group, putting the state's duties in the middle of the 5th of last month, with an absolutely inconcreted battery of measures, which in case of implementation would take a long time to produce an impact on a crisis situation like the current one. Don't wait for you, PP lords, nor you, German Socialist Party lords, to enter that absolutely unproductive game. Our initiatives will always aim to improve the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks a little bit. Here in the German Parliament we will demand the reaction of an interim government, which is thinking more about reaching the landing in Madrid of the beloved leader and putting itself in a good position for the remaining vacancies and which will be generated than in governing and taking measures with real effect on the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. In Madrid, at the Congress of Deputies, we will continue to demand that the Government of the State take appropriate measures to the reality of Greece. A different reality that generates different needs, which most of the time are not taken into account from Madrid. That's why in this proactive effort we presented a decade ago of urgent measures to curb the effects of inflation on the economy and on the whole of Galician society, which should be adopted by the autonomous administrations and the central government within the framework of each of their competences immediately. ambitious and urgent measures, such as raising minimum pensions and minimum wages up to 60% of the average wage, as is collected in the European Social Charter; raising wages also agreed with the IPC to, in some ways, increase or maintain the purchasing capacity of popular classes; reforming the tax system to compensate for the loss of purchasing power in the economically most vulnerable population sectors; including the reform of the IRPF to increase its progressivity; selective lowering of the VAT in goods and services of first necessity, such as food, public transport or basic energy services, such as light and gas; increasing the limit on the spending of diets and locomotives; converting corporate tax into a progressive tax; or also revising the tax on wealth and succession and concessions. Before the price of electricity rose, which rose by more than one hundred ten percent last year, we propose a change in the system itself to rationalise prices and a Welsh electric tariff to reduce the bill of light; the creation of a Greek energy company that collects the hydroelectric power stations as they expire; the rise of taxes to electricity to pay part of a crisis that makes them fall from the sky benefits; the price of hydrocarbons to relieve the situation of the most seriously affected sectors, such as agriculture, livestock, fishing or even transport. Concrete and courageous measures that contrast with the incretion of the measures of the PP Government, which in many cases do not cease to be more than announcements and propaganda, and that in other cases when they produce effects, they suppose to lower taxes to those who have the most. From the BNG we have a vision of the country as a whole and we act accordingly by proposing measures that are not only conjunctural, but structural, that allow us to get out of the immediate crisis that strikes, above all, the popular classes of this country, which are the most suffering. A rise of thirty euros at the time of filling up the deposit, having to pay fifty euros more for the bill of light, which has to pay twenty euros more for the basket of the purchase that six months ago, that the prices of the cereal when I feed the cows increase in twenty percent or thirty percent for the war in Ukraine, while the price at which I pay the milk is still made, all this makes it easy to be part of the fourth part of the population in Greece that is in danger of social exclusion, according to the latest report "The state of poverty in Galicia", drawn up in 2021 by the Galician Network Against Poverty. It's seven hundred thousand Galicians and Greeks who are in that situation, said very soon. Or also form part of the 50 percent of the population in Greece that, according to the Conjunctural Household Survey for the first quarter of this year, have difficulty reaching the end of the month; one in every two Greeks. With this situation, the Greeks and the Greeks need initiatives that Galicia thinks in great terms, from a high perspective, which are designed to improve the situation of the productive sectors most affected by the crisis, and not to confront the central government and serve as a launcher for the personal political ambitions of Feijóo el Madrilino. As for the PSOE, the fact of self-amended and expanding the target of 50 per cent of the tax on hydrocarbons to the Greek economic sectors most affected by the increase in their price, that is, their self-amendment, rather than being limited to transport, seems positive to us and goes on line precisely with the amendment that we have also tabled and which calls for this to be addressed to the transport sector, but of course also to the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. It is now necessary to separate themselves from the follow-up with Madrid and to support the courageous measure of asking the State to establish control mechanisms on the price of hydrocarbons, with measures such as temporary reduction in fuel taxes, as well as setting maximum prices for their marketing. In front of this inflationist spiral, the only way is to change the system that drives the energy market and meet the price of fuel. He spoke from this rostrum a moment ago from the Iberian exception. See how long the exception is for? Basically changing a regulation that exponentially enhances the benefits of multinationals in the sector that were already very high, and that now with the current crisis situation they are completely unpunished. Nothing else on my part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I take the position of the group because of the absence of our Mrs Guadalupe Murillo, who, as you know, has delegated the vote precisely because she is suffering from cowardice. We wish you an early recovery. In addition, I have the opportunity to discuss for the first time with the Socialist Party's fishing spokesman, with Ms. Patricia Otero, who, as a good fishing spokesman, brings us here a non-law proposal that could be qualified according to the English term "red herring", that is, a smoked herring. The smoked herring, the red herring, is a classic of rhetoric that consists of a very powerful smell, in this case of the smoked herring, to try to cover up the things that really exist and that are in reality. For example, how to say that the Government gives a lot of European funds and at the same time to be the whole country concerned — and yesterday it stood here in evidence by all groups — for the non-inclusiveness of the demands or demands of the automotive company par excellence of Galicia in the next Generation funds. We're waiting for PERTE. But, to say all of this, the truth is, here's what we're initially asked for is that 50 percent of the tax collection of hydrocarbons is going to boost gas oil. They self-modify and want to extend this to more sectors. BNG also wants to extend it to more sectors, and it wants to control prices, logically. They also ask that the tax of hydrocarbons be lowered; something that, by the way, we ask ourselves in the past with abstention from the Block. Well, in asking for that, what they command is actually a smoked herring. The first thing they want to cover is what Junta is doing. Together, she's doing a lot of things with regard to the crisis in the field of her competences: I would like to remind you that the passenger transport business sector has been given an injection aid of EUR 3.5 million, to these one hundred and twenty-seven public transport concessionaires; now it wants to extend to health and socio-health transport education. An agreement was signed with each other's warranty companies, which allows you to activate funding lines for the Greek service stations. To deal with the advances, and here there is collaboration with the state's adoption of 80 million euros. EUR 28 million was mobilised to finance direct loans to industries affected by the increase in prices. In the field of rates, ITV rates were reduced. At the port rates what you're doing, Mrs. Otero, is delaying the payment until we can modify the tax law, but, indeed, you're no longer paying. It would also be good to know whether the state bonus prevents ships from paying, because it seems to be better directed at merchants. The autonomous highways are the lowest in the state; nothing to do with the Santiago-Lalín motorway. And so on. And even if you are talking through the sectoral tables, mainly with the transport sector, to see that other measures can help you to bring about inflation, which is basically energy and which therefore affects fuel in particular. And, of course, we're asking for a reduction in the tax on hydrocarbons. I would like to remind you that in those proposals that we made to combat inflation, 14 were directed to the state and 14 were directed to the Union, some of which I have just referred to again. So, we're not on a pim, pam, I can ask the state, but each one has his own competences. And when we talk about the drop in the hydrocarbon tax, logically, we have to go to the state. And here comes the second and the worst false clue that leaves us this PNL — I insist — following the strategy of the smoked herring: First. The tax on hydrocarbons in Spain is monophasic on manufacturers and therefore state. There was a time when they could put recharges on the one of an autonomic character, or famous "sanitary penny". But, as you should know, since 2018 and therefore since 2019 this has been suppressed. And the tax is unique, there are two tariffs: one that replaces the amount of health, but on which we have no regulatory capacity, and then there's the state tariff itself: the general rate and the special rate. The curious thing about this tax — let me do an incursion as a Fairy spokesman — is that this tax — as you know — is paid per consumed unit, that is, by thousands of litres of fuel. And what happens is that first, the tax on hydrocarbons is applied, and on the tax on hydrocarbons, the VAT is applied. It is a clear assumption of double taxation, which comes, moreover, determined by European legislation. But the fact is that once the price of the non-tax fuel is applied to the tax of hydrocarbons, on the tax of hydrocarbons, the VAT is paid. So it's a clearly inflationary tax. You think if there's something worth ten and we put a special tax on it and it's worth fifteen, the EVI is about ten plus five. So we're paying the 5th VAT, which is taxed, not the actual VAT of the added value that entails the production of that product. So you guess what we're talking about is that the rise in fuel prices by 5% has to do with this double taxation by the setting of the hydrocarbon tax. Secondly, as a second consideration, you should know, and so it was patented in the Committee on Autonomic Financing, that Galicia does not even receive 50 percent of the VAT. The last ascents the state made, when it passed the general type from 18% to 21% and the decrease from 7% to 10%, are entirely in the hands of the state. That means that despite our nominally receiving 50 percent of the EVV, we're receiving 35% of the EVV. Third consideration. You should know this too: Junta receives exactly 555 million euros as deliveries to the account by the planned collection of the hydrocarbon tax. They were communicated before the approval of the budgets, were included in the budgets of Galicia and, of course, are in formally balanced budgets attributed to expenditure items. You want half of that, 262 million -- that's more than you were saying -- suddenly we pull them out of where we don't know where, we don't make budget changes and we gave them a plan of help. Well, it's obvious from everything I just said, firstly, that the Board does not benefit from the variation in prices or taxes on fuels. Because all this variation at the raise remains in the hands of the State, with added effect as a result that the EVI will be left above as a result of the imposition on the tax on hydrocarbons. Therefore, the extra collection of VAT and any extra collection that was due to the tax on hydrocarbons would remain in the hands of the state. This year we won't receive a weight in Galicia. And what we receive as a result of territorialized participation in the hydrocarbon tax is already included in the budgets; expenditure allocated to different parts. And you, of course, are talking about 266 million euros. That's more than the entire Environmental Council of the Union. So it's not a small amount. What does that mean? So this is what it means to say is that you are bringing us here an absolutely impractical initiative, which, of course, does not leave in a good place who wants to be a government party, to say that 262 million euros are in the budget, suddenly they are assigned, first, only to the transporters, then to the whole world, possibly because they realized that it was a lot, without specifying what is cut. I insist: an amount as significant as it is more or less than the entire Council of Environment of Galicia. And finally, what they want is to cover up the real fact, which today came back this morning, that short-term inflation is an increase in the very important collection. It is precisely the best way in the field of competence of each one, in this case in the field of state, to allow this inflation of supply, because it is not an inflation of demand, not that people have a lot of money to buy lots of things and do not reach the offer, it is in fact, that the supply is limited and people will continue to demand the same products. And precisely to prevent that excess of collection from enriching, reducing the deficit or enriching the state's accounts at best, allowing the citizen to rush to reach the end of the month to have more purchasing capacity, because it is a quite sensible alternative, to which the Socialist Party has not given him the slightest answer. By the way, it's a nice question that's happening with the Socialist Party. They had been complaining for years that the People's Party was making a destructive and non-constructive opposition, and when the leadership in the People's Party changed and the new leader presented a written, quantified document with numbers, in a constructive plan, to see if you can agree on support for the decree that you today asked for in the morning of the People's Party, the silence by reply. Well, I'll finish where I started. This initiative is a smoked herring, that is, it's not really -- very smelly, but there's no reality. We, and in this we believe that we are a little more attached to the ground, aware that we are close to Saint John, we will continue to wet the sardine in the bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u63	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u64	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u65	Thank you, President. Mr Puy, the truth is that this is the first time, the first time that we have to debate. And I'm going to start with the final part of his speech, which said that today the president of the People's Party at the national level, Mr. Feijóo, also asked to be able to speak and negotiate those measures that will be taken to validation tomorrow through that royal decree. I want to tell you that you are asking what you deny us, the Socialist Party. Because I want to remind you that, with the best of constructive intentions, the Secretary General of the PSdeG has asked on two occasions for a meeting with the President of the Council of Galicia to present to you, too, our decalogue of proposals so that we can deal with this exceptional situation which is living these strategic sectors of what we are talking about. And what was the reply of the president of Galician Union? Nothing. He didn't even respond to those requests for meetings. So, a little coherence, which is what I ask you to do, since we are being asked that the president of the government himself receive the president of the People's Party, who has already received it. [[Applause]] So, at the very least, before leaving Galicia, what Mr. Núñez Feijóo should have done is to receive the Secretary General of the PSdeG, who, I insist, with the best of constructive intentions had a chain of measures, in which, as well as that of the People's Party, in our PSdeG, there were measures sent with requests both to the Central Government and to the Unity of Galicia itself. So we don't go down because we know that there are a lot of the situations that are within the jurisdiction of the state government, and it's the state government that has to fix a lot of these problems. You were talking that with this initiative we wanted to cover up what the Galician Union does. Mr. Puy, we can't cover something that doesn't exist. What do you want, let's cover up the idleness of the Galician board so you can help these sectors that are going through it so badly? Because it's not true, they didn't do anything, there's only one direct help to the fishing sector, there's not one direct help to the livestock, to agriculture, to the transport sector. [[Applause]] Tell me why if you really wanted the Government of Galicia to put these measures on the table today, they would support the initiative that we are presenting to you. That initiative that you say is the smoking herring strategy. And what I ask is political will. Is there any wish to articulate a plan of measures by the Galician Council to help these sectors? I'm shown no. What's going on is that you too are a lot of drumming, because the other day I was asking the German Government in committee about whether they'd articulate a line of direct aids in the fishing sector to deal with the problems they're experiencing. Not once in a while. It wasn't the solution, it wasn't the sector, it couldn't because they couldn't complement the state aid... but, however, the Popular Parliamentary Group, which supports the Government of Galicia, yesterday voted in favour of that line of direct aid that presented the BNG on a motion. So today they say one thing, tomorrow they say another. But, well. I with all due respect, Mr. Puy, the truth is that you did also carry out that strategy of smoked herring because you devoted very much of your time to making a good class, as is your heel, of tax matter. And you've been attached to VlV for a long time, but I was saying that at our initiative we're not talking only about VlV, we're talking about all the taxes that are on hydrocarbons. And what we're thinking is that of the 58% that the state gives to the autonomous communities, Galicia, in this case, as a hydrocarbon tax, they target half -- I'm asking 267, which is half 554, I mean it's no less, you said 262; it doesn't matter what it is. What we ask is that half of this collection is intended to articulate these direct aids. You said that the board didn't benefit from this climb. Does the State Government benefit? You think as the President of the Galician Union that the State Government is filling itself with this fuel surge. No, no, of course, the board does not benefit, what benefits is the state government. Well, with that amount that Galicia receives, you could do a lot of things. And you're the only thing that you're doing in front of these sectors is criticizing the measures taken from the central government, and you're here today when you went up this rostrum did the same thing as well. He's been criticising the discount of the 20 cents at the price of fuel... No, no, he also talked about the transport sector's measures. So it's a matter of wanting. If you want, there are the mechanisms, there's the money and you can articulate those lines of measurement. What happens is that you're the only thing you're doing, the Council of Galicia, is criticizing all the measures that come from the central government, without certainly articulating any measure of your own. With regard to amendments, the amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block, the first part of it is the same as we did in our self-amendment, which is true that when we presented this initiative it was intended for the transport sector, because at that time it was living a complicated situation. It is true that times already know what I am in Parliament, that from the moment you register until you can have activated an initiative, circumstances have changed and we have created because it was the most logical thing to expand to all sectors, also the fisherman and the farmer, as you say in your initiative. And with regard to part two, I mean it's something you're also working on from the central government. We want this one now and we want to put the duties on the Galician Union, because if they criticize what the Central Government is doing, if they think those measures are insufficient, what they must do, at least, beyond criticizing that lack of action, is complementing them. So we're not going to accept the amendment that presented the Galician Nationalist Block and, logically, we're keeping our self-amendment. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to develop a plan of response to the crisis and of modernization and development of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u67	Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Olalla Rodil. No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u68	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. He said the other day to Chaina Ser -- I don't know if they heard him -- in a headline: "The president of the Union is in Galicia today." It seemed to me a great appreciation that perfectly summed up the exceptionalness of this country for almost two months, a situation as exceptional as unpublished. Never before, in the history of this country, in the 40 years of Galicia's autonomy, a president had marched in the midst of the legislation leaving an interim government, without impulse, paralyzed for months now, more concerned and occupied with the internal problems of the People's Party and the party's own succession than of the problems that thousands of people, thousands of Greeks and Greeks live every day in our country. A government cannot act immediately to respond to the consequences of the country's biggest price crisis in forty years, 10.5% of inflation, seven tenths above the state average. A government, as we see again in this morning's control session, dedicated twenty-four hours and seven days of the week to which it best is given and what it likes most, and in that experience they have enough, which is to find out who to blame it all. If it is not the Bipartite — this ghost, a government that has not ruled this country for 13 years — it is Portugal, but the Banco de España, but Catalonia, but Bildu, but Zapatero, Pedro Sánchez, he chachachachaá and, of course, from the last elections to the Parliament of Galicia, the fault of everything, the new Yoko Ono, which is the Nationalist Block Galego. A government that announces, announces, announces, but doesn't meet. And yesterday we were just talking about a good example of this, and to show a button, like those harbour fringes that would be free for at least two months. A month already goes there, and they haven't yet entered into force. And some would think that when I do it there won't be many ships anymore because they would drown before the crisis than to pay those exemptions. A government with the autopilot. We said it yesterday, too, without new ideas, pure routine, installed in comfort and self-comprehensibility, in the midst of such a brutal price escalation and unbridled inflation. In the BNG we are clear that in that context what we need is the Galicians and the Greeks, what we need the people we live and work in this country, are politics, firstly, that they respond immediately to what is the most urgent, which is to rescue the workers, the workers, the social majority, the small and medium-sized enterprises in this country, relieving them of the economic difficulties that many companies, many homes in this country, are experiencing. And so we moved it in successive initiatives, in the committees, in this plenary or also in documents that approached Galician Union itself, such as what sent the national spokesperson for the BNG. It contains a shock plan, a set, a battery of measures to deal with that crisis, to help people who need it most, those who have less resources, the most vulnerable people. A plan of measures with initiatives and proposals aimed at sustaining the productive fabric, employment and, above all, combating inequalities, which were already many and very serious before the crisis, before the pandemic, and much more now they are with this inflation in the clouds. But we also believe from the BNG that urgent can't and must not cause us to lose the perspective and horizon of the important one. Now that the PP plays the retreat, fired by, in addition, well-sentified this morning, it's not too much of a balance of the legacy that leaves who is already past in the history of this country. What balance do we get from those 13 years of Feijóo government in Galicia? We have limited time, so I'll synthesize or exemplify it in four facts, in four realities. The first — and I also congratulate you so that soon you don't say it, you have to give wheat too — is that I have to recognize them a merit, because it must not have been easy, that in 13 years of government and for the first time also in the history of the autonomy of this country there is a government that in 13 years and four absolute majority had not achieved a single new competition for this country. That's a balance as embarrassing as bad for the interests of the Galicians and the Greeks. Because besides not getting a single new competition, not a single one, there wasn't a single government, not one in forty years of autonomy with that balance. [[Applause]] But it's just that, in addition to not achieving a single new competition, he was unable to prevent the successive governments of the Spanish State from getting tired of passing over those that we have transferred or recognized in the Autonomy Statute. Zero skills, fewer people working. Because lying has no limits on this camera. In the morning we heard that there were more busy people, more people affiliated with Social Security. And I refer to EPA's data, official sources, contrastable and contrastable, which tell us that today there are sixty-five thousand people employed less in Galicia than in 2009. Oh, God, he's got the unemployment figures down like that! And we have three thousand five hundred memberships less social security than when the People's Party arrived again at Galician Union. Fewer people working and, in general, less people living in our country. A bundle, in addition, of unfulfilled promises, which we will symbolize in one case, rather burdo and emblematic, that I hope I have better fortune at that announcement from Others than this one that I'm not going to quote them. Do you remember when the Government of the United States and Alberto Núñez Feijóo cut off the television broadcasts of Galicia to announce that contract that was going to solve all the industrial problems of this country, signed with that Mexican oil tanker called Pemex, who announced us more than twenty ships and what was going to be the gold and moro of the jobs in Galicia? What's left of that? Television's live broadcast in Galicia will be cut for that contract's signature. What's left? Two fleets, two, quite controversial, the breakdown of a yard as emblematic as Barreras, and, yes, their contact in the Pemex oil tank, Mr. Lozolla, incorrupted and investigated by a case of corruption, which has a well extended shadow beyond the Atlantic. In addition, they deserve to be the Government that gave the greatest attack on the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks that took place in democracy. And you have to have courage and chest also to say after what has been done to defend the interests of this country. They therefore leave a smaller country overwhelmed by their policies. A situation we've been trying to get back to since BNG. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this initiative that we bring today from the Nationalist Block Galego — if I may, to describe it synthetically — seeks to be an allegation against resignation. A broad, cross-sectional proposal in favour of Galicia and, above all, in favour of the Galicians and the Greeks; today's proposals, which we live and work here today, but also those which must come tomorrow. A proposal with which we seek to lay the foundations of a plan of transformation and modernization of this country, with ambition and confidence in which we can give as Greeks and as Greeks, with an objective, which is to open a horizon of hope and of the future at a moment like the present of great changes, of great global transformations, by putting resources on Galicia's potential and talent, which is very and very good, and in the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. How? With two fundamental elements: place energy and knowledge as the country's engine. How? We were asked in the morning: what is BNG's proposal for this energy transition and the necessary decarbonization? In fact, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and promoting renewable energies. Yes, in an orderly manner, with all guarantees, through a map of management of renewable energies — fundamentally wind and photovoltaic — consensual and planned, always on criteria of sustainability and return of wealth generated in this country to the country itself. Through the promotion of local communities and the deployment of a green tax system that also boosts energy efficiency. [[Applause]] Energy — I said — but also knowledge. We've been talking about this since the BNG in this House yesterday. Research, development, innovation must be a panic and engine of social, economic and human development for the country as a whole. We will not tire of repeating it: we need a stable investment to put our country on line with the European horizon of 2.5 % of GDP in the field of knowledge, science and research; the creation of Innogal as a program of retention, attraction and return of talent; and a plan to promote technological and industrial activity that enables us to generate added value in our country, to close productive cycles to extract greater wealth from the production of raw materials that we have in Galicia in those sectors that are tractors of the economy, which are traditional, classic, but also those that are emerging and that have and open huge possibilities for development in our country. In short — and with this ending — in the BNG, what we have clear is that Galicia and that Galicians and the Greeks can't afford the immobilism that represents the People's Party, that brake of hand that extends not only in the last two months but in the last thirteen years. This country deserves a lot more than seeing how we're getting small, how we're going to close down, and it's time to start building that country right now. That's the proposal we make to them from BNG: confidence in ability, talent, knowledge, the possibilities that offer everything the people of Greece can give of themselves. And what we're trying to do is to have that trust and that Galician transformation and modernization project done with the hands of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, also with the other political forces. For now, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Rodil, in your non-law proposition you literally say that in the transformation and modernization of Galicia there are two factors with a strategic function because of their ability to impact in all areas, and they talk about energy and the financial system. However, the latter, the financial system, only envisages one measure: the creation of a Greek Institute of Credit, when, from our point of view, it seems more reasonable to be much more operational to redefine the functioning of the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion. And they also incorporated in their initiative two others who don't mention: industrial technology policy and the field of research and science. But the truth is, before the impact of the pandemic produced by the coward-19, the world was already going through a certainly unstable environment where some of the paradigms that were fueled by the expansion of globalization began to be questioned. The increase in inequality within most Western countries — including Galicia, where we have a quarter of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion —, the cuts in the states of European well-being, the industrial crisis, the problems of international trade, or even the widespread financial volatility, among other factors, began to generalize the impression that our societies were not moving in the direction that could provide stability and sustained progress to what we were used to. And in order to correct this situation in Galicia, which I have just mentioned, and in order to achieve modernization it is necessary to leave behind conservative policies and cuts and to bet on an economic model which, together with the traditional sectors of our economy — I stress the importance of these traditional sectors: agriculture, livestock, the forest sector, fisheries and the sea-industry sector — also incorporate innovative activities. And in that sense, we agree with technology-based activities and companies, scientific parks, etc. But the fact is that the policies carried out by the successive governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo are not able to give a boost to this innovative modernization and dynamism for the Greek economy. The bet on innovation is a matter of present and future, and it's fundamental to increasing the competitiveness of our companies. Galicia has potential in both areas where recovery funds will be concentrated: the ecological transition and the digital transition — but you have also referred to —. And Galicia has to do its own objectives of sustainability of the European Green Pact because they help develop our potential. Galicia not only has the capacity to produce clean energy, it has the technological capacity to position itself in a sector of enormous growth in the next few years, such as wind, offshore or marine wind in a respectful manner — I insist very much on this — with other marine activities. Mrs. Rodil, I would like you to explain to me how it is possible within a coherence that you ask Galicia to declare sea wind-free territory — as they did on 4 March — and at the same time make a bet to revitalize those sectors and take advantage of that impulse. Because it is an area, Mrs Rodil, which can, in addition, revitalize the German steel sector and enhance our naval sector in the regions of Ferrolterra or Vigo; or in the production of green hydrogen, given the natural conditions of our country. [[Applause]] But if we want to succeed in that ecological transition, the set of citizenship must be part of its benefits. And that's why commitment to climate change must be accompanied by fair transition policies, those which so much question the People's Party, regardless of whether the origin of certain closures has a business motive and directly benefits the most affected Greek regions by the change of the production model. And our party, the Socialist Party of Galicia, has demonstrated the initiative and interest in these matters in the areas affected by the passiveness of the Government of Galicia. We have a duty to support the citizenship affected by the new projects that protect the social and economic fabric. And in that sense, of course — as you said and I told the President of Galicia, the Government of Galicia, at the control session, we celebrated the announcement of the installation of this new textile factory in the province of Lugo, in particular in Palais de Rey. But the fact is, when that announcement was taken away, Mr.Núñez Feijóo's government — the successive governments after thirteen years — did not leave an industrial policy or research, development and innovation, because the current picture cannot be more devastating. We have a dismantling of several productive activities, we have fled from companies to the north of Portugal, we have unemployment and investment in R & D+I at one of the worst levels in the European Union and, worse still, far from the state average. The lack of a country's own economic policy has led to a situation of progressive maturation of industry, business and innovation in Galicia. The fact that it results directly from the bad organization of economic management, beginning — as I said before — by the organization of the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion and of entities promoting the management of R & D+I such as Again or Amtega. In the Socialist Party of Galicia we are aware that innovation is a fundamental part of our model of growth and competitiveness for the Greek economy, and we need a clear and ambitious approach in that area, as a new Greek plan of R+D+I. And this new plan must have the following fundamental lines of work from the point of view of the Party of Socialists of Galicia: Firstly, we must reform the governance of industrial policy by promoting the revision of a clearly fragmented administrative structure in industrial matters, which is therefore necessarily ineffective. We must be able to recover social dialogue and propose an industrial policy that is consistent with social agents, making social dialogue a political commitment to society and a tool for agreement, and legitimizing proposals for our country. For example, our party has just announced a pact for a sustainable wind energy for Galicia with agreements with trade unions and various organizations, and which, in addition, — and this is extremely important — has called for the approval of the business sector of the Galician Wind Association. Frankly, Mrs Rodil, we believe that this is the way: to announce concrete measures, and not macroplans, ideology — let us say — without any concrete support. And what we have to do is make proposals to our country. [[Applause]] It is necessary to improve the competitiveness of key productive sectors by supporting logistics and process design improvements towards a better formed, organized and managed industry, which is wagered by the necessary hybridization with the university and technology centres. We need to rebuild the policy of entrepreneurship, clearly distinguishing the policy of entrepreneurship from the enterprise creation policy, to focus on those initiatives that are most intensive in knowledge and at the greatest risk associated, promoting the coordination of the networks of farmers, business incubators, project accelerators, etc., with the different public instructions that operate throughout our entire autonomous community. We need to encourage the transition to decarbonisation and dismantling of industrial plants and to bet on new projects, by new industrialists linked to renewable energies, by supporting the redesign of eco-efficient processes aimed at minimizing — and I think that no one will disagree — the consumption of resources in relation to raw materials, water, packaging, packaging, etc., and emissions, through the use of renewable energy sources and the implementation of best available techniques, and always giving priority to business and technological R & D+I activities. We need to improve Galicia's attractiveness to recover localized activities and stimulate the incorporation of new manufacturing activities through a clear and well-coordinated policy of internationalization and attracting companies and productive activities currently developed outside Galicia. And for that we must thoroughly review our external advocacy action. The new knowledge for industry through the development of new industrial activities linked to new knowledge requires the formation of an enabling environment or, if you want, the only system for such activities, and support for technological modernization with the incorporation of the manufacturing industry in Galicia, the advanced generation of Industry 4.0. As you just said, indeed, we have a lamentable industrial production index. An industrial production index that dropped 6.8 points in Galicia, while in Spain it rose by 3.3; that is, ten points of difference compared to the state average. And for that, Mrs. Rodil, that's the reality that we have to change. That is why our proposals are the very brief ones I have just exposed within the short time that everyone — I too — has to make a parliamentary intervention. That's why, Mrs. Rodil, regardless of whether there are any of the aspects that you propose in your proposed law in which we agree, our sense of vote will be abstention, because we believe that this plan that you have just presented does not answer beyond difficult generalities, but without concretion at all, to solve the problem of the deindustrialization of our autonomous community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u71	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u72	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Rodil, the truth is, for the short time you've devoted to intervention, just two minutes, the reality is that you're not interested in economics or industry or innovation. I recommend that if you want to know, strengthen your knowledge, which I think you need, start doing some practice in some company to see the reality that you're living. If we talk about times spent in this Chamber, for example, we could talk about the time you spent here your boss, the national spokesperson for the BNG, ten minutes in this whole. Who respects the will of the Greeks and the Greeks here? What's he working on? Is he doing government? Mrs. Rodil, the reality is that today you have brought to this plenary a non-law proposition that says it would structurally transform the Greek economy. And to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, they use the receptacle of their most outdated catechism, which goes by nationalizing companies, by creating new tariffs that already exist, and which seem to be unknown, or even, lordship, that do not know the reality of the Greek economy. And, Mrs. Rodil, for politics, bad politics as you do, there's no need to speak ill of Galicia. The reality is that Spain is experiencing a very complicated situation. We agree with you that it is a very complex economic situation and that there have already been signs of slowdown since 2019, when the Spanish economy grew only 2.1%, two tenths less than 2018. Then came the crisis of cowardice, and the Spanish economy was the worst of those who behaved from all over Europe. In 2021 European economies were rebounding with a GDP increase of 5.3%, but Spain was still much lower. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, it began a escalation of inflation, which worsened in 2022 before the invasion of Ukraine, with an increase in annual inflation of 7.6%, and alarmingly already in March, with an annual increase of 9.8%. And what happens in Galicia? Well, the reality is, Mrs. Rodil, we're much better than the whole of Spain. Between 2015 and 2019 we recorded an annual GDP growth of 2.9 % and created 97,200 jobs. The data of the year 2021 confirm that as in 2020 the Greek economy had a better behaviour than the Spanish average. Over the past two years, the Greek economy has had a positive difference in GDP by two points. The Greek economy also presents better data in many other indicators, such as employment. The unemployment rate is at 11.01 points, the lowest in a fourth quarter of the last thirteen years, and it continues also, Mrs. Rodil, being less than in the state, 13.3%. In the wake of internationalization—the president of the Galician Union spoke this morning—we are leaders in sales abroad. We reached the €25,000 million in the year 2021, which means, ladies and gentlemen, a new historical record. This is the data, the real data. Mrs. Rodil, although you haven't talked about the initiative for a minute, you've only focused on energy. You presented an initiative with five areas, which I will answer about them. In the energy field, Mrs. Rodil, no matter how much she brings it, we don't buy her proposal for a Welsh tariff, but because it's ruinous to Galicia, because she would pay 100 million euros to all Welsh people, because we're not self-sufficient energetically as you say falsely, nor can we live with energy only produced in Galicia, nor are we able to pay the energy distribution costs in Galicia, Mrs. Rodil. And what will remain in the existence of the BNG and the Socialist Party is the action of a government that not only violated your pact, that famous Covenant of Ana and Adriana studying the Greek tariff, because it was a proposal they carried out in that covenant. In your existence, not all of you will be left with the hug that is happening to all citizens, to all consumers after a year of rising prices of unsustainable electricity. That'll stay in your place. Mrs. Rodil, we don't accept your proposal to nationalize companies either. We want Galicia to grow with public-private collaboration. And we're opening companies and not closing them. As for renewable energy, you talked here about a map of wind power management in Galicia. But it's just that, Mrs. Rodil, there's already been a sectoral wind plan in Galicia for many years and it says where it will be -- it says -- listen, if you want to learn a little -- where yes and no wind can be installed. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And you know what you're doing? Co-governing with a party that violates Galicia's Sectoral Wind Plan, which wants to install wind turbines where they cannot be installed. You have to do what you have to do is respect for the Italian sectoral wind plan. That's what to do, not create a new plan. [[Applause]] If you want to collaborate with a deployment of renewable energy in Galicia, what you can't do with any initiative in Galicia is make a sign. Any wind farm you want to install here, you make a sign. And that's not to collaborate with the development of renewable energy in Galicia. And then you also propose that everything be public, as if public it be synonymous with gift or cheaper. They aim for public marketers when they have two examples in Spain: one in Barcelona, Mrs. Colau, with a public energy marketer who collects more expensive light than the other merchants, or another in the Town Hall of Cadiz. From the energy field, Mrs. Rodil, we could talk about ten minutes, and I wouldn't have enough time to beat you all of your-- well, I would say a word you can't say-- all of your proposals, which, in addition to being unapplicable, many of them are illegal. In the financial field, the Galician Union has been and will always be supporting access to and financing the Greek production fabric. And, in fact, funding is presented as one of the most important eids in the budgets of the year 2022, to which EUR 120 million is earmarked in order to mobilise EUR 300 million in companies. You are always with the mantra of the Igape, but the reality is that we have a Galego Institute of Economic Promotion that was able to respond with amazing agility in everything about the invasion of Ukraine. There's the DOG and the orders recently published in April. With regard to technological and industrial policy, Mrs Rodil, which is a pity to them, Galicia has an industry of which we must be proud, despite the difficulties of recent times, such as a pandemic, an invasion of Russia in Ukraine and, above all, the inability of the current government to dialogue and manage in favour of Galicia's competitiveness. Galicia has no industrial problem, Galicia has an energy problem, generated by the Socialist Party in Madrid. That's the problem Galicia has, it doesn't have an industrial problem, Mrs. Rodil. And there's the closure of companies -- the thermals, Alcoa, the marine industries in the coastal zone -- that's your existence, Mrs. Rodil, and there you will stay with the Socialist Government, instead of opening up industries in Galicia, closing them. [[Applause]] Despite everything, Mrs Rodil, we are leaders in automotive, naval, textile, aeronautics, food industry, forest, biotechnology, energy sector. And this, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the momentum, commitment and strength of hundreds of thousands of industries, businesses and self-employed people who are striving every day for activity and jobs in an adverse economic scenario, where the central government refuses to lower taxes despite an inflation of 9.8%. I insist, ladies and gentlemen: the closure of Meirama, the closure of the Bridges, the closure of Alcoa-La Coruña, the closure of Alcoa-San Cibrao, and we'll see what happens to Ence. That, Mrs. Rodil and Mr. Álvarez, is your industrial balance regarding Galicia. Look: of course, the Galician Union is pushing for a transformational industrial policy that makes it easy for the Italian productive fabric to face with guarantees the transition to a digital and greener economy. So this year we approve the highest budgets in our history: 11,600 million euros, with a battery of tax reductions, measures and programs that are being developed from the Galician Union to accelerate digitization, promote a sustainable energy model, boost innovation and talent, boost the circular economy and complete the value chains of the productive fabric, in addition to continuing with the drive to internationalization. We have created an enabling regulatory framework with the Law on Administrative Simplification for the Economic Reactivation of Galicia, and Galicia itself, Mrs Rodil, has a portfolio of important projects that we design from the hands of economic and social agents and industrial sectors to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the European Funds Next Generation. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, most of the EUR 30 billion that the Central Government is talking about are only ads and the basis and criteria are not known to advance in the elaboration of our public-private candidacy to promote new projects. I would like to highlight here, Mr Álvarez, the ease that your government has, specifically Minister Teresa Ribera, has to visit communities where you, socialist communities, govern to announce the implementation of industrial projects through Next Generation funds. Here are the recent announcements from the battery factory for Extremeura. When your boss visits Galicia, he doesn't make those announcements, Mr. Álvarez. I recommend you talk to them and when Galicia comes to announce industrial projects for this community as well. In the field of research and science, yesterday it became very clear... yes, Mrs. Rodil, the second vice president here made a balance of the previous RIS3 and the new proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you don't care. You're talking about 2.5 times 3, you don't care what numbers you give. Look, this government's commitment is to get to 2% of GDP, that's reality, Mrs Rodil. And for that, all the changes are being made in our economy and in our industrial policy of the Galician Union so that it can be achieved. What you don't seem to know is the reality of innovation that is taking place in Galicia and in the companies themselves in Galicia. I recommend you leave the sign a little bit and visit some companies to get to know the innovation that is being done in our community. And finally, we're talking about digital skills and the digital transformation of society, of administration and of the Greek economy, all the initiatives they're putting in place, Mrs. Rodil. I want to answer you with this already in the sense of the People's Party's vote, and we cannot accept this initiative because all of your proposals that you propose here are either inapplicable or are already being made. And the same thing happens in the digital field. The concrete performances related to training and digital skills are embedded in the axis II of the Galicia Digital Strategy 2030,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u74	...that I should know; the same as everything related to artificial intelligence and cybersecurity. Here, Mr. Álvarez, I also ask you for your help because this group recently presented a non-law proposal for the installation of the Artificial Intelligence Agency in Galicia. See if you or Mr. Knight can mediate so that you can be announced by the Central Government to Galicia; at least an ad. It's up to you to install companies, because they hear: at least some, because the green hydrogen factory doesn't know where it will fall, because the batteries are going to Extremadura or to Valencia. Well, man, at least that of artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u76	So, Mrs. Rodil, this group has no choice but to vote for it, not because its recipes are out of date, most of them are unapplicable, illegal, and those that propose the most are already being realized...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u78	...and this group will vote against its initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u80	Thank you, President. To go in order. I am to Mr. Álvarez, who also knows that I appreciate him very much, we are delighted that they bring their initiatives and discuss their initiatives and whether they are more specific or more specific than today's BNG debate. We — I think I have said it clearly, and I also greet the people who are following us from the guest board — the objective of which we bring this initiative from the BNG, this plan of transformation and modernization of the Greek economy, is to collectively ask us all the political forces and the whole of society in this country where we are going. To where we are going at a time of great transformations, of great changes, many accelerated by the pandemic itself, although they were already there, like the energy transition, the fight against climate change or getting a more just, more feminist, more equitable society for all. That's the question we want to ask from BNG. Indeed, the answer is complex, the answer is not easy, it is not easy to implement a parliamentary initiative. But this is not the end of a debate; this is the beginning of a debate that we believe is necessary. I, in relation to the intervention of the spokesperson for the People's Party, said in my first intervention that the PP is with the automatic pilot installed in the routine, pulls the argumentary and is that already the three-quarters of the answer it gave me, Mrs. Novoa, with all due respect, is that it tells me about things that are not even on the initiative, either on the resolution or in its explanatory statement. So, I think you yourself are the example of how you go with your ears on: whatever you say, whatever you say, whatever you debate, what you're going around, what you're going through, what you're going through, what you're going through, what you're going through and what you're going forward to. And I believe that what an advanced and democratic country like Galicia deserves is quiet, deep and reflective debates, because the moment I think it deserves enough. You were talking about energy, which is a good example of how they go -- anyway -- but I have to tell you that I told a truth like a temple, and Caesar what is Caesar's. He said a truth as big as the facade of Santiago's cathedral, and it was that Galicia had a wind map for many years, as long as twenty. They go with the pilot like that, and they don't care what happens, they don't care what progress has been made in protecting the natural heritage, biodiversity, profound transformation and environmental consciousness that the Galician society has today, and especially the younger generations that are listening to us today too. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández makes a wave with her hands.]] You come here, pinion made, with a wind map of the year 1997 -- the latest version of the year 2002; I insist, twenty years -- as if nothing happened in this country. [[Applause]] And that, yes, also makes us very clear - you said - one of the reasons why this country has not moved forward in expanding the Natura Network, which is to allow this predation of the territory and that there are no more spaces for environmental conservation of heritage and biodiversity in this country. The block proposal is very specific -- I said it in my first intervention -- we are because of decarbonization, the energy transition, by reducing the dependence on fossil fuels, by moving forward in creating more renewable energy, but we also have to say that in this country we are already producing waste energy, that is on the one hand, and that we are producing more electricity from renewable sources than the targets that mark the European Union itself. I'm going to quote -- look, so that they don't consider us sectarian -- the vice president of the board, who repeats here many times: Galicia produces more renewable energy, from renewable sources, than Belgium. That's the way it is. But I'm going to give them a given -- and we think collectively -- of all the wind energy that is produced in Galicia, how much remains for the landowners? Between 1,1 % and 2,4 % of the profits and wealth generated by these wind farms. Adding everything, all taxes, how much of the wealth that generates an wind farm returns to Galicia -- and is this data from this country's Wind Observatory? Not even 5%. Is that fair, is it democratic? Is that a sustainable model? And sustainability is not only in nature and the environment, it is also in society, in the ability to take advantage of the wealth that we generate with our work, in the collective development of this country. That's the debate the Block wants to give: how do we change to a model that is more socially, environmentally, and that reverses wealth in the development of the country itself? [[Applause]] And finally, to finish, I mean something we said at the beginning. This is an argument against resignation, and you were in your intervention the perfect example of conformism: this country all the more that can give is this. So, here comes the Block saying some things... its intervention, that of the People's Party, is the first one that does not believe in the capacity, the potential of this country, of being better, of being more fair, of being more sustainable and of generating more opportunities for the whole of society, of the people we live and work today in this country, younger or older, and also of the generations that will come after. [[Applause]] I insist, this is just the beginning, really, of a necessary, deep debate, that we will bring from BNG, in multiple ways; it is not the end of nothing. Because I believe that at the moment we find ourselves -- we believe it like this from the BNG -- of great transformations, of great changes, of great challenges, but also with the ability, knowledge and trust in everything that this country can give us, we really believe that we can build a better future for those we are and, above all, for those who will come behind us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. We greet the room students of the ESO of the IES Our Lady of Great Eyes, of Lugo, and also their teachers, who accompany us here today in Parliament. Welcome to Parliament. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the conduct of an external audit on contracts negotiated without advertising carried out by the Emergency Health Council with the company International Hospital Projects, S.A.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u82	A self-amendment was introduced by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u83	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning. In February, the media released the information that the Community of Madrid had assisted them during the pandemic, by the coward-19, contracts without advertising, by the way of emergency, to companies linked to the president of Madrid's own community; contracts for which his brother would have charged commissions - recognised by the community itself - EUR 286,000 in commissions. This was followed by the scandal of the Madrid Council's emergency contracts, a contract of around EUR 12 million, of which six were in commissions, in bites, and again the family - in this case the mayor, also the People's Party - by means of: charged with crimes of aggravated scam, counterfeiting in commercial documents and money laundering, precisely through these contracts by means of emergency. And in this context, we learned that the area of action of these companies, linked to the families of members of the People's Party, in this case the president of the Madrid community, also arrived at Galicia, and that at this very time when these contracts were laid down in Madrid, the Health Council also awarded him contracts without publicity, by means of emergency, to a company linked to the President of the Community of Madrid and his family, Prhoinsa, which is the acronym for International Hospital Projects. The Board assisted in the full pandemic - April 2022 - by means of a negotiated process without advertising, a contract of EUR 290,000 -265 -, to this company, Prhoinsa, of which it is sole administrator Juan Carlos Herrero Casasola, who is, at the same time, co-founder of another company, Sismédica S.L., mercantil, of which the President of the Madrid Community manifests to have 50% in his statement of assets, which are contained in the Madrid Assembly. Besides, your brother, who has charged the fees for this contract with the 263,000 euro community, is also the sole administrator, and other family members -- the mother, sister-in-law and so on -- have business relations with different types of companies related to each other as well. Obviously, I think there's no longer any need to open the media to see that this whole thing makes alarms jump, and it makes BNG alarms jump by similar operating modes. It makes the alarms jump because those involved, who are charged, investigated for the crimes I said, scam and so on, because they said and declared yesterday or earlier that it's a clean operation, that "it's normal." And of course the alarms are skipped. They say it's normal in this world. One of them says it's a raw materials broker, and the raw materials brokers do these things, to find contacts to get addictions and these scandalous bites, but that the blame is for such a San Chin Choon, a Malay, who says they had to charge these amounts. Well, if it wasn't for the gravity of the matter, it's for... well, finally... This is the situation. I'm just retransmitting what the media say. And we're back to Galicia, because the Health Council hires such companies, and they skip the alarms, because the Galician Union has helped, through the same emergency route, i.e., from March 14, 2020 to December 31, at least 96 million euros, by this same system of we don't know how, without any publicity and no clarification. And it is not that this figure has just taken away the BNG from either side; it has not just been removed by the BNG from the manga, but the special monitoring report for contracts processed by emergency proceedings between March 14 and December 31, 2020, prepared by the Independent Contract Regulation and Supervision Office, which is registered with the Ministry of Business, i.e. a dependent body and such... - says that at that time what they were able to compute - because, among other things, the Galician Joint Contract Portal has no filters and has a series of deficiencies and lack of transparency that does not allow questions to be put out of these filters - one to one contract, it is 96 million euros only in 2020. Of course, these figures make the alarms, of course, jump, because I say this emergency contract was made without justification, without argument, without publication and without any guarantee of how they were inspected. And that makes the alarms jump, because while, in the middle of the pandemic, in full confinement, there were billions of people, thousands of people hospitalized, thousands of people dying, families unable to say goodbye to their dead, health professionals without the means to protect themselves, without the means to protect themselves, giving them everything. Well, in this context, while all this was happening, others were making the tragedy of the business tragedy, and alarming to see that the pandemic was for most, but the business, for a few. At this point, it is a finding that emergency contracts were a perfect ecosystem for it to proliferate all kinds of whipping, used to make use of public money for its own benefit; an advantage which is only possible because this billing is used to being very close to power, to having direct access to power and political leaders, and, unfortunately, to the people's Party has a lot of experience in these facilitators. In view of this, how did the People's Party act?, first, in the marriage question, when 700 people died a day, were able to hire the sister and receive 276,000 euros? Well, in the face of that question, what the People's Party did was to get him out of the way, because the People's Party doesn't care about corruption, nor about investigating it, it just interests you not to know and not to talk about it. Obviously! [[Applause]] Well, this was the first thing the People's Party did. And the second thing is, where we all see scandalous corruption, because it turns out that Nuñez Fexóo, who has already fired here, at parliamentary headquarters, says it's a matter of pillage, because there were lots of pills during the pandemic. Why? Well, because we didn't have any material, and if there's no material, there's intermediaries to get it. Of course, in the BNG we're very concerned about these issues, which are important to them, which are minimized, because the way to fight corruption is not to minimize it, not to say it's a matter of four pills, but to act against it. And, of course, if the BNG doesn't rain on wet water, because we wouldn't worry either, we would say: well, it's a pandemic issue and here we have sufficient evidence that the People's Party is acting properly, that transparency is its milkmotive and that there is no example of using public money to benefit its surroundings. But then we'll say, of course, that's not the context. The context is that the Board of Auditors says in its report - and my colleague Iago Tabares said yesterday - that 60% of Sergas contracts avoid competitive competition, avoid transparency, avoid competition on equal terms for companies. It is a People's Party that denies the Council of Auditors to analyze the contracts of the Government of Greece with the company Eulen, of which the sister of the president -- either morning or last -- of the Board of Auditors is its takeover; a company with which since 2009 the board of Galicia has hired nothing more than 37 million euros. But no, you can't investigate. And a People's Party to which the National Audience has already sentenced him three times as a lucrative participant in the corruption plot crimes by Gürtel; a plot that made a box for the benefit of the PP in exchange for contracts with the administration that assisted the People's Party itself. Of course, in view of this, the BNG considers that there can be absolutely no doubt about transparency in the award of contracts made during the pandemic, that it is necessary to clarify whether there has been a possibility of irregular contracts, similar to those in the Madrid Community - obviously - or in the Madrid Council, also governed by the People's Party, and that there is a need for light and tachygraphs on these actions. That is why we bring this initiative, which is the only thing that demands that it be investigated, clarity. The only one who calls for the initiative that has been presented today by the BNG is an audit on contracts made by this emergency route to the company that has strong commercial links with the President of the Community of Madrid, who is not a single one, which is a high office of the People's Party; that an audit is done to see that nothing has happened, that is perfectly done and that, at the same time, all these contracts are heard by the emergency route that the independent body says that, until 31 December 2020, there were 96 million euros, and that it is simply investigated, that it is clear, that the Greeks and the Galicians have the assurance that with the money of all and that everyone has taken advantage of the pandemic drama to enrich himself, that there were no intermediaries, that there were no achievers, that there was not in the Galiza Union that there was no facilitators for these achievementors and that everything is under control. What we are talking about is simply whether there were commissioners, intermediaries, whether they made a profit and if they were responsible for this happening. It seems more reasonable than a parliament, in front of everything that is happening in administrations governed by the People's Party, in view of the similarity of modus operandi, we ask for transparency, light and tachygraphs, which is what this initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego calls for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, we will be in favour of the initiative; in fact, we would be surprised that we were not always all groups in favour of initiatives that call for transparency in reports. That's what's going on. We believe that transparency is important, especially in Sergas, it's not going to be that some files are flooded and then contracts disappear -- it's strange, but it's not the first time that happens -- That, yes, we believe it is important not to contribute to crossing certain lines, and this is important for us, because we have to recognise — that is, and we do not recognize it, in addition, I believe it is to deceive ourselves — that the pandemic has brought about very difficult situations, brought about situations in which the last concern, in the end, was the administrative, necessary and compulsory issue, but that we needed to solve, and government administrations had to use peculiar mechanisms created ad hoc at that time. There's nothing problematic about it, the problem is -- it's true -- what someone called the pill shop. I, of course, will say that those who took advantage of themselves and the commissioners aren't pills, they're freaks, they're two different terms. It is therefore important to differentiate this issue, and for this matter transparency is very important. [[Applause]] We defend this initiative; it is more, we urge the People's Party, as the group that is going to vote, and the Government, therefore, ultimately, to help this transparency, because helping from governments contributes a lot to that situation. In addition, this government has a committed history on the issue of transparency; and, moreover, it becomes a regular suspect. And, of course, from politics, it is very important that this government should make all the shadows of doubt disappear. We therefore believe it is important that we vote in favour of this initiative... by the way, that we vote and that we comply, because it is neither the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth, nor the tenth, nor the number 20 or 37, 124 or 3,547 of the initiatives that are voted here that are not yet done. That must be parliamentary courtesy. [[Applause]] And we would like to devote a moment to this initiative. This lack of transparency leads to the profound discredit of politics, to absolute disbelief. And we asked the People's Party: aren't you seeing the danger? When you work in this occultism -- not esoteric mystic, but occult concealment -- about the issues of politics, don't you realize the danger of feeding these issues? Because we have a real danger in the political system. Of course, with this kind of practice, with which they do in Madrid - and not because of the employer of the previous leader they had in the National People's Party, but because they tried to raise and expose a case of corruption, they charged a president, because it was not by political matter it was by the Cochamans - do you see the danger of those issues? With Orbán in Hungary, Trump, Le Pen — who is calling at the doors — with Putin or with Castela-León, do you not see the danger? With the occult about transparency and opening the doors to the wolf, don't you see the danger? We have a problem with this and this kind of conduct. If transparency doesn't appear, a deep citizen goat appears, as it is normal, and, fruit of that goat, they take advantage... yes, populists, like those who are today in the Government of Castile-Leon. And don't ask me which of the two parties is more populist. That's the real problem we have. You guys have a problem, and they feed the kid too when they come out here and say: don't come here to make politics... Here -- this gallery -- they don't come to make politics; when during the pandemic they went up here they said that the government had bought bad masks and that this was infecting everyone, while some friends in Madrid -- some crazy pills -- were taking millions of commissions. Don't you see the danger of feeding that kind of policy? [[Applause]] They feed the goat, and then the governments validate the goat. You have a problem with this, gentlemen of the People's Party. That reminds me of the best Greek proverb, which I think says there's a problem with holding a wolf through your ears, which is that you don't know how you can let it go, but you don't have a way of holding it all the time. And this is the problem that you have with the discredit of politics: they're now in a spiral from which they can't get out. That's the problem. We therefore advocate that initiatives like this should be approved by transparency, by honesty; not only by the real honesty of the use of public money, but also by intellectual and personal excellence in the practice of politics for a matter of wisdom. But we defend - it is true - that we have to do so to avoid being in awkward debates, because it does not convince us, we do not like - we have never liked - to enter into awkward debates that end up with very bad issues for groups and for people who do not deserve it. And there's also history. We've suffered some history of accused people, publicly raped, who didn't have to be; and that's why we don't want to contribute to this misunderstanding. We are therefore in favour of using the mechanisms that allow us to be transparent in order to avoid these debates. Because in these debates there is a very clear, very clear question: if there is nothing, it is unacceptable to get involved; and if there is something, it is unacceptable that you want to do as nothing happens. Roosevelt said that the best thing is to do the right thing; not so good is to do the wrong thing; and what you can't do is not do anything. You can't do it like they're not doing anything, and that's what we ask them to do, that they add up to transparency, that up to now they have a pretty bad history. And we said this precisely for that, because we have a deep distrust of politics with such practices if we are not able to act accordingly. There's a problem with this honesty of public money policy. Look, let me use the example -- because it also has to do with this -- to be a liar when one uses public information only to wear off, and it's the use of public money -- we've still been watching this decline in the use of taxes. Look, you're now with this half of Laffer -- that's not a Laffer curve, because any serious economist knows that this is a milong, and even those who aren't so serious also know -- that's about lowering people's taxes and such, that they say it's the solution to everything. You also contribute to disbelief and to what politics seems to be dirty when they do this kind of thing, because what they're proposing with taxes is really simple: we're going to lower taxes very little to those who have little, and we're going to drop them down a lot to those who have a lot. Because it's clearer: to whom does he want to lower the taxes? [[Applause]] To yourself! That's what you're proposing! He made it he wants to lower the taxes himself; and then, to the others, we'll see. If this is the milonga, really! Oh, that's right, when they rule -- and there they contribute to disbelief -- taxes rise like nobody else, they create new taxes, they call millions of euros in commission with friends -- I don't care if they're called Medina, Luceño, Agag, Ayuso, they're all the same freakish crowd. You call them and then they make tax amnesties so that those who called them public money can whiten the money they called after you manage them. And this is what needs to be eliminated. [[Applause]] So if you want to defend — as you always defend — that they are a very clean party — they have the right to defend it and the others to think what they want, I think we must be in favour of this initiative, as others; of all those who have raised questions of transparency and of all those who put into the shooter the issues that are problematic, so that we can all be able to identify those who are problematic and forget those who are not, and who are used to embarrass, because that cannot be, we cannot enter that debate. From our point of view we can't go in, because all we do is discredit each other badly and unfoundedly. So, if there's nothing -- and nobody has to assume that there's something problematic -- if there's nothing, we assume that there will be no problem and we will also help to avoid without any grounds if they can supposedly be based on accusations that ultimately have only an attempt to seek colonization of the media spaces. And we can't validate that either. And since we can't validate it, we have to have the ability to always be transparent to avoid temptation also those who want to use hiding to take advantage of it and to launch it as a daring weapon, and we must overcome it in political practice. So we're going to be in favour of this, also of the issues that work in the transparency that any political party proposes: the political groups here present, the associations that are outside and that demand us, the CIS collectives... any space that needs it and that demands transparency, please, everywhere. Look if we disagree, we're even in favour of transparency on the TVG! Take a look at the thing! So we think it's important. But we make that reflection: to be able to eliminate a very dangerous practice in politics, which is to use and to hinder the field to discredit one another, which only makes the wolf look after the sheep or, worse, to put the great problem of democracy into democracy — because that is the last problem we are creating — to avoid that, we anticipate ourselves all and we can also be able to be able to desist from politics by making false accusations. That's why this is a good initiative where we can vote in favour, and in every other place where we can work, we will be in favour. That's why we invite everyone to vote in favour and we really know that nothing happened, which is what we all want. But if there's some kind of problem, you know, to know that nothing happened, that surely that's what we expect it to be. And we hope we don't have to meet anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u87	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u88	Thank you, President. Let me begin by congratulating the services of the House, because I can clean up with a single whale all the mud that has been poured out right now is worthy of all merit! Because that's what we saw, ladies and gentlemen, at a new episode of mud policy, which is the basis of baseless insinuations trying to convince us that we have to suspect him who does his duty in an exemplary manner. [[Applause]] And as much as these attempts to put an end to the political debate are repeated, we must not get used to this undesirable way of doing politics, nor should we normalize it. The charge can't be any more ridiculous. It summarizes it: "During the greatest health emergency in our recent history, the Health Council has acquired, by means of urgency, health supplies to a company dedicated to the sale of health supplies." Stop the spins! Home!, I think we all know of the difficulties of acquiring health supplies in the toughest phase of the pandemic, and that is why we had to resort — obviously, everyone — to emergency recruitment. And I think we all know that at those times there are always those who take advantage to get cut off; economic cuts, those who blind greed and greed, and political cuts, those who blind the desire for power. I, ladies and gentlemen, come not here to argue; I come to ask respect. I ask for respect for a government that has hired health material from a company that has always sold health material and that has a known home; a company that has been getting close to it for twenty-three years and has hired with all the Greek governments; all without exception, including the Bipartite. Other governments encouraged professional intrusion: "Health grants a firm without employees a contract of 4.2 million. The material provider is a work advisory of Málaga. Ministry of Health." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago reads a document.]] But: "Health paid more than three hundred million to companies with unknown direction." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago reads another document]] But, in case you have any doubts, so they appear reflected in the State Gazette the companies without known tax domicile that made them millionaire adjudications. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago shows you a document to the members of the House.]] I ask for respect for a government that has bought health material in perfect condition: fifty monitors of physiological parameters and six monitoring plants to attend, in half of the health crisis, to Greek patients. Other governments bought another type of material: "The Government signed contracts that had failed to reach EUR 140 million". [[Mr. Pazos Couñago reads a document.]] I ask respect for a government that didn't pay super costs or inflate prices. In fact, the price of the material purchased to this commodity you're talking about was the cheapest -- the cheapest -- of all the material offered by any company, everything you've acquired, the difference from what other governments have made. : "Spain paid thirty-two times as much basic health material as possible in 2020." "The commissions of the covid contracts were of sixty million." "Health paid €62,713 for breathers that cost 10,000." [[Mr. Pazos Couñago reads documents.]] I ask for respect for a government that, in very complicated conditions, enormously complicated!, had to solve the failure of the decision to centralize the purchases of health materials in central government and that put Spain at the global queue of the purchase of health material in full collapse of the international market. I ask for respect, I ask for respect! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] I'm sorry to bother to hear certain things, but I have to remind you that it was the autonomous communities, not only Galicia, that they had to fix that mess, and it's surprising that, after Galicia overcomes this situation with a high note -- I have to say -- they come here asking for explanations for having arranged what was a gross failure of the socialist government. The truth is, it's funny they're asking for explanations today. The BNG gentlemen come here asking for explanations for brothers, and they're the same ones who refuse to ask for explanations for sisters. Because it seems that in the Pontevedra Parliament, it is not reasonable to investigate, despite the fact that there — the difference here — exist, not accused, but firm judgments. [[Murmurs.]] But you don't have to investigate, you have to investigate here, where there's not one single defendant, not one single investigator and not one single reason to explain or question what you're trying to do. Not one! Not one! [[Applause]] But you do not ask for explanations to whom you have committed the thousand irregularities in the contract that I have just detailed; nor do you ask explanations to whom you have suspended the Transparency Portal during the pandemic - the Government of Mr Sánchez -; nor do you ask for explanations to whom you have approved two decrees of the declared illegal alarm state - illegal! - by the Constitutional Court — by course — for limiting the powers of surveillance and scrutiny of the House. If there are any other tools. No one criticized that for you, Mrs. Rumbo. He was criticized for making that decision by limiting the control capacity of the House, which was what brought him to the Constitutional Court, and not anything else. And, of course, they do not ask for explanations to those who have three high government positions charged with health contracts during the pandemic. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago teaches the members of the House a document.]] It turns out they don't ask for explanations because, I say, Rego will be super-preparing a battery of questions and control, right? Well, you don't know one. On the other hand, the BNG asks for explanations to whom if it has provided all the information requested — not today or today — months ago — and takes advantage — yes — to spread suspicions lacking any basis. They seem to be anxious to know certain data. Let me make it easier for you: this company — about which you suspect — has been awarded contracts worth EUR 384,665, less than 4% of the €9,700,000 invested in health equipment during the Galician Roundup. I have a question to explain to them. I don't have this data in my vicinity of the Greek Government. No, it's data collected in the report sent to the Reactivation Commission. I want to read the date of the report: "Report from the Galego Health Service on the recruitment of emergency protection material, services and equipment carried out during the health crisis of the covid-19, delivered to the Entry Register in this Chamber on 11 December 2020" - 2020! - and ask for transparency. Preventive transparency! They had the data before they asked for it. But this doesn't matter to you. In that report, Your Honor, all purchases of material made during the pandemic are detailed and, by the way, they also ask for contracts, which they cannot find, the contracts can find us in the following link. If you want to take note, I will make it easier for you:https://coronavirus.sergas.gal/contents/services-emergency-coronavirus. They're all at the disposal of everyone. I hope they're upset to consult them, and then it would also be good for them to take the trouble to come here and apologize to those who, as always, throw all sorts of accusations on them. The reality of all of this and what we can deduce is that they don't even read the information sent by the councils to this House and, by the way, in view of their own amendment, they don't remember their own proposals, the proposals voted on and adopted in this Parliament. The Council's work plan, ladies and gentlemen, registered on 2 of 10 2020. Recommendation No. 30, of course, the BNG proposal: "The European Parliament recommends that the Board of Auditors draw up a report assessing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on public procurement of services, particularly in the field of health, care and emergency care." You come here asking for a report that has been requested for over a year. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago teaches the members of the House a document.]] Don't you trust the Board of Auditors, or what? It's not worth it. Because if you trust the Board of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, you can't come here to spread those doubts, which they like so much, and lie in wait for a little bit. See if they're a bit conditioned by the honorability of people who've been working around for months in the toughest part of the pandemic to save lives. A little respect for those people! I beg of you! The truth is, they don't care about the truth today, and given the visa, and seeing the attention they paid to the reports, I don't think they were interested in the truth either during the Reactivation Commission. I'm done. You've been looking for 13 years, 13 years, searching for a scandal in the bosom of the German Government that doesn't appear anywhere. I think it's a good day for you to take a conscience and take one of these two decisions: or you recognize that this is a decent government -- you can disagree with it, but it's a decent government -- or you recognize that you are facing the most futile opposition in Galicia's history. Three years looking for a scandal and they couldn't find anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u90	...nothing! I - with this end already, President - have to say that today the President of the Council of Galicia has departed here and that an honest president, an honest government, has been fired from this Parliament, and that the forty-one who sits next to him, we are very proud to work with him all these years. And we'll keep working to take him where all Spaniards want him to be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u91	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u92	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support expressed by the Socialist Party for voting in favour of this initiative, which — I insist — is transparency and information. "Yes, let's go now, Mr. Paz, calm down, calm down!" [[Murmurs.]] In view of the gravity of what's happening — because I don't know if you're watching the media, but there's a social alarm about what's happening — there's a social alarm about that while millions of people were distressed, millions of people were losing their jobs, millions were dying and getting sick, there were those who were getting rich, enriching! face-to-face with that situation. [[Applause]] And, in view of that situation, the People's Party, far from saying: indeed, light and tachographs, which no one thinks that the Galician Union has done nothing about what's happening in Madrid, comes here, takes off the sulphate machine, the fan, and Mr. Pazos spreads shit to the parlor. That's right! [[Murmurs.]] That's what they're doing. Mr Pazos' intervention, what do you reveal? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It reveals that it's a way of doing things and that they're not willing to change it; it's a way where opacity, darkness and lack of transparency is the way the People's Party works. [[Applause]] There's a famous phrase in the film The Godfather, where Corleone says, "It's nothing personal, it's just business." And the People's Party must have seen the film many times The Godfather because it's nothing personal and the Government is just business, it's just business! In 13 years, the People's Party has left public health in the ICU, but the family and the companies around the People's Party are, of course, left with very good economic health. And we're going to something. Did the pandemic originated by the coward-19 make it necessary to acquire materials and services with enormous agility? Yes. Has this situation allowed emergency contracts to be made even verbally and paying in advance? Yes. Does that make sense that things are not done? No, no, no, no. Does that make sense that, today, at the Transparency Portal, at the contract portal, at the Galician Board, and if you put in the emergency contract filter, do zero results appear? He doesn't justify it. Is it fair that you have to go to advertising negotiated contracts and that if you're going to look for one by one, because there's no filter, that's all, sir... It only appears the name of the company and the account of the contract, the name of the company and the account of the contract! [[Mr Prado Cores gives a document to the members of the House.]] And it turns out that here the People's Party said that one of the companies we asked to investigate was the cheapest. [[Applause]] It's because he says it, because if you go to that company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u93	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u94	I'd appreciate it if you cut me... to stop the time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u95	Quiet, please. Mr. Paz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u96	If you go to the contract portal, which is the official, it's not a report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u97	Quiet, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u98	...if you go to the joint contract portal, which is the official portal — I believe, don't you?, I think it's the official portal — only the name of the company and the count appears and, if you open, it only sets resolution, and in resolution what is a blank folio, a blank folio! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you give it to the tenderer relationship, this company only appears. [[Mr Prado Cores gives a document to the members of the House.]] Why do you know it's the cheapest if only one company appears, which has been helped in addition to your finger? [[Applause]] Please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the face of this situation, what they had to recognize is that there is a social alarm and that they have no problem with investigating these contracts, those and the others. And it is not said by the BNG, said the Special Report on the supervision of contracts processed by emergency, of an independent official body, linked to the Ministry of Business, which says that at least in Galicia — that they had to do so by hand, because there is no filter in the Portal de Junta — they assessed between 14 March 2020 and 31 December 2020, 96 million euros by means of emergency — which means the finger — and that today they still have absolutely nothing in the Portal, nothing! [[Mr Prado Cores gives a document to the members of the House.]] [[Applause]] That's what the BNG says here today, and that doesn't reassure the Greeks and the Greeks because they may doubt if it can happen in Galicia the same thing that's happening in the Community of Madrid and in the Town Hall of Madrid. Because, in addition, it was not only at the peaks of the pandemic, but, in December 2020, by this emergency mechanism, it was estimated at nearly EUR 13 million and it helped me not to know how many in July. It wasn't fair at first! And this is a problem, because you have to know how public money was used, and it's a problem even for companies, which are defenseless because they don't know if they could have competed because they didn't know what the list of facilitators was. A government that really wants to assume transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u100	...it's not enough to ask you for respect. Respect must be won! And speaking of the scissors, Mr. Pazos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u101	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u102	...a "baby" says you; you should go to a large surface and bring a real load of "bayettes" to clean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u104	It's over, Mr. President. There is an information note, also from the Ministry of the Fairy — that if you want to make it easier for them — where it is clear that emergency contracts — obviously there was a pandemic — do not justify that soon everything must not be done with light and with tachographs — an official document that I will also make it happen to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u106	So if you have nothing to hide, why refuse to do an audit? It is because, indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is nothing personal; the Government of the United States is just business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago asks for the floor.]] First of all, I warn you were in the debate. What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Pazos' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u108	Under Rule 77 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I am simply - I shall not make any reference - is to make it available to the groups - for what I call the presence of the officer, if I may - the report I referred to during my speech, with a date of entry on 11 December 2020. A year and a half later it's obvious that the groups haven't read it. I'll make it available.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u109	You can do that. This is given to the services of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u110	Nothing else. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u111	We shall proceed to the vote. I'm sorry, before I vote — because if we don't, then, perhaps, give us no time — we're going to say hello to the fifth graders of the Lamas de Abade Center in Santiago, who are visiting us today. [[The Crown]] We welcome them all and the teachers who accompany them. Welcome to Parliament. And now we're going to vote on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u112	We begin by voting for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members, on the request of the Galician Union to the Government of Spain to initiate the process of reviewing the reducing coefficients of workers and workers of the sea and adapting them to the current circumstances of the fleet and of the maritime-fishing, seafood and aquaculture activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u113	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez and Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Council on economic policy in the face of the new macro and micro-economic scenario to bring the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2022-20230 into line with the economic situation generated as a result of the Ukrainian war. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The voting is negative Consequently, the non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u114	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Teresa Egerique. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Corina Porro Martínez and nine other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government for the inclusion in the planning of the Spanish Electric Network for 2021-2026 of Vigo's connection to the high-voltage network and the construction of a new substation in the Balados polygon. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u115	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Patricia Otero. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group — which is a self-amendment, of course — is accepted and the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Voting the new text of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Otero Rodríguez and D. Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, on the actions that must be carried out in Galician Union to allocate 50% of the collection by the tax of hydrocarbons that transfer the state to subsidize gas oil to the companies of the Galician road transport of passengers and goods. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u116	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández. There are no amendments. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and eighteen other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to develop a plan of response to the crisis and of modernization and development of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u117	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u118	Yes, Mrs. Prado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u119	There's a self-amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u120	Yes, I'm sorry, there's a self-amendment of your...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u121	Of course, then what we vote for is the whole...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u122	I'm sorry. Yes, there is a self-amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which, of course, you accepted, which is why you made it. That's why I'm not saying it anymore. [[Laughter]] We vote. Voting the new text of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the conduct of an external audit on contracts negotiated without advertising carried out by the health council with the company International Hospital Projects S.A. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The voting is negative Consequently, the non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u123	The votes of the non-law proposals have been put to an end here. We continue with the agenda, in this case, with the interpelerations. Interpellation of the Mercedes Complaints Zas and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government regarding the dynamization of reading
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u124	To make this inquiry you have the floor to Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u125	Congratulations, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. There seems to have been here, in the previous intervention, a certain problem of reading and reading understood by the People's Party bench, which more than ever justifies the need to bring here this interpellation linked to the book and to reading. Counsellor, you and I have already spoken on other occasions and in other forums about the book, about reading, about literature in Greek, but popular sovereignty wants you to make this inquiry in this House today, as a member of the BNG group, around what you well know are the basic principles of our group, such as Greek culture and, in particular, literary culture. We reaffirmed this last week by agreeing with the Book Day and celebrating it from our group by sharing a new meeting — from which we have regularly been holding — with the Italian book sector since the active audience, because we understand that this direct communication, without intermediaries, makes us aware of the current situation, of the course that is living in the book sector and that is where our proposals are born, both today in this interpellation and in the motion that we will present to you at the next plenary session. Of course, each of the seventy-five Members and Members of this House — you too, Counsellor — have a personal history, a personal biography in relation to books, reading and, in particular, reading and reading in English. If I may, I, as the daughter of a house with a very small library - and from here I want to send a very large greeting to the student who accompanies us and who I am sure that they are from the school libraries and from his school library future great readers and readers -, I have come to discover the literature of Greek thanks to the surprise of a book that was not very visible and that was entitled Memories of a boy farmer, by Xose Neira Vilas. And I also have to say that, in this reading, I discovered that the Greek, the language of my people, could also be written. From that moment on, I stopped being what I thought it was: an alphabetic language that only had life in the waves, in the air, between the conversations of my people, and I discovered that it was, therefore, a language just like the one that, at that time, existed only in school and that it was the one that was written to me, that was the Spanish. That little girl could hardly think that, as time went on, her hands as mature women would already write twenty-five years ago a first book that took the title of The Founders of the Kingdom of Galicia, a happy discovery and encounter with what are the literary pillars of our literature culture, foundational, beyond the end of the 12th century. I have to recognize you here today, in this House, a little thing, Counselor, and it is the pride I felt, especially as a teacher, surrounded, at that moment, by my student, seeing for the first time -- and for now, only once, and I hope not to last -- the Pergamino Vindel in that magnificent exhibition co-organized between the Board of Galicia and the University of Vigo. No doubt, meeting with one of the great foundation treasures of our literature, with the literary bases of the Kingdom of Galicia, is a happy discovery and reunion. But I also have to tell you that I firmly believe that we deserve a solid, self-esteemed and courageous government, that I look for ways to get our literary and also cultural references to stay between us as long as possible and whenever possible, because we are a millennial culture that needs to strengthen our memory. We can't live and we can't build new generations from collective amnesia. Nothing better to talk about books, reading books and Greek literature that grabs us reading Welsh literature, and to me this April 23 specifically caught me in the pages of Berta Dávila's latest novel -- it's also good that books are visually present here in this House -- the loved ones. [[Mr. Queixas Zas shows a book.]] A necessary question — which I highly recommend — about the uncertainties of maternity or maternity. Obviously, we're not going to talk about maternity, Counsellor, but rather about uncertainties and uncertainties about Greek literature right now. On these first pages, the narrator's voice recalls a lecture of a Bulgarian photographer who put on the table, nothing more to begin with his intervention, a bottle of dried glass to the top of stones. He asked the audience if it was full, and the audience said that it was indeed full. So what this speaker did was he took the water jug he had next to him and he was filling that water vessel. Evidently, the water occupied the empty spaces, and then the artist said: Complete satisfaction is one thing you can never be sure of. And I recognize that at that moment I thought about this interpellation. I imagine asking you the questions of the interpellation, which you already know; and I also imagined you, Counselor, setting out here a few kilometres of headlines, endless millionaire figures, deciphered into Excel leaves and conjugated actions of good purposes in the future, in the uncertain future. But that's right, I also imagined it filled with complete satisfaction and no self-criticism, and to previous proofs I return. Of course, they always jump out of sight, and you can't confuse and deceive society all the time. And that's why I've worked out very quickly a decalogue of certainties that are mirroring the situation of the Greek book right now. The first certainty is that the 2022 budget, defined by the People's Party and defended by yourself in the 3rd Committee, of Budgets, at the beginning of the year, as the greatest in history — indeed, today it has been remembered here, EUR 11,600 million — instead of being expansive with investment in policies applied to the development of the book as well as the economic vector and motor of social cohesion, it turns out that it shrinks in about EUR 300,000. Interestingly, a game that takes the significant heading of "Helping the promotion, distribution and marketing of the book of Galicia", disappears from the budgets of the Galician Union. A second certainty says that this year's budgets invest in the promotion of the book around 60% less than in 2009, which was what was managed at that time since the policy of the Nationalist Block of Wales. At the moment, of the total budget set of the Culture Council, 2% was allocated to the book, when 4% was allocated in 2009. The third certainty is about the execution of budgets, of the 2021 budgets, of course. One thing is to budget with purpose, with plan, with plan; and another thing is to budget with budget, because then, if it doesn't run, nothing happens. And here we find that in the budget of the year 2021 77.8% was executed, which is the same as saying that they were not executed in cultural policies in general, particularly for the Greek book, 12 million euros, which were not executed in cultural policy. Fourth of all. The National Institute of Statistics reconfirms the retreat, the regression of the Italian editorial volume. While publishing books, generally in Galicia, has grown, publishing books in Welsh has declined again, decreasing from 45% to 40%. I'm sure. The Report on Reading and Buying Habits in Spain confirms — unfortunately, in our view — that reading continues to grow exponentially, especially since the beginning of confinement and during the pandemic, a very good news. But it's not a good news that we can share from Galicia, which follows in the tenth position; that is, in the sixth place by the queue of the whole autonomous communities of Spain, and going down. And another important fact that we should take into account in connection with this interpellation, Counselor, is that of every 100 books that are bought in Galicia only between 6 and 8 are bought in German. Something's going on. Sixth of all, with respect to libraries. The Galician Library Report of the Galician Council of Culture tells us that up to 46 libraries have been lost since 2010 in Galicia. And the Library Service, dependent on the Galician Board, concerning last year, says there are 100 libraries closed and around 75 municipalities that have no access to any kind of public librarian loan. Employment in libraries has decreased; consequently, the number of loans has decreased. We are in the third place in number of library users, and the Galician society in relation to its interest in libraries, qualifies it as 2.5 over 10. The per capita investment in Galicia in public libraries is below the state average. I'm sure. The budget devoted to investing in the expansion of our literature, for example, through international fairs, remains less than 2009. There's no need to remember that, on the Frankfurt Book Fair this year, Spain is the guest country and we still haven't managed to get the Government to respond to what management it's developing so that the literature and its creators and creators have a dignified representation and at the height of what our literary system represents on this international fair. [[Applause]] Eight I'm sure. There is no translation plan. Translation calls simply respond to a situation of permanent conflict with the sector. Nine sure. The EFTA White Paper, which is already giving us successive reports, confirms the excessive precariousness of the profession: only 5% of writers and writers in Greek can live a hundred percent of their work. And we end up with the decadeg, with the tenth certainty, and it is that maybe all of this has much to do with the impossibility, or inability, or disillusionment, or unwillingness, or -- you will now respond to it in the interpellation -- to be able to adopt a social plan to dynamize transversal reading and that it really bets that reading is an element of social cohesion and training. It's over, then. At this time, the Greek book presents persistent threats, such as the lack of visibility in libraries and sales outlets, the slightest presence in the media — especially all public and also private — or the continuing loss of linguistic competition in English in the new generations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u127	...as it shows irrefutablely of the success of his decree against Greek, or also of his decree in defense of Spanish monolingualism. We asked him, then — and I will finish, Mr President — what strategy do you intend to follow or will the Government of the Union begin in connection with the dynamization of reading in Galicia? When will they really sit with the sector as a whole and in dialogue with society to develop a social plan to dynamize reading in Galicia? When are they going to make the language and the literature of Galicia — which you know is internationally recognized — part of this Galician brand as a substrate for the formation and cohesion of Galician society?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u129	You now have the opportunity to express yourself as an open book, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Complaints. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u131	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Complaints, you've made a narrative of your personal relationship with writing in English and, if I may, I'll do it too. I also have a deep and old relationship with writing in Greek, and I'm going to tell you that more than twenty-five years ago -- that means we're getting older -- fortunately, I defended my doctoral thesis in Greek, being the first or the first doctoral theses to have defended themselves at the USC in Greek. And also my academic publications -- not literary -- let's say scientists -- that are linked to my professional development, because they're all practically in Greek, except those that were obviously thematic, let's say higher, from the perspective of the territorial scale, Galicia. With which, I think we can all pose personal experience as a value. It's interesting that we know him, but I don't think he's contributing us to the debate more than the personal commitment each of us has to the Greek language and the Greek culture. Certainly, Your Honor, support for the Greek book is not an obligation for us, it is a priority, and it is part of our cultural dissemination policies; being very aware that we are talking about a very significant part of the Galician cultural industry. Only a few days ago we celebrated with the sector Book Day, and the truth is we did it with optimism; we did it with shared goals and we did it with a perception that things were done well and that expectations were generally good in the world of culture and in particular in the world of the book. We're going to a certain extent along the right path and we think that there's a very powerful vitality and that, if it's true that it's been through some complicated moments, the pandemic has also had a positive impact on the book world, because many citizens have seen it as a place of refuge in these difficult times. The indicators are there. We are the autonomous community with more libraries per inhabitant of Spain, and Galicia is increasingly publishing more books and more and more talent and diversity of proposal is in our literary market. Obviously, our strategy of promoting reading, of promoting, by extension, of culture has some strategic lines of support for the book sector, but it also has strategic lines in relation to the librarian system, with a fundamental role of libraries and, of course, of course — and tremendously important — of the education sector, we never forget it. You talked about certainty, and I'd like to talk about certainty too. First, I'm surprised at the data you give from the budget execution percentages; I'll ask who's wrong, whether our general secretariat or the data you have. Well, this isn't lying, it's data, it's written on paper. But you're talking about a series of lines that are actually in operation and are doing their job, for example, editing aids. We've been doing this for a long time, with specific contributions to all links in the book sector value chain: authors, illustrators, bookstores, etc. There are annual aids for the acquisition of editorial news, and in the last decade it has invested in this more than five million. There are also aids for publishing and marketing, which were increased during the pandemic, obviously, to strengthen and enable the cultural industries associated with the book world to have an extra fund input. We have 200 million budget this year. Are you dealing with the book? I think it's hardly questionable how much support there is from Galicia's board to book fairs, to the bookstores' sector. Every year we collaborate with them, cooperate on a series of fairs and have a very important value. This year's data just opened up in Ferrol a few days ago tells us that through the book fairs co-organized by the Federation of Bookellers and co-organized with the Galician Board and the municipalities spend about half a million people and that about 70% buy a book. That's a very important data. And it's about the international presence, you talked about Frankfurt. You're much closer to the PSOE than we are. The Block is much closer politically to PSOE than we are. Ask PSOE, in this case, about the Frankfurt fair. I can also tell you that these days you are celebrating the Bos Aires Fair, where Galicia will have a stand, as you've had in Guadalajara or other fairs. And I think the support role in the most difficult moments of the Galician board at the book fairs is there. We were the first autonomous community in Spain where a pandemic fair was held, the Santiago de Compostela Book Fair, which was fundamental, very applauded and very recognized by the whole sector. [[Applause]] We're also talking about the help of translation, of Greek to other languages and of other languages to Greek. This is fundamental to empowering and supporting the spread of our culture. Here too, there's a very powerful investment in recent years, 2 million euros, and they've benefited more than 100 editorial projects. Other very recent events that have had a strong recognition and a remarkable success are, for example, the Good Culture. We'll talk about it in the afternoon. Almost two million euros, which although the recipient was the cultural sector, undoubtedly the bookstores were the most benefited, and helped to sell thousands of books — I will give the data in the afternoon — of books. I support Thursdays, future creators, a prominent role. We're pushing lots of residences, lots of meeting spaces that aim to have points to enhance contact between authors. The actions in the library are fundamental. The libraries provide a basic service to society, and I would say, in this case, that the dependent public libraries of the Unity of Galicia have been developing a fundamental work in the dynamization of culture, by extension, enhancing the world of the book, empowering the creators and the Greek literary. I'm going to give a figure: in the project Read counts a lot, there are about 200,000 euros of budget and it reaches 188 municipalities. Last year, based on this program, we had 722 activities, with more than 20,000 participants to encourage reading habits from libraries. This year we're going to invest in aids to strengthen the Greek librarian system over two million euros. And in Galicia read, for example, in the digital field, there's a catalogue of more than 8,200 titles. There were nearly 120,000 loans to encourage reading, of course. They're books that talk about the dynamism of the Greek libraries. It's true that there are municipalities that don't have libraries, but it's also true that they belong to all political parties, eh!, including those on these benches. [[Mr. Culture, Education and University Counsellor, Rodríguez González, pointed with his hand to the sides of the hemicycle.]] Educational scope. The educational field is fundamental because it is where future readers are being formed. The basis of culture and our education is undoubtedly in the educational field. You — I'm sorry — said something that's not true. You say there's a loss of language skills in Galicia in the area of Greek. We are the autonomous community with a co-official language that best percentage of knowledge of the co-official languages presents. That's what PISA says, and that's what the Ministry says. If the Ministry of Education and PISA lie, you're right. [[Applause]] If PISA, which is an international agency, and the Ministry doesn't lie, you're lying to us. In any case, the school libraries tell us... I'm sorry, before this happens, I mean that the PISA report tells us that in reading competition — perhaps we all need — Galicia is virtually leader in Spain, along with Castela-León and Asturias, far above the OECD average and the Spanish average. We are referents in reading skills. And libraries have a fundamental role. Our school libraries are a reference to the state as a whole. I don't say it, tell him the studies done also in the ministerial field. Look, we're the first in the library field, in percentages of occupation in school. We are the autonomous community that most school libraries have in Spain and we are the first in specific activities of attention to diversity, in specific activities of digital competences, far above all the average in everything that has to do with the reading club, with reading promotion activities, etc. We are a real reference in the field of school libraries, which is where future readers are forced and where reading habits are fostered. We have recently adopted the new LIA Plan, which is going to take one more step in a very important project for education, of course, for culture, of course, but also for the world of the book. It is obvious that support and policies implemented for the dynamisation of reading are always insufficient; it is always an unfinished task, like any other public policy. But what can't be denied is the great progress that has been made in recent years, and in the face of that negative, tremendously negative report -- reading understanding for the evaluation of the data -- that you propose, I can tell you that if you read more now than before, I can tell you that it progressively increases reading in the digital field, I can tell you that the school libraries are referring to all of Spain, and I can tell you that the Greek students have full competence, from the perspective of understanding and reader management. Finally, of course, I believe that we have an interaction and communication capacity with the sector that is tremendously positive and always open and attentive to its ideas. With which, Your Honor, I think you make a frankly pessimistic reading that doesn't correspond to reality, based on the basis that it is always possible, of course, to improve it in the field of book support policy, as fortunately in all public policies, because if not, it really wouldn't make sense what we're all doing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u132	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u133	Counsellor, you are glad that, having the highest budgets in history this year, 2022, the policy of this government dedicated to the dynamization of reading and attention, to empowerment, to the immense capacity developed by the Greek book, which is less than 60% in relation to the year 2009, there is nothing to talk about. You perfectly accept that with the highest budgets in our country's history, the policy dedicated to dynamizing the book and reading in English is 60% less than in 2009. You mean we gave it to him for good? And that we would still congratulate him? [[Applause]] I really think it's irresponsible. That demonstrates total conformity and resignation, for its part, that in the BNG, of course, we're not going to bet, because we want to go much further than we are, especially because we know that we have potential and that there is capacity in the country, which is what's demanding of us. You came here trying to take ten minutes talking about the usual, we're still installed in the same routine; with a total absence of innovation and an absolute inability to put on the table or atril a plan, a project. That's why we say you're already past, because you're always talking about what you're already perfectly experienced. I'm past, there's nothing new for you to come to us here. I really wonder -- and I don't know -- whether we're talking to an advisor who's in a position to leave, or whether he's in an extended position, given how the People's Party is at the moment -- I don't know very well, now I'm much more concerned about what he was -- What I do know, and you have just shown here — thanks to the point, Mr. Rodeiro — is that the policy of the book sector from the perspective of the People's Party is a blank page, absolutely a blank page in 13 years of absolute majority, where you could -- and your team -- put in place all the projects, and the best projects in the world, if they were to observe what's around them and, above all, if they really heard and really talked to the book sector itself. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a failed policy, you have to say that, and it's not good for anyone, for you, for us or for the whole of society. And it's a perfect metaphor that we see as it leaves Galicia smaller and as Galicia goes less culturally as well. It's a public budget reduced by more than 60%, a production in Italian at the bottom that you can't question or deny, Counsellor - and I hope so, but you know that - and a political management from your government team that acts from back to back to the German business sector. And we have a very specific editorial sector, based mainly on micro-enterprises of very few workers, who have to have a very determined management. Get those macromultimotives out of their heads that you just seem to want to work with and take care of the Italian publishing microenterprise fabric. You in these 13 years have completely abandoned creation, completely! They're starting to want to cover up with some residence, which looks very nice, but it doesn't seem at all like the concept of literary residences in Europe. And you also know, it's just a headline and a label. The White Paper of ELGA you know perfectly what it says; I'm sure you've read it, since the different reports we've received are public. There is also the lack of institutional support, first of all, of the Galician Union. It's true that also the Government of the State, but who has the utmost responsibility here is you. That is to say, they ratify the suspension that the Barometer of the Galician Culture Council has succeeded in giving during 2020 and 2021. And to all of this we still have to add new modalities of contempt, because they're running a policy of contempt for the publishing and literary sector, of everything that is the book sector, and it's daring to eliminate that minimum purchase of 25% books in English in the call for help in the purchase of bibliographic funds for the municipalities, for the municipal libraries. They eliminate that requirement and impose -- yes, they have already said that because of the state; it's very nice that there's always someone out of the house who takes the blame -- that you have to buy 50% in Spanish, which can be 100%. Of course, I wonder why in modality A you didn't balance that gap and tried to invest more through that way or other. I'm sure he'll answer me now. The question is, what do you have against the German book sector? What do they have against Welsh literature? What do they have against authors and authors, booksellers, translators, mediators, librarians, readers? What do they have against the Greek literary system? That's the question we would also like you to answer. Deep down, if you don't answer it, we'll end up thinking that you and your team...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u135	...they're a problem with no solution and they're actually denying a training capacity to the Greek society. Why not develop your government the Social Plan for dynamizing reading as the Law of Book and Reading commands you, Counsellor? Please give me that answer because the hemerothecs are full of phalaec headlines...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u136	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u137	...what they're going to do and what they're doing. If he doesn't answer, then the conclusion is very clear: you're past...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u139	...your project is a blank folio and, of course, as a responsibility for the future in the BNG where we will always be with the publishing system and the entire sector of the book.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u140	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u141	In the next full hope that they will rectify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u142	Thank you very much, Mrs. Complaints.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u143	...and that they support the motion that we will bring them, which will be a motion of future and alternative for Greek society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u144	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Complaints, "Talking about the future is talking about the BNG." The truth is, you've been telling yourself for many years that you are the future, but the Greek society either doesn't listen to them or you don't speak well, because they never give it to you. They never gave it to him and they never give it to him. [[Applause]] There's one thing I don't allow you, Mrs. Complaints, with all the personal affection you know I have -- you know -- I cannot allow you to say that from the scope of the Culture Council, from the scope of the Galician Union, we have a contempt for the sector. I would ask him to withdraw it, because to say it is a true fallacy that does not honor you, which I have for a serious honourable Member. We may have more resources or less, we can do things better or worse, we can have correct or disagreed, but you say that we despise the culture sector in general and the book sector in particular, that I can't afford; I can't afford it in any way, nor suppose we have anything against Greek culture or literature. [[Applause]] Look, we have a cross-sectional view of how we should support the book sector and the culture sector. What doesn't match yours? Fortunately for Galicia, fortunately! You only fix yourself in one game, and that game goes down and up. And that's when the speech ended. And he's talking about blank pages. You don't come out of your tremendous, absolutely tremendous speech, and then there's nothing else. He said Galicia is less in culture and we support the multinationals. And he talked about the barometer of the Council of Culture. Today, a few hours ago, the last barometer of the year 2022 was introduced. What does this barometer say — to deny what you say —? It says there's a positive and optimistic view of the sector as a whole in the field of billing, and there's expectation of increasing demand. With regard to employment, there is stability in 70% of the entities, and around 21% is planning to increase their workers. Tell us that most of the Greek culture has recovered or will recover this year's pre-invoicing at the moment I hide. It also tells us that more than a third has never reduced income, even in the worst years. Tell us that expectations, thinking about 2022, this year, are much better than those of the previous year. And he tells us that the Galician Union is the best public entity valued by the professionals of culture, above the municipalities — where you rule many — and above, of course, the state. This is reality, this is reading understanding, the rest is literature. But there's also a lot of science-fiction in literature. And you tell us about science fiction, because really your speech, when you put the data on the table, because it falls. I told you before we're the autonomous community with more libraries per capita in Spain. More and more books are being published in English, more and more are being added to the users of libraries — 11% in recent years —, more and more are being lent in digital and physical books in libraries — more than 1.2 million books have been lent last year —, more and more our creators have awards, national and international, than we are absolutely proud of, and our society is increasingly a reading society, which is demonstrated in the comparative indexes — I said earlier: PISA and Ministry — and at the highest level, that they have language promotion actions in the field of school libraries. Budgets. This year the budget of the Council for Culture increased by 6%. Over the last four years it has increased by 30%. He says there's no plans. We're working, drafting, reading dynamizing plan. It is true that it has stopped, it is true that it has stopped at its own time — basically because it is impossible to hold meetings with the sector — but it is ready, the point of being presented. And we're also working on a map of public libraries. I think it's a tool that's collected in the law and that's also something that we have to consider. In any case, that tremendous speech, of black legend, practically, that you have from the whole country -- here they talk about education or culture and it's all black -- after going to the data, to the indicators, to the comparative reports, is like a sugar falling into a container and completely undoing. And I think that's a serious problem for you and very serious for the country, because you don't recognize the great work civil society does in its different areas and that makes it possible for the indicators we just put on the table to be frankly positive. And, I insist, the Welsh culture barometer just showed up a few hours ago and I put data on it that speaks of good health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u147	...of very good economic health from the perspective of the cultural industry, the cultural company, and of course the publishers within what has to do with the book world. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Complaints, you are very optimistic. You see everything black, except your future. But we're in spring, and in spring it goes from light to dark, from white to black and from sun to rain very quickly. And you, really, are quite optimistic. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u148	Thank you very much. Da Noelia Otero Lago and Noa Susana Díaz Varela, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the coverage of the lower education staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u149	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Otero Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u150	Thank you, President. Good afternoon now, by the hour, to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. It's a shame we're not accompanied by some of the students and students, teachers and teachers, who come from the different centers in Greece, because it would certainly sound familiar to them. There are still about a couple of months left to finish the school course, and the truth is that girls, children, girls and boys are now breathing slowly, at this moment, of this flexibility, of certain flexibility, in the rules and also in the recommendations — for example, in the use of masks in general. But all of us -- those who have public responsibilities, especially -- because we don't get tired and we have to repeat that everything is cautious, because we continue in a course that is still marked by a pandemic, we still follow the consequences and difficulties of a pandemic that has suffered essentially the whole of the student and the teacher. The virus, in any case, continues to circulate in its various variants, and that's why we talk about responsibility or, if you want, of genuine concern — using that motto so prominently played by you. What happens is that in that responsibility, in that small sense, that should mark any kind of decision in the field of education, and in any of the plans of the responsibility of the Greek Government, sometimes it counts the virus and sometimes it doesn't count. This is the best example. And it turns out that I also wanted to start by saying that there are measures and aspects in the educational field that worked reasonably well. Exactly the coverage — until November, that is — of the casualties, the system of calls that have been implemented since the Council, everyone recognises — this parliamentary group too — that it was one of the aspects of education that worked well. By starting with the most elementary, as you know -- not only talking about cowardice but about illness -- all people are sick, teachers are obviously also people. A disease, an accident or a sinister doesn't count, you don't see, what day of the week, you don't say either when or when the disease is going to be — one day, two, three, four, five — or the recovery of a sinister. We didn't find the wheel or the gunpowder. We all get sick and indistinctly on any day of the week. Well, starting from this elemental base, until the end of November this system of daily calls worked, that coverage, as we said, of casualties. It worked in a graceful and reasonable way. The month of December and the unions, the management teams of the centers and also some ANPA warn—and in addition to a very delicate moment, because we care so much about the virus and we have so tender, at a very delicate moment—that suddenly they stop covering the casualties below "x" days. It is a simple thing to check this complaint that they publicize by entering the platform and seeing that there are vacancies in all areas and educational stages. And we were saying when the Council takes this decision to change the system, Counselor. It does so in December, when the contagion curve is increasing, fruit of the October bridge, of the November bridge, in the middle of the December bridge, with the parties and family meetings around the corner, with the arrival of the omicrom, at a time when all the recommendations are stopped calling the daily, covering the lower teachers, because there was no virus in December. In this context of the sixth wave, we remember that the organizational situation in the centers at that time, but also now that the course has not been completed, and the organizational measures — which you know enough — are the same as in September. That non-covery, as it was done, coincided, moreover, with the completion of the Arc Program, despite the fact that the centers were demanding it. And from there come many problems, and serious ones, in educational centers. These weeks, how do you react, in the face of the denunciation of professionals, professionals, trade unions, ANPAs, the Council? First, with something that — let me tell you — is already a constant in his counsellor: with opacity, with silences that are complicit and harmful. But sometimes it's better to keep quiet than to lie, because, when they say it, it's to deny, to discredit, the management teams that are reporting this situation. And it was checked how they started deleting daily casualties applications — one average, on one occasion, of more than 20 requests per day in the centres, on the corresponding platform. By system, in practically all the casualties that were less than ten days, smoke bomb, thereby violating the rights of the centers and the students themselves. And there's the numbers, Counselor. Well, what they denied at that time was found, over the course of the weeks and months, that it was a reality and that it was also the model they set up and that we have right now, and that is why this interpellation today. But it doesn't stay there, not only do they count the days if the drop is less than "x" days, but they also change the calling system. When they were up until November calling practically every day — with that machine, as we said before, fattened — they just call Tuesdays and Fridays. What's going on? That sometimes two or three days have passed and, when they call, it's no longer worth it, according to you. And those themselves responsible for the educational field you've been addressing even from this forum, from this Parliament, to thank the extra efforts added during the pandemic are the same as you're making arrests and all these weeks and these real months boxes of cakes to find the holes, to plan, to attend to the student. These same professionals who fill their mouths by thanking this effort are the ones who are suffering from this situation; in a course, in addition, which has not yet finished — we insist — and in a course in which they are reporting — because it is another of the consequences of the different pandemic crises, in addition to health and economic — the increase in many student centres with specific needs, special needs, students, students, children, boys and girls with even mental health problems. And you make absolutely deaf ears and make decisions like this, to stop calling every day to cover the teachers' casualties. We no longer ask you today, Counsellor, to enter the basic and fair demands and needs, such as the recovery of teaching hours, to walk where there is a need for progressive reduction of ratios — we know that there is a territorial imbalance in areas where it is absolutely necessary. No, but at least we ask them today to rectify, return to a system that worked and that was much more fair. Because, as we said, the diseases, the sinisters, they don't look at the day of the week. No value — I insist — they have the words of recognition to these professionals and to these professionals of public education when they walk with practices like the one we bring to this interpellation today. The pandemic showed that this control of the ratios, the possibility of unfolding, the coverage of the lower teachers, the teacher, had positive results. And it is no good, to finish — today, that we had the farewell of Mr. President of Galicia, Mr. Feijóo — to speak also — and I quote literally — of the success of the educational community. To recognize the success of the educational community, to avoid falling into cynicism, at least, you have to show a little respect and not make practical decisions like the ones you've been taking, such as not covering the lower teachers and leaving the centres as they're leaving. That would be to recognize the success of an educational community that is suffering and to bear behind its decisions as they have taken — I insist — since November. And there's the pandemic, there's the virus, there's its variants. The course, we know, has not finished yet, and unfortunately, there is not one single prognosis that tells us that there will not be a pandemic, that there will be no virus at the beginning of the next one. So when you're interested and you're playing to remove masks in the courtyards, outside the schools, you tell us you're not, that in Galicia we'll be the last because we have a lot of sympathy, because the important thing is health. And us, point to mouth. But when it comes to covering low teachers from the month of December -- we insist, in the middle of the sixth wave and with a curve of contagions like that -- because health matters a little less. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u151	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Otero for calling the sentiño — I believe it is fundamental — to prudence — which I think is something we are saying constantly — and also to acknowledge that the anti-vid measures have worked well. We are obviously faced with a collective success of the educational community as a whole, but I certainly believe that it has left Galicia in a very good place. I, who have many debates on education, see that on many occasions — not least the Socialist Party, but generally the opposition — make a speech about resources. They don't make a speech about what's done with resources, they don't make a speech about what's done with resources. It's a classic, very classic thing, from the supposed cuts — that always exist, and when you go to the data don't agree — to what we're saying today, even when we're talking about an unacceptable assumption of the quality of teaching that you receive — literally — the student from the Greek, affected by the lowering of teachers. It's amazing what it's written, because then we're going to comparative evaluations and we see that Galicia is the leader in many quantitative, qualitative and educational variables that are in the sector. I think they make very happy statements and we don't recognize that Galicia has a good education system, with good results, which is an advanced system, which progresses progressively with a joint work of the educational community and, of course, with a part of the responsibility of the administration itself, but basically with a very responsible work. And as for what you're saying, I wanted to do a series of punctuations, because whoever listened to it only could get confused or confused, or might have an idea that's not the real one. And as you said, it's better to keep quiet than to lie. But first, what you say here doesn't fit into reality. Because you claim that since December 2021 they haven't been covering the casualties by a daily call. And that's a lie because in January and February, in the most difficult moments of the last wave, substitutions were covered every day, regardless of the foreseeable duration of substitution — something exceptional in the Spanish ensemble and in the autonomous communities. And I would like you to say some autonomous community of the Socialist Party that did the same, that did what we did in the most difficult and toughest moments of the pandemic — in January and February, when there were daily calls and all the casualties were covered. Obviously, this is exceptional, derived from the pandemic situation. When we return to normality, we return to a traditional system, to normality, just like in the Central Government, in the Government of Spain, if we are taking measures that are oriented towards normality in all aspects of public life and, fortunately, also in social life. Secondly, the second point, the usual coverage — which is always saved at times of greater pressure from the pandemic crisis — takes place two days a week, is being made two days a week, Tuesday and Friday. And in this case no casualties are covered with a duration of less than 10 days. That's how it's always been and so it's restored once the pandemic situation returns to normal. And not only is this system accepted, very well accepted, by the whole educational community, but it has great prestige in the whole of Spain. And, I insist, you tell us an autonomous community of the Socialist Party that has at least a similar or similar system. They cover their casualties with a great deal of speed. And it's also true that this general rule I just said is not unmovable, and it's not unmovable when it needs it. For example, I'm going to give you an example of specific data. Last Tuesday, April 20, after Holy Week, 301 replacements were covered; and Wednesday, 156 replacements. I mean, in two days, 100 percent of the casualties were covered. We're talking about 450 bass —457 — in two days. Very fast, very quality of the system. For example, in the units it covers a day, because there's a need. And in view of what you say about this unacceptable loss of quality, reality has come to tell us that in the less than ten days, given that there is a teacher or staff needed to cover absences, it makes no sense if you want to be pedagogic. If he had it in those months, he would do it every day because there was, in addition to the pedagogical issue, a health matter. But in an ordinary way, as I've just said, we're doing it the way it's always done, and with remarkable success, great transparency and immense recognition. And I insist: look for us and tell us a system that makes it better. Fourthly, when you know the casualties in advance -- for example, a pregnancy or a planned operation or a trip that you have to make -- you are immediately covered even by personal matters. And, of course, everything that has to do with the caregivers, the caregivers, the kitchen assistants, is done exactly in the day, always in the day, because it affects the operation. This is the technical answer to what you are proposing, but I remind you of a series of data — one is known to all —. We have, Galicia has, Spain's best student/teacher ratio, along with Extremadura. No autonomous community has more teachers than Galicia in proportion to students. We have a 2007 catalogue -- part of it, a catalogue signed by you at an expansive time, of kindness. Not only do we keep the catalogue, but we've got a lot out of it in the vast majority of educational centers. There is a great effort of the Galician society to meet educational needs and, of course, it is necessary to adapt to demographics, to health changes, even to its own resources. But what we have to say is that we have the best teacher/student ratio, 70% of our primary and childhood classes are below the 20 students and 30% below the 20. And it must also be said that the public education in Greece today has more teachers than at the moment prepandemic despite having fewer students, around 6,000 students less. With which, Your Honor, I can understand that if you criticize yourself, I can understand that you question yourself, I can understand that you make baseless statements, but really what you cannot — and I think we share there — is to destabilize our teaching, destabilize our professionals and try that by means of measures that are concrete, specific, timely to a particular case at this time — that was at the peak, in January and February, when they were covered by the day— a system of substitutions that worked very well with the People's Party, which worked equally well during the Bipartisan period, and that is really a pride for the Galician assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. For the replica round, Mrs. Otero Lago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u154	Well, Counselor, may you speak, as before, of the sun, of the clouds, of the rain and that it is already spring in the English Court. But you talk about assumptions and then in your speech you just recognized that there is indeed a change. It's January when you have to leave, after weeks of denouncing the centers themselves, the unions or the ANPA unsustainable situations. Because it also agreed that they changed to this model — which you just recognized — before the pandemic in December, no more or less. I insist, in the sixth wave, with the arrival of the omicron, with Christmas around the corner, with all the bridges, that's when you stop calling and using that system of daily calls and covering practically all the casualties. They actually rectify in the month of January, with which they exploded. But not in the month of December, when it was being reported. And here I brought no cuts of any kind, I limit myself to the one that moved the centers themselves, the unions themselves and the ANPA themselves of the situation that they were living for irresponsibility. First they shut up, and then they said it was a lie and then they rectified in January and February because it was absolutely impossible to cover the level of casualties. Counselor, it was inescapable. So, either we made assumptions or it was true, one of two. Both are absolutely incompatible. Then I ask him: in December, what's changed? We were very good. You speak of the word "prudence" as using it in a common sense and with that little sense. What happens is that common sense isn't when it's interested in talking about prudence and, if not, no. What can't be, is that you talk about prudence and sharpening responsibility and distinguishing measures being the last autonomous community in the entire state that until recently sent out that children and girls had the mask because it was so appropriate and in the month of December, in the middle of the sixth wave, they didn't cover the teachers' casualties. He has neither feet nor heads. I mean, here health, health and interest is not to choose, as you said, whether we have one season of the year or another, in the spring of the English Court. It's just not like that. It's not like that! And the calling system just recognized you -- well, we've done something -- that's changed. What benefits — if you can answer me in the reply — do you have for the student and for the teacher this practice of not covering the lower than ten days — because they have the highest budget in the world? There are classes that are going through right now, up to two weeks without a teacher, with a low school teacher, up to two weeks! We don't talk about a day or two. We can consider it reasonable that, of course, on a day or two down which, among other things, all administrative procedures are already out of office, is practically not worth it. But it's giving itself the condition that they're elongating uncovered casualties for up to two weeks, Counselor. Which schedule can you set up a center? Isn't there a mere academic, educational, for that group that is two weeks without a teacher or a teacher? Isn't it true we're still in the pandemic? Isn't it true that the centers are saying -- you're talking about the catalogue -- that they're moving, reporting and asking for planning precisely towards the next course because there's a greater number of students who have been detected with specific and special needs? He spoke before even mental health problems in children, children and boys and girls getting younger and younger. And you say we go back to the system and talk about the Bipartite. Here the Bipartite worked fine because it had that system as well. When it matters, we talk about the Bipartite. It's just that I have to use the words that Mrs. Complaints said, that you're in the past, there's nothing else left. Because we're in the present -- I'm not talking about the future -- in a pandemic, with a virus that's still circulating. And he hasn't finished the course yet. The measures for this course are those that are there and you've given a steering wheel that doesn't benefit anyone at all. Counselor, it doesn't benefit anyone at all! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We therefore ask them to rectify it. And, I insist — to finish — it worked well. And if we have to learn something from the pandemic, that's what we say — which is ultimately a fallacy — that we're all going to get out better, if the control of the ratios, the breakdowns, the coverage of the lower teachers showed that it worked well, why do they go back? Why do they go back to the past? Why do you look at health when it matters? Answer us, Counselor. What is the benefit of the student, the educational community and the public education of our community that returned to the past model of not covering the lower than ten days and not making calls every day of the week? Because, as I said, it's an elemental thing, because here diseases and accidents don't call the door and they don't warn if it's Monday, Tuesday or Thursday. For our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. The Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u156	Well, Mrs. Otero, the truth is that you didn't question me if there were other autonomous communities in the whole of Spain, which you certainly know, governed by the Socialist Party that have a better system than the German. He didn't answer me. I think it's significant, absolutely significant. [[Applause]] And you, who is politically responsible — it's a question, let's say, in the air — believe, as a political leader, that a society or sector should, once the pandemic has been overcome, maintain the situation that lived in many respects during the pandemic? It would be surprising, and it would be very interesting to your answer. Of course, it doesn't coincide with their ministries, that when there were pandemic situations, they might be resourceful and, when they don't, they take us out. With which, look, nothing was taken here at all. Here what has been done was, at the most difficult times from the health perspective, strengthening a system that worked, works and will work very well. It's recognized by everyone but you, absolutely unheard of! If you ask that, once we are in a normal situation, if you maintain a system that has been made for the most difficult times — January and February — it is really something that is absolutely at the root of irresponsibility and manifests an ignorance of the functioning of the education system. And by the way, our system -- I insist -- if it's not the best, it's the best in Spain. I don't think there are many autonomous communities that can say what I say publicly here. That always worked well, always worked well. And, of course, you're talking about planning. The Socialist Party talks about educational planning. It's really unheard of. We've been suffering literally for two years the changes in the rules of the Socialist Party to half the party. What they say today, tomorrow changes it, and the past they publish something completely different. That just complicates the planning of the education system. That does bring uncertainty to the whole education system, and that creates stress in the whole education system. [[Applause]] And, look, we have a system -- as I'm saying -- that works with a very high level of excellence, with a very high level of excellence and almost without any parallel in the whole state. And we have, from the perspective of the teacher, of course, the maximum in relation to the whole of the teacher. We'll never get tired of saying that. They were vitals and are vitals, obviously, at any time in our history. But they were tremendously vital in the most critical moments of the pandemic. I think that's what we have to recognize publicly, and I'll recognize it whenever I can. And there's an effort on the part of the educational community and on the part of the Galician board to stabilize the professor, I think it's absolutely unquestionable. In Spain, for example, 25% of teachers are interim. Some autonomous socialist communities are not 40%, eh! Galicia is at 8%, at 8%. And yet we continue to do and convene stabilization squares and convene opposition squares, public contests to strengthen the teacher. We've been here a few days ago to present the process for the 2022-2023 biennium, where in Galicia we're going to have nearly 4,000 places for staff teachers, 4,000 new places for staff teachers. The objective we are considering by the Ministry we have already covered before we begin. And we have, as I told you, also the best teacher-student ratio. And in the Feijóo government, to which you always accuse of cuts, you are always accused of not stabilising the teacher — they always accuse him practically of everything — if we make an average of the teachers and the squares called in the oppositions, we have to have an average of 1,000 teachers every year since 2009. In the last five years, we're talking about 15,000. Actually, from here on -- I told you the ratios -- it's all literature. So it's only political appreciation with weak contact — if I may say so — with reality and with the education sector. Is there a lot of problems in the education sector? Are there a lot of problems in society as a whole — as I said before —? No doubt about it. But to get to the question, as you do, the replacement system of the Galician Union — which at the moment, when it was needed, we were there in the most difficult times we were there, and which now fortunately is the normalized situation we return to the normal situation, and that normal situation in the Galician assembly almost has no relation to the state as a whole — it must be, as I said, certainly daring. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia can boast, and I think it must be said with pride, of a good education system and a great teacher. Together the educational community had an absolutely exceptional and absolutely brilliant behavior during the pandemic. And what makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen, is that what was done for the pandemic was kept after the pandemic, because it wouldn't have, in many variables, in many variables, in many variables, no sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u157	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll stop the session until this afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I'm sorry. The meeting was suspended until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u158	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the eighth item on the agenda, with questions to the Government. Question by Mr Iago Tabares Pérez-Pineiro and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the partial burial of the avenue Otero Pedrayo de Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u159	Whenever you like, Mr. Tabares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor, gentlemen. A few months ago, about the end of December 2021, the Gallica Union acquired four plots in the Oresan neighbourhood of the Lagoas for the construction of an administrative building, which was already promised — as in Ourense — for decades, of what nothing was known and which was intended to engulf all the dependencies of Galician Union — which had been scattered by 20 immobiles. I take advantage of the presence of the Counsellor to see whether we can be informed — because in Commission 1 we have already tried on two occasions — of why the acquisition of this plot, approved by the Board of Trustees, of the reason for the acquired meters, of the paid price and of the express negotiation carried out with a known constructor. As I tell you, the building site of that administrative building is at the foot of the avenue Otero Pedrayo, OU-536, ancient road of Ponferrada. If one day we do this administrative building, it will obviously imply an increase in traffic and traffic and pedestrian circulation, so we are interested in the recovery of that old promise of the road burial OU-536, that is, the avenue Otero Pedrayo, in its initial third, which in addition to protecting security allows the integration of the different campuses, and even the campus with the rest of the city. This project, like all those planned for Ourense, has already been promised and announced, I believe that by the first political victim of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who was Mr. Jose Cuña — that is, we are talking about the past century — He promised himself at the time, and nothing was done. Then, with the People's Party outside the Government, about the year 2008, there was a project by the hands of the Town Hall, the University and the extinct Caixanova — a project called "The Door", by architect Patxi Mangado and Sociologist Iribas — that sought the burial of OU-536, the construction of a boulvar, a bike lane, protected housing and commercial and residential areas. But since 2008, the People's Party hasn't done anything; it really hasn't voted against ever, but it hasn't done anything to make that project come true. In that protected housing project there was no. With the People's Party in the last eight years in Ourense there's been a protected housing, we're very intrigued to know who the person would benefit, but there was one! protected housing every year; the bike lane that was in that project if you're going to do it ten kilometers up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u162	...just in the properties of the family (...)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u163	Thank you, your time is up. Thank you. Answer by the Infrastructure & Mobility Advisor, Ms. Ethel Maria Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u164	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, I believe that in your initiative, of course, part of an important error in the field of competition that I will begin to explain right now. But anyway, we're going somewhere. You know that between 2018 and 2019 we did an important remodeling of the Otero Pedrayo Avenue on the OU-536 highway, an old autonomic road — it's not an autonomic road. That improvement was a radical and important improvement of road safety in this area, with two roundabouts, also an ornamental source, traffic lights, steps of renewed pedestrians, renewed lighting, renewed sidewalks, improved accessibility also to the university, the university pool, and also an important path. So it was an improvement in road safety, accessibility and important mobility on the avenue of Otero Pedrayo, although it seems little to you. It was two million euros practically, about two million euros. And in 2019, in the Official Journal of Galicia, you know there was a change of title. So you're asking me about a municipal title line. The Galician Union is not the holder of this route; therefore, its initiative is part of an important error in concept and is crashing at a door where it should not crash, because we are talking about a channel of municipal ownership. Then you accuse me of invading skills, don't you? And I believe that we must respect the competences and always fulfil the competences of each individual, and I do not think that it must be criticized for realising the competences and ownership of the different roads. Therefore, it is the Town Hall, as the holder of the road, who must pronounce himself on that burial and, first of all, evaluate whether there is the concrete opportunity of that urban management and of that mobility that you pose. I understand you don't have to ask me and demand that you invade the municipal powers. So I insist that you confuse yourself from the door. In any case, the important remodeling we did on the avenue of Otero Pedrayo when the road was from Galician Union did not prevent the burial; we're talking about complementary actions. Therefore, you must decide the competent one, which is the Council of Ourense, and are compatible acts. I think there can be no doubt — and they pass any exam — about the investments of the Galician Union in the city of Ourense. It was nine million euros from the bus station — from the first intermodal station. 97% are missing, which is the railway station, by the Government of Spain, and I don't hear it. We met with Pino's neighbors destroying the old bus station. Also the two phases of the Roman-Capel Bridge of Remedies, the routes bided and running, the paths that will connect the north and the south of Ourense and also the 52 million euros of the extension of the hospital. Therefore, investments in the Galician Union cannot be doubted. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u165	Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u166	Yes, with the coming, Your Honor. First of all, two million euros of investment, no, one million four hundred thousand plus VAT. And then, to do this, a real joke. This, this! [[Mr. Tabares Pérez-Pineiro shows a document.]] Anyway! Then that's exactly what he just said now has already answered it in 2017. In 2017, being mayor of Don Jesús Vázquez, the Town Hall has already required you — I think you were already a counselor — to produce a project for the burial of the track, that third. The road is still autonomous, that piece of shit got him stuck in the Town Hall just a short time ago. In 2017 I could already answer our questions and say, "We have a project but it's in phase..." Answer it, because then, and until very recently, if it was the title of the board. In any case, what is the intention of the Town Hall, that you cogobernan? By the way, this requirement was unanimous in the plenary. After three years of title of the board of Galicia waiting for this requirement to be met by the friendly council, the Council of Ourense again has to make another requirement in March 2020, and the plenary session of the board of Ourense, unanimously, urges the board of Gauliza — to use the figure it wants, but the will is explained, well by a good agreement by the figure it is — to make this burial of a track, not of a third but of a path, which is indeed of autonomous ownership. And with regard to the works that have just been done by the Galician Union in Ourense, they are — I am sorry — absolutely ridiculous, because the road, a road called the Portuguese border band, you finish it in Celanova and have no intention to follow — despite the unanimity of economic and political groups claiming that this motorway AG-31 follows to the Portuguese border. Then they make a vial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u168	...that connects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tabares, your time is up. For closing the question, the Infrastructure and Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u170	Thank you, President. Your Honor, don't you pay the VAT, do you not consider the VAT? The board pays the VAT, people pay the VAT, I think it's incredible that you don't care if the VAT is paid or not paid and if it's 21%. Our works are paid with IVE and 21%. So I think it's a huge mistake, as a Member of Parliament you are, not to take into account whether or not to pay the VAT of works, just like the VAT that pays people. But in any case, I believe that the actions of the Galician Council in Ourense that have an urban vocation have no doubt and overcome any examination. So don't come here to discuss the works. I'm going to the big, not like you, who disagreed with other things. I believe that the works we do are realistic, viable, positive, paying the VAT. BNG is always against what is done. If Galicia's doing well, it's going to make BNG worse. It's his philosophy. It's in your DNA being in permanent contradiction, it's your DNA being in permanent contradiction and always being against what is done and what benefits Galicia. It's his DNA, what we're gonna do to him! But I'll keep answering you. They're also against the Water Comprehensive Cycle Management Act. They're asking to eliminate the spills and then they're going against the law. It's the permanent contradiction, against everything. Of all the good things, because they're against them to see if they're doing better. Also, what about the sustainable mobility in Pontevedra, that they didn't get those next generation funds? The practice of contradiction in their band is important. And I'll tell you the top of the contradiction. I'll read. It is in Spanish because it is a writing — in Congress — of the BNG Member of the BNG Néstor Rego in terms of burial — if we speak of burial in Ourense we can also speak of burial in Vigo. It's against the solar gate tunnel, and if you let me, I'll read your opinion on the burial. Leo: "There are many technical and expert recommendations that warn of the counterproductive effect of the underground derivation of traffic in relation to the strategic objective of withdrawing the private vehicle from traffic in the heart of our cities" — BNG. [[Murmurs.]] Permanent contradiction. It's your DNA. But he's here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If they don't, I'll leave it to the president. I think inconsistencies are absolute, and I think the investments of the Galician Union are not in question, they exceed the examination of any... we're talking about investments. The extension of the hospital is EUR 25 million. And I think I said everything and I've reported all the investments we're making. What you don't criticize is the lack of investments by the Government of Spain, the construction of the A-76 or the construction of the Lugo-Uurense highway, which is of capital importance. And you're with a government in Spain that they support. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u171	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Iria Carreira Pazos and D. Paulo Ríos Santmé, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures planned to recover the line and schedules of the road passenger transport service XG80412 Santiago-Negreira
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Now we're talking about Barcala and Compostela neighborhoods. The truth is that we could talk about Barbacia, Ferrolterra, Arzua, almost any region or region of Galicia. I am counting these because they will be the subject of parliamentary debate in the coming days. Because what is happening with collective transport in our country is truly Dantesque. It almost doesn't matter where we look because there's going to be protests about the outcome of public transport in the Greek territory, both by default and by the actions of both the governments of both the Greeks and the Central. Focusing on the case of transport that depends on the government that still today presides over Núñez Fexóo, the Galician Public Transport Plan has some basic principles: facilitating people's mobility, promoting and enhancing the priority use of public transport and facilitating intermodality and accessibility, so that it can become a sustainable alternative to private transport by contributing to territorial vertebration. On this basis, we can agree that the public transport service should meet the needs of the people who use it, working as a good alternative to the use of the particular vehicle. In the case of the question that we bring here today, the Santiago-Black line, the people who use this transport met last Monday, January 24, the day when the change of the transport company took place—with schedules that were modified with virtually no warning, which forced many of these users to stay on the ground or look for other alternatives on the march to move. For a few days the information was very scarce, without places to consult it in a true and accessible manner and with traps to channel their complaints and claims. Because these exist. For example, as there are times when the buses they travel are in a truly deplorable state. But we are not going to deepen on that issue today, because it would certainly lead to a full debate. The discomfort is mainly due to changes in schedules that have taken place. This transport line is used no longer by occasional travellers, but is also frequently used by workers, even by students of the IES of Brión and the IES Julian Magariños of Black, among others. Time changes have come to suggest to more than half a hundred students that the arrival of the bus is not adjusted to the start and end of classes, when until January they come using public transport without inconveniences, which was also denounced by the ANPAs and the management teams of the centers. We are pleased that since the Galician Union you have heard this claim and partially rectified at this point. In the entry register of this House itself was delivered more than one thousand and two hundred signatures of people who manifested this discomfort and asked for a change in hours so that such transport could be truly exploited. The question is simple: will you get your schedules back on the Santiago-Black bus line?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u174	Thank you, President. I'm glad I can share the goals that you're commenting on in public transport, those basic principles of public transport to facilitate people's lives and adapt them to their needs. And for us as soon as the public transport service, the bus, is vital to fighting against depopulation. It's also an ideal tool for combating pollution and especially for facilitating rural mobility. We work like this, and we're constantly monitoring and following up on the public transport plan. We are aware of the goodness of the public service and of course we bet on public services with clarity. Our bet is clear, determined, constant, and that's why we keep going. For us, it is a priority that the Public Transport Plan should be useful, and in that sense we are working. And also in the railroad, which you know has not recovered the frequencies prior to the pandemic. So you can talk a lot about public transport and services, not just coming to the Galician Council to criticize whether there is a timetable setting or not — by the way, time adjustments that are already arranged and agreed with the institute and with the ANPAs. And I would also like, if we talk about public transport, to say that we, as a Government, are on maximum alert as a result of the draft law on sustainable mobility which is promoting the Government of Spain and which you support in Madrid. We are on maximum alert and we make allegations because it ignores the rural, condemns the rural. I invite them to study and analyze this preliminary draft, because it completely abandons the fundamental principle of territorial balance and makes an excessive emphasis on profitability. It's an act of death, of course, of the short and half-distance train. And you, for nothing, come here to lay down duties on the Galician board — which I think is very good — but I wanted to question in the context of public transport, because we're talking about public transport, why they close their eyes to other matters that are infinitely more relevant and that will have a tremendous impact on the mobility of Galician rural. As I tell you, we keep track of the three thousand seven hundred transport lines, three million passengers and eighty million euros a year that we moved to public transport. It's 7.5 million data per day that we receive from public transport, 7.5 million data per day that we receive and that we analyze why each data is so. As I say, it's a five-post schedule adjustment of twenty-six to improve the public transport service. And we want to continue to offer quality services, so we're doing a quality survey that will last seven weeks — one thousand three hundred polls in one thousand eight hundred expeditions. And, of course, the kindness of public transport is demonstrated. That's when we agreed on that timetable. It's already agreed and restored in line with the ANPAs in the area.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u175	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u176	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u177	For the reply, Mrs. Carreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I recognize you, Counselor, the mixture you made of garlic with bugs, because it has nothing to do with what I said to you. If you want, we're talking about a long day's work on the train in this country, or even the work the central government is doing about the train, the frequencies in the services and all that. But I don't think it's the subject of this debate. BNG has already launched initiatives in Madrid regarding the preliminary draft of what you were talking about, and there it will defend them. As I told you, to begin with, making a change like this in the schedules of a service such as transport and without properly informing users in advance, without having the information easily available and accessible, is a lack of respect for users of the transport service. To continue, public services have to adapt to the needs of the population, as well as transport. If you really want to comply with the principles that I've listed earlier from Galicia's Public Transport Plan, bus schedules have to serve the needs of the population in that area. To continue, I first congratulated him on his recent change, including the stop at the IES in Brión, making a minimum change also on the schedules to adapt to those of the educational center; a change that dates back to April 19, 2022. Too bad it took you three months to make changes that are so simple and that make it so easy for you to use this service to a large part of the population. Too bad you have to bring initiatives here, collect signatures and have such a brutal selective deafness that you won't be able to listen to criticism. And I'm talking about the students at the IES in Brión, because the students at the July Magariños de Negroira still have to wait — besides, now, they have a terrible school transport service in front of them and that, in addition to constant deficiencies, they are facing the company's claim to reduce transport lines. Too bad, Counselor, that they're more concerned with press notes than doing a rigorous, serious job and...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u179	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Carreira. For closing the question, the Infrastructure and Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u180	Thank you, President. What a short time has our idiom lasted talking about public transport and working together for public transport, for better public transport, which is what we do for continuous follow-up! And if we have to adjust some schedule, because we listen, because we're constantly tracking, listening and adapting services to people's needs. I wish our idyll had lasted much longer for public transport, but I see that no longer. I say that already in January they made adjustments, in five expeditions of twenty-six, in the area that you told me, in the expeditions Santiago-Black—about fifteen minutes, and, well, they were on four buses of the sense of Santiago-Black and one of the Black-Santiago—. We set those times, which is not service reduction -- don't talk to me about service reduction, because I thought you heard in the second "service reduction" intervention. No service reduced, some time adjustment was performed for improving the service, so there may have been some drawback on time, but no service deleted at all. There are still twenty-six daily expeditions from Monday to Friday, and by weekend there are eighteen daily expeditions. If we complement it with public transport offers with the other headings — Muxia, Santa Comba and Outes — we're talking about 40 services a day between 6:45 and 22:10, and twenty-four services on the weekend, important public transport services. And then what I'm telling you is, where are the cuts? In the Government of Spain transport plan. On long-distance interurban routes, stops and frequencies are being eliminated in the Plan for the Modernization of Public Transport Grants of the Government of Spain between communities. You don't bring the collation here, at least, and talking about public transport, because today I use it to put it on the table. Because we heard the IES of Brión and Julian Magariños. We listen to them, and that's why we meet with the ANPAs, and we also meet with the school staff to find a solution. Of course we hear and dialogue, and there it is: we resume that change of schedule and we wake up between the parties the exit at 7:25 last April 19, as you said. So it's agreed because we listen to people and implement agreed adjustments. There's also a new stop — which I haven't heard from you — you know we're deploying a new stop last Tuesday too. So it's better that the Galician Union has attended because the Galician Union is listening, because the Galician Union is following the Public Transport Plan. And we're very attentive and very sensitive to demands and needs to adapt public transport. In Pontevedra Town Hall, why do you want the Galician Junta to do the urban bus? Why would it be? Because the hard thing is managing the urban bus. What about New People? It's the Cunta of Galicia that implanted New People.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u181	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u182	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u183	Thank you. Question by Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding solutions for water supply problems in the south of the province of Pontevedra collected in the study of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation in the document Study of alternatives and environmental document for improvement of supply in the south of the province of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u184	Question by Manuel Antonio Lourenzo Sobral of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u185	Good afternoon. A reflection, Counsellor, we are the only ones we bring here today is a reflection on the hemerotheca of the revolts, of the changes of opinion, of the ways of the People's Party regarding the transvasion, so that — if it is for good — it is reflected, since we speak of rivers, as if it were in the waters of the Verdugo and the Eighth, which is what we have come to talk about. So, Counsellor, in 2010, for the first time, the Board assesses a transvasion from the Verdugo and the Eighth as an option for the supply of Vigo. This leads to the first reactions to the environmental outcome that it would have and in 2011 a report by Galician Waters will discard this barbarity for the first time in 2017, a luxury later, a context of drought and new change, a new revolution, a new meander of the Galician Union: where it said that the transvasion would not be done, what it says now is not only that this transvasion if it will be done but also that it will be done by the emergency procedure, without impact reports and taking it forward in three months—it was said. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] This logically generates unprecedented mobilisations in Soutomairo and Ponte Caldelas, which motivate in 2018 a new May, a new turning point — this time the PP says in this Parliament that transvasion is yes, but no urgency. And in October -- a new meander, a new change of mind -- says that transvasion can now wait and that what needs to be done is a study. Let us recapitulate, Counsellor, because I understand that the succession of facts is not easy to follow: first, yes; then, no; then, yes urgently; then yes but without urgency; and finally, "we have to study it." And we finally arrived in October 2021 and, in the light of the progress of this study that Junta also commissioned, what does PP say? He says transvasion doesn't in principle, but he makes statements that leave us equally concerned. He says, "We are supporters of other measures, how to increase the capacity of cheers." And what we want you to answer to us, the neighborhood and the sailors who accompany us today in this Parliament is what you are referring to as "increasing the capacity of the coroners". Are you referring to a re-enactment of Eiras? Are you looking forward to a boost in Force to supply Eiras? Those are the questions we have moved you, Counselor. Do you definitely discard the transvasion? Yes or no? There's been too many rounds. What we ask of him is that, once and for all, we be able to swallow him. Do you definitely discard Eiras' recreation? Yes or no? Do you definitely discard the encouragement of Forzáns, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u186	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. Response from the Infrastructure & Mobility Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u187	Your Honor, for turnarounds and handcuffs, you. There's in your DNA permanent contradiction. And I'm going to explain it now, because you're confused about history. Don't come here to convey to me Abel Caballero's statements and proposals from the Mayor of Vigo. [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral utters words that are not perceived.]] And, well, the story is there. Why didn't the execution of the execution of the Verdugo and the Octavén in 2017? It's obvious. On the proposal of the Galician Council, who had studied it. We're going to give solutions to water management problems, we've always seen it. And in the face of problems, we work on solutions. We offer in 2018 a study jointly with the Vigo Council, the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Confederation, a study without apriorisms to address the future supply of Vigo and South Pontevedra with supply guarantees. The results of this study — the last ones — we received them in the waters of Galicia on April 11. And today, what the study says is what you don't say, that's what we said; that's why it's his revolts and meanders. But I like he likes meandros, he likes water management. What the study says, on page 8 in particular, is what we said from the waters of Galicia, from the Unity of Galicia and this ever-in-time advisor: the guarantee of supply to real demands is guaranteed; volumetric guarantee, monthly guarantee, annual guarantee, 100%, 100%, 100%. The problem was and it's at ETAP, and I didn't listen to you in 2017 -- I didn't hear it, maybe they said -- [[Murmurs.]] Well, that's where we're betting on the improvement of the ETAP of the couple, and there's the facts. Bad for the wasted time of all these years without paying attention to the improvement of ETAP. We have already been absolutely clear and we are convinced that it was an immediate necessity at the Potable Water Treatment Station, because supply today is guaranteed, and it was a pity the time spent all these years without improving the Potable Water Treatment Station, because today it was started — we will accept it — with a controversial concession, but well, there it is; it is in works, even if it is not finished. In 2017 there was water. The cheer of Eiras was at 37%, which means it had water, and the problem was at the Potable Water Treatment Station. That's what we've always seen defending him. So don't change your story as you're interested in it. What is now important is that the proceedings — which are in a study by the Confederation, which does not make waters of Galicia; the study is contracted by the Confederation, and we have signed an agreement to co-finance — must have its environmental backing. And the Verdugo transvasion, we've already said, is not useful, it's not effective, it's even counterproductive from the hydrological, environmental and hydraulic point of view. We always say it and we say it again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u188	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u189	For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u190	Thank you. For the reply, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u191	Well, if there are meanders, Counselor, go if there are contradictions, that you come here to say that you kept an opinion in 2017 -- you know what you just said -- and it turns out that I have here a note from 2018 that says, "The PP refuses in Parliament to paralyze the execution of the Verduce." [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows a document.]] Calm down. Or in 2017 they were against the transvasion and they were saying what they just said now, or it turns out that in 2018 — a year later, or several months later — they were still fearing attacking the River Verdugo and the River Oitavén. I do not say so, this Member, Luís Bará, who gave that debate; and Mr Pazos, of the People's Party, who went, with all the fellows who have here, who voted against paralyzing an aggression as was the passage of the Verdugo by the Board of Galicia. And tell us what to look at for other governments, for the Vigo Government. Of course we're extremely critical, and so we were. Moreover, if you were able to paralyze the transvasion you were proposing by the Government of Vigo and to protect the Council of Galicia in 2018, it was thanks to the mobilisations of the neighborhood you are accompanying us today, by the sailors, who gave an example of dignity in the face of their policies, Counselor. [[Applause]] And it's done that I think it's fantastic for you to make a reference to the Vigo Government, but, of course, we have a problem of contradiction also in your statements, Counselor. Because it turns out, if we pull out of the hemerotheque, in the same year 2018 the responsible you now mark had exactly the exact same position as you. "PSOE and PP urge the execution of the execution from the Verdugo at the risk of new droughts." [[Mr. Lourenzo Sobral shows the document again.]] Counsellor, it's that in her first intervention she didn't tell a truth. Try to rewrite the story, and the story is stubborn. And I don't say it to this Member, but I say it to the hemerotheca. I insist on the important, because you haven't answered us yet: do you definitely discard the encouragement of Forces? whether or not, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u192	Thank you, Mr. Lourenzo Sobral. For closing the question, the Infrastructure and Mobility advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u193	The permanent contradiction is in your DNA, Your Honor. You know that. [[Murmurs.]] They're against a law that improves, eliminates spills and bets on network audits. They bet on audits on supply networks to Vigo, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u194	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u195	Therefore, permanent contradiction is yours, that of the Galician Nationalist Block; and above all in water management is already incredible. They intend to give water management lessons when the municipalities of BNG, most of them, are absolutely dissociated from the debugger. That is the coherence of the BNG, disconcerting about the debuggers, rising the receipts — as we heard yesterday, in Tomineño, in Carballo — of the water. That's his permanent contradiction in water and in the matter of many other things. I'll insist on something. There is a study carried out by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation - hence the Ministry for the Ecological Transition - which performs a series of actions. We're talking about a new dam; a pumping of the Mine River to the Zamans River -- which I haven't heard from you -- it also provides for the Verdugo River and the Eighth River; it also provides for the reinforcement of the Amoedo Tunnel; also a reinforcement for the system -- I've been telling you about the study, please; if you leave me, I'll continue. And now the Confederation should at least believe the environmental avalanche; I think that's what the Confederation should do. We can't bet on any encouragement or transvasion without believing the environmental avalanche, which is logical, and should offer it to the Confederation. I've been insisting — and I've been in the waters of Galicia for many years, inside and as a counselor — and we've been telling you for many years now, that ETAP -- that I don't listen to you -- is essential. Thank God he's running. Transvasion of the Verdugo is in the study. In the study, if you read the small letter and you interpret the tables, you see that it is neither effective nor useful nor viable — it seems you don't care what I say to you — and that's what we're going to interpret and say. The problem is not in our supply guarantees today, which are 100% guaranteed; what is studied there is that of the year 2070; that is, in the long term that alternatives pose. The scale is very quiet because we are talking about an international crossing of the Mine, of transvasion between basins, to supply different municipalities, and given the scale and the rivers involved, what is needed is that this supply of general interest to the south of Pontevedra and to the municipality of Vigo, because if the supply to Lugo, the Ourense and also the Pontevedra were declared of general interest, even more so. And we have orders already to the Confederation today, both the declaration of general interest and environmental support. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u196	Thank you. Noa Susana Díaz Varela and Noelia Otero Lago, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the detailed evaluation of the campaign of the Cultural Bonus launched in 2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u197	Good afternoon, Counselor. At the end of last year, the Galician Union launched a grant to subsidize the purchase of cultural products in two months — from November 1 to December 31 — with a 50% discount on the purchase made and up to a maximum of EUR 50. The main objective — it was said — was to encourage cultural demand and promote consumption, in addition to trying to strengthen the sector, to boost the activity of cultural establishments and to reduce the economic impact resulting from the cessation and restrictions of activity as a result of the pandemic of cod. The summons also explained the type of product that could be purchased or consumed, as well as its inclusions, and kept seventeen IAE groups and headings that had to be registered with those adhered to. On the basis of the call, it was also explained that the General Secretariat of Culture, as program manager, could carry out random verification or inspection actions to ensure the correct application of public resources and also to logically verify the proper execution of the program. We here today would like to know whether the General Secretariat of Culture has carried out some of these random inspections and whether it already has data on its execution and results. Do you know, for example, Counsellor, what kind of establishments have been spent on these bonds? Do you know what kind of cultural product was consumed? Do you know which dates were the highest consumption or if you used that bonus more on rural contours or urban contours? And what's more important, Counsellor, has Greek culture been consumed?, have cultural bonds been spent on culture produced and created in our country? We asked him this because we would only be meeting one of the objectives of the call, as it was to contribute to strengthening our sector. We are very accustomed, unfortunately, to the development of very media and supposedly great silence by the Government of Greece - very large silence! - without a diagnosis, something that concerns us; but what we are most concerned about, without making a rigorous analysis of the results of those actions. While the Socialist Group feels that any initiative to promote cultural consumption is appropriate - in addition, it is something we approve and applaud - if we consider that after this first experience there should be a rigorous assessment of the effects it has, in particular — as I say — on the Greek cultural products, and to what extent it has helped to create new audiences and strengthen our culture. Moreover, it would seem very appropriate for you to consult, as we did, the sector to see if that discount had the expected effects. That's why we now, on this occasion, want to ask you whether you have carefully evaluated the Galician Union the campaign of the Cultural Bonus launched at the end of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist Party for the presentation, in the sense that it seems that they saw as positive an initiative put at the moment in a social context and in a context that was frankly complex, fortunately different from the current one, and that to some extent had a very positive impact — and we understand it — on the sector. All the messages we had from the professionals involved in the Cultural Bonus were positive. The truth is that it wasn't the only action that has been put in place to promote the reactivation of the cultural sector, that in addition to its own activity, which is fundamental to building and strengthening our identity and also to produce entertainment products from the cultural perspective, it has a great impact on the world of work, since we are talking about approximately 30,000 professional people who work every day in this sector. The cultural sector was a well-resisted sector, which had support from the significant autonomous administration. We launched in 2022 measures over forty-two million euros to reactivate and promote the cultural sector in its entirety. The nearly two million of the Cultural Bond were one of them — one of the most significant, but one of them — and the truth is, fortunately, we are satisfied with its result and its balance sheet. We just got to know today in the morning the data of the Galician Culture Barometer - from the Council - where it puts the situation of the Galician cultural industry - by extension of our culture - I think that in very good place, with good results and, above all, very good expectations. Obviously, it was put at Christmas, in the last quarter, also to take advantage of the increase in current purchases and use cultural products as a product too, if you want, to favor consumption, by giving these products to people. Thirty-nine thousand bonds, 50% to 50 euros — as you have said, I will not repeat it — in different products put in place. And if you ask me about whether we have the balance sheet data, because I tell you that we do. Perhaps the first indicator that gauges its success was the speed and the very good response with which the Greek society arrived at these bonds. It's almost over in a day. Another good answer: the companies that got involved, a huge number of cultural companies that got involved. And what's the balance? We're talking about thirty-nine thousand beneficiaries; we're talking about, in a big way, seventy thousand purchasing operations, basically in bookstores; we're talking about five hundred establishments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u200	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Thank you... [[Mr. Culture, Education and University Counsellor, Rodríguez González, utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, they're not listening anymore. [[Applause]] For the reply, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u201	I'm sorry, Counselor, that I had run out of time because I was really fine. But I'm afraid that's not the data I wanted. When he launched this Cultural Bonus, which in our opinion proved to be — from there our question — more a discount on the Christmas campaign, to the use of how many other municipalities have done to encourage their trade, you did not spare criticism of the cultural bond New People of the State, which will start soon and, as you know, as it has already happened in France or Italy, allocate 400 euros for children and 18-year-olds to devote them to the consumption of culture, with a distribution, in addition, of content in differentiated blocks to ensure the consumption of all kinds of products. It is curious, by the way — and you have just said, that something similar is produced here — that 80% of that bond in the countries that already have it is spent on books, now that we have just celebrated the Book Day and in front of the Council of Galicia's dispassionate towards this sector, in our opinion. For you this seemed to be discriminatory. We can only put our hands to the head; as if to establish a specific target audience for a concrete purpose it could be discriminatory. The bottom line is that entry into adulthood is accompanied by an economic impulse for enjoyment, for the discovery of cultural activities, in addition to an incentive to consolidate citizens and citizens who incorporate culture into their vital development. Since Galician youth in Galicia can't enjoy decent work and housing, at least we make it easy for them and people at least free. Let's be serious, responsible. In our opinion, in a matter as transcendental as culture, we believe that for once, they must adopt a coherent stance, according to strict evaluation. We don't want the figures you were giving us, not a number, but the type, to go to the data not as quantitative but more qualitative as to what that use of those bonds was about. Call that bonus again. We agree that there is a need for a cultural bond, but it does so carefully, first by evaluating — as I say — the results, and then with a greater focus on the selection of products and establishments, as well as over time, so that that really that bond is an instrument that favors cultural consumption and above all our own culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u203	Mrs. Díaz, if I didn't hear bad -- and I don't think I heard bad -- you did here a closed defense of the State Government's Cultural Bond. Does it seem normal to you that my 17-year-old son can't participate, or that you and I can't participate? Does that sound normal? All right. You think it's normal for 18-year-olds to be alone. And does it seem normal that this bond -- which started selling publicly -- I think about October last year -- still today, six months later, doesn't exist? If you tell me where to get out, when my son is 18, I'll tell him to ask. But how can you make an extravagant defense of a measure—which I don't say, is not what the People's Party says—many agents of the sector said—that he was absolutely electoralist? And by the way, after six months -- a great management capacity -- it hasn't been seen yet. It was sold at the time that it was to reactivate consumption at times of economic difficulty for the business sector of the world of culture. Well, it's gonna end the pandemic and it's not here yet. Well, he'll be here someday. But, really, that you come here to defend a model of the Cultural Bonus put in place by the Ministry of Culture is absolutely sarcastic and absolutely undefensible. [[Applause]] That said, there's quantitative data. We know the establishments, we know the municipalities, they won't have any greater interest. There's on the website the establishments that participated, where they were sold... there's all the data. You said you don't want quantitative data. Well, look, some are very significant, like I said. Obviously, it arrived everywhere, it reached the urban councils and the rural municipalities; it would probably sell more in the urban municipalities, obviously. But we have seen in the media the good result of this bond and how the bookstores and other sectors have spoken positively. That's a qualitative data. If you don't want quantitative data, have that qualitative data as a reference. And you almost seem to question what had been done at Christmas. Home! It's better to do it at Christmas than not do it, like you. But at Christmas I think it's positive, because giving culture with a bonus that encourages consumption is positive. At least I see it that way. I give, whenever I can, books, and I think it was the right time to do it. I've already told you the number of operations, establishments... the good welcome I think it was very positive, the sector defended it and promoted it. Even some federations, some groups in the sector themselves campaigned themselves in their cities; for example, in Ourense, the Federation of Librarians. I think it was a collective success, a success for the sector, which helped the sector in difficult times, and that really, if you want a qualitative balance, I would say it was a qualitative balance of success.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u205	And, I insist, I think I'm comparing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u206	You're a counselor, you're done. That's it. Question by D. Daniel Pérez López and D. Manuel Lourenzo Sobral, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the repair works of the Institute of Secondary Education Alfredo Brañas of Carballo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u207	Good afternoon, Counselor. The act hall of the Institute of Secondary Education Alfredo Brañas, of Carballo, is a clear element among the various educational centres with which the municipality counts. It's a singular space, equipped with a courtyard of armchairs for 294 people and a pole for 119 people, but it's also true that most of those armchairs on the top cannot be used for problems on the wall, so that only the first row allows you to see the scene. In any case, this conference room played a role for the development of the educational project in the centre a few months ago. There the new student was received when the course began, there were graduation ceremonies for years, there were extra-school activities, such as the essays of the theatre group at the center, musical concerts at the student, screening of films for educational purposes, or it was the space where the parents meetings were held, the tutors' presentations to the student and the teachers' clauses themselves. Also festivals of the teaching calendar, such as that of the Entroido, giving in on many occasions to other educational centers that lack a space of these characteristics. So a space is vital so that the professor and the management team can organize the educational project of a state-of-the-art vanguard and reference centre in the province. Without the conference room, Alfredo Brañas is an incomplete, partially useless center that limits and conditions the educational project. That is precisely the current situation, because in June 2021, the roof of the hall of acts fell, possibly caused by the humidity and a plague of the oats. Without personal damage, the materials are enough: fall of parts of the false ladder roof, which in turn caused damage to the armchairs, as well as damage to the electrical lighting system, which must be added to the plague of hazelnuts, which affects much of the armchairs with wooden restocks. In the face of this situation, the management team has taken the only possible decision: to close the conference room and to transfer it to the Councillory of the event. And closed is today, ten months later! He made the communication, in June, he turned to a member of the Technical Office of the Council and an architect to assess the damage, but it was not until December — six months after the ceiling fell — and coincided with the record of this initiative, when some workers removed part of the shells from the false ceiling. On February 25, eight months after the collapse of the roof, agreeing with the debate in the Education Committee of an initiative of this group, in which the immediate arrangement of the lobby was requested, was when the territorial inspector was presented at the center, informing the head of the centre that a report had to be made, eight months after his councillor had been informed of the fact. Knowing that once the project has been done, we still have to implement it, what we want with this question, we and the educational community, is to know when the government planned to perform the works of reform of the facade and the comprehensive arrangement of Alfredo Brañas's performance hall, of Carballo. I suppose and hope you can communicate to the management team, to the students and mothers, that after almost a year of the ceiling fall if the project is being developed and that the work will be carried out before September this year, so that the educational community can enjoy Alfredo Brañas's performance hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u208	Thank you, Mr. Pérez López. Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, the Alfredo Brañas Institute of Carballo is an absolutely simple center, an ancient center too. It was inaugurated in the 1970s — more than 50 years old — and indeed, many generations of neighbors from that town, from the surroundings — I suppose you too — were formed. It is true that Galicia has a very wide educational furniture park, more than a hundred educational centers, with an average age of about forty years, and it is necessary constantly to make reforms. There are problems, there's a constant need to make improvements, works, enlargements, as it corresponds to a real estate park so abundant, so numerous and also that it's a certain age. In fact, we have a plan, the Plan of new pedagogical architecture, which aims to guide this reform and these enlargements from a perspective focused on the objectives of this plan. Since we were aware of this situation, of the fall of the false roof in the lobby, the administrative machinery was put in place to give you an answer, and there was a visit from the technical unit -- you mentioned it here -- and a series of actions. Obviously, there are some deadlines, some administrative times, that I will be the first to say that I would like them to be more agile, but it is set in the legal framework itself that it is necessary to make a series of visits, of initial evaluations, and, let's say, of technical studies, before writing the project and before you can run the works. In this sense, I can tell you that the technical studies we have up to now tell us about a series of works to be done at the level of albanalleria, the level of luminaire, changes in electricity installations, etc. We already have the technical evaluation, we know what there is going to be, we know what their cost is, and obviously we are going to commission the project immediately — as it cannot be otherwise — so that we can put in place the corresponding improvement of this educational centre through its action hall. As I say, we're with the previous studies of the technical unit done, we're going to commission the project, we're going to bid the project and we're going to run the work within the procedures and within the legal deadlines set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u210	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u211	Counselor, your answer is disappointing and unfortunately predictable. The repeated argument to the paroxysm of the administrative deadlines with which the Government of the People's Party hides its breaches does not apply in this case, Counsellor, because you count in the Council with RAM funds, the reform, enlargement and improvement funds, which are agile and are not subject to the rigidity of the common administrative deadlines. That's why your answer is always that, a curtain of smoke to cover up the absolute disillusionment with which the German Government, in this case Mr. Feijóo, punishes Carballo and, in this case, his educational community. Because the Alfredo Brañas Hall of Acts is paradigmatic of this reality, because we are talking about a centre where the important investments of the Education Council over the last five years are summed up very soon: there was not one; a centre that met in 2002 — as you said — fifty years, which needs as a water of May this integral action in the lobby of acts, with the placement of the false ceiling, the replacement of the armchair patio, an action on the periphery of the chicken, but which also needs other performances on the facades of the building due to the danger of falling waterfalls. I'd like you to commit yourself to the educational community that the work of this comprehensive arrangement will be completed at the beginning of the 2022-2023 academic course, because you can make use of these RAM funds from the Council, which are agile, as I say, and not subject to these unnecessary procedures. It would be a very good news. All this is not an object for you, as the maximum political officer of the Council, to explain why for almost a year now this centre has been deprived of a key element in developing the educational project, because I understand that you consider the lobby to be an important element in developing this educational project, or either you share what the spokesperson for the PP Parliamentary Group in the debate on this topic in the Commission, when he literally said that: "The conference room is not a basic necessity and therefore does not meet its immediate arrangement." You can disallow these statements — which are bold — or assume them, thus assuming an archaic and totally outmoded conception of modern education. And you also explain why there has been no contact with any of the Board of Directors for more than a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u212	Thank you. To close the question, the Councillor for Culture, Education and University.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u213	Well, Your Honor, first of all, a clarification, so as not to confuse us. The consignments of RAM are subject to the same procurement procedures as other funds; not because they are RAM funds is faster. He's got the same recruitment processes, public exposure, elaboration, absolutely the same. It gives me the feeling of saying, "You guys with RAM fix it fast." No, it's fixed the same, either the ram background game or the game that's in another field. I've already told you what the procedure was, and obviously, to do a project first you have to know what it is necessary to do, and quantify it, to know how much it costs. I can tell you. We already have the technical studies done, we have the preliminary studies prepared by the territorial head and the technical unit, we know what to do and we have an economic valuation. The economic valuation of the works, in particular, is EUR 229,700. That's what the technical unit tells us today that it's hard to rehabilitate, and let's say, Alfredo Brañas' performance room. It is possible, as is also the situation of over-price in works and complexity, that will then have to increase, but the costs of placing value, of fixing the problems of the lobby of acts are 229,700. You'll understand that to reach this figure... It's not a happy figure that passes by a technician or an architect, size and say "cost this." No, no, no, no. There are a few steps, a few procedures, a technical evaluation is made. There are a few steps to follow. And that's what we are. We know what to do, we know how much it costs, we'll take care of the project so we can bid, we can bid it out and we'll do it. That we'd like it to be faster? Of course, but there are some procedures — so that they will or will not be the first to question or criticize — that must be followed and that must be maintained. And I think the educational community of Alfredo Brañas certainly deserves to have this hall of acts, of course, but we also have to take into account that there are procedures and processes to follow, and -- I insist -- from the very first moment worked and made a technical assessment. We know the necessary works and we know the cost, 229,700 euros; and from there there is still a procedure to carry out a publication, an invitation to tender, etc., and then a execution of the work. With which we are convinced that this answer — I don't know if you would be interested more than you had ever done — is very satisfactory for the whole educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u214	Thank you, Counselor. Question of Da María Incarnation Amigo Díaz and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union in relation to the development of the Primary Care Health Infrastructure Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u215	Question by Mrs Díaz of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u216	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Last October, the Board of Trustees approved the Primary Care Health Infrastructure Plan. A document in which they are defined, according to healthcare criteria and after listening to the health areas, which must be the priority investments for Sergas in new health centres or in reforms that must be carried out in the coming years. In addition, a planning and transparency exercise has been transferred to all the municipalities involved and even the document is publicly accessible, as it is available on the board's website for the entire citizenship. Truth and transparency. Of course, this initiative stemmed all the unfounded criticisms of those who used to oppose us, which repeated — even if not true — that the works were only done in the Town Councils of the People's Party, that the promises of works were the same each year or that Sergas ignored the councils that needed works. Now, all the municipalities in Galicia, they have the political color they have, they know whether or not they're looking at a health work in the next few years and they know the surface they need, and they can therefore go and work on getting a parcel to give it to Junta. This plan was approved in three phases: a zero phase, where there were projects that had already begun prior to the plan and which have not stopped moving in these six months. In other words, the works of the CIS Olimpia Valencia de Vigo, the architectural projects of the CIS de Ourense and the health centers of Antas de Ulla and Agondo, and the projects of the new health centers of the Street and Vilagaría de Arousa, have been published. But after this zero phase there were phases one and two, priority actions for the Union and on which the municipalities should respond in order to get started. [[Murmurs.]] We know that in these months there have been many managements of the centres envisaged in these phases, and that is why, today, Counsellor, from the People's Group, we want to ask you: what forecasts does the Galician Union have in relation to the development of the Primary Care Health Infrastructure Plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Answer from the Health Counsellor, Mr. Julio García Comesaña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u218	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Friend, you will actually be six months old since the Board of Trustees approved this Primary Care Infrastructure Plan. And from the German Government, we believe that the expectations we had in their elaboration are being met. It's allowing the Autonomous Administration to prioritize and better direct its investments, always with the information and consensus of the health areas, and it's also allowing local governments to act knowing the expectation of the Union for its municipalities. In November of last year, I sent letters to all mayors and mayors who had new centers contemplated in phase one and two, because, as you said, phase zero was already in progress, making us available to our technical staff to evaluate those plots that they offered us. We can make sure that the technical staff of the Health Council visited all the municipalities that requested it. In this way, there were nearly twenty visits to evaluate the plots offered for solutions. And right now we're acting at the pace the municipalities are advancing. We have signed the first agreement of that phase one, that of Boboras, where the county has accelerated the expropriation of the plot, and we have in processing the conventions of Mills and Girls, where it has also advanced in procurement procedures. And in those municipalities where the plot is identified — but the municipality must initiate urban or expropriatory procedures — we will sign protocols to provide them with coverage. The proposals for protocols are already referred to the municipalities of Ribadeo, The Carballiño, Malpica de Bergantiños, Teo or Meis, which we signed this very morning to move forward in the processing of the plots proposed by these municipalities, which we have already identified and agreed upon. As far as the reforms are concerned, we are going to start immediately those that are internal and that are not affected by urban aspects. It is already entrusted to the Galaga Infrastructure Agency the work of the centre of the Miracle, in Lugo, and we are already managing the work in Culleredo. On the other hand, where they have urban impact, we're also arbitrating solutions. We signed a protocol in Moraña to process an urban modification that allows for enlargement, we proposed that same solution to the Rosal Town Hall and the King's Hill Town Hall we will sign the assignment commitment of an attached parcel to commit the work. So I think that counting on this plan for several years is allowing all administrations to plan better and be more effective. Nothing else, for the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u219	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u220	Thank you very much, Counselor. I think it's very important what you just told us to demonstrate how Joina works. When the council is interested, the government always responds and always offers technical and rigorous work. When local administration is agitating the procedures and finding the plots, Junta is doing technical studies and signing the legal instruments so that we can begin these processes of assignment and construction. You talked about twenty plot visits and the plan looks between phase one and two about forty. So, while you're still discounting some plot — which might already be identified earlier or some reform work that doesn't need land — of course there must be some municipalities that, at this time, have not yet requested a visit. We would like to know, on this second occasion, what these municipalities are, because of course, it would be very paradoxical for some to be governed precisely by those who say they care so much about public health, until they work and manage. Those who even when they don't cooperate question the work of others and have something to criticize. [[Applause]] Since 2009, Junta has invested one hundred and twenty million euros in nearly one hundred sanitary works and are now running my city's CIS, in Lugo, another in Lalin, and reforms in Arnoia and Ribadavia. And it's just begun an expansion of four million euros in the Porriño health center. Well, there he had to go the Socialist Party to say that this center was made thanks to the next generation fund that Pedro Sánchez had achieved and that they said the PP didn't want it. Don't! What the PP didn't want was for those funds to be distributed by Pedro Sánchez to the discretion, to the finger and to no discretion, precisely so that the Socialist Party in Galicia could make a partisan speech, let alone when in addition, in this case — and I think that the counselor can clarify it — is not even true. So on this second shift, we'd like you to give us some information on the level of collaboration that you're finding in the municipalities to move forward with the projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u222	...of the infrastructure plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u223	Thank you. Close the question, the health advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u224	Thank you, President. Mrs. Friend, sometimes you'd have to aim until you're wrong. In fact, almost all sanitary works have European funding, either Feder or React. But the Socialist Party, with the rigor that characterizes it, at times, was to mark precisely one of the few works that does not have it. I read to you the resolution of the Directorate-General for Economic Resources of the Galego Health Service, which announces the formalization of the recruitment of the reform and extension of the Porriño health centre — of course, after a public contest of both the expansion and work project, which includes the functional plan and which appears to be not known — and in paragraph 8 it states: "Information about whether the contract is related to a draft programme financed with funds from the European Union". The answer is "no." [[Applause]] As far as you're concerned, I have to say that all the mayors and mayors who have taken an interest in the plan are having a good level of collaboration. We had some difficult beginning with the mayors of the BNG, where we proposed enlargement, and they asked for a new center; and, vice versa, where we proposed a new center and they asked for enlargement. But the truth is, after we sit with them, things are well-directed and we work properly. This is the case — as I said — in the municipalities that were interested in the plan, but they would be surprised to know — like me — that they are not all. There are councils that, after six months of receiving that letter — which I refer to in the first part of the question, in which it was pointed out that the Union wanted to invest in public health — have not yet given an answer. It's surprising because it also coincides — as you suggested — with those municipalities that say they care so much about health. For example, the mayor of the Grove. We told him in writing that we needed a plot, we'll repeat it by letter a little while ago, and we still don't know anything. The Mayor of Lugo, who did not respond to the request for a plot for the new Sacred Heart health centre, but not even a proposal for an agreement for the reform of the Miracle Health Centre, which, as we said before, is already in progress. The mayor of Cedeira, who had asked us for a meeting before the plan — and even the Socialist Party had brought here an initiative, which was unanimously approved for the reform of the centre — has not yet given any news to start that reform. And we don't know anything about the Mayor of Fistra, the Mayor of Allariz or the Mayor of Ferrol, to whom we proposed the construction of a new centre in the neighborhood of San Juan, but it must not be particularly interesting to him. And allow me to make a special mention of the Morrazo district, especially the Town Councils of Cangas and Moaña. They go to the weekly demonstration because of the bad situation of their health infrastructure, but they've been deliberately crippling investments of more than 10 million euros of infrastructure that Junta wants to do at Morrazo and these local governments don't let him. [[Murmurs.]] The mayor of Cangas resists giving in to the land to make an integral health centre like the ones being done in Lugo and Lalin, and now he wants to submit the functional plan to neighbouring allegations. And the mayor of Moaña continues without yielding the plot, while the Board has already finished the basic and constructive project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u225	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. Time's up. Question by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Marina Ortega Otero, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadlines for the recovery of the public health system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u226	Question by Mr. Julio Torrado of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u227	Thank you, President. I was about to ask for support for the last question they asked the councillor now. Until the councilman applauded the question, he wondered how it was. This is fabulous! In any case, about the explanations given, not a small excuse... I think the next one's familiar with it. [[Laughter]] Mr. Counsellor, after all this is so good that he told you, he will surely be able to blame the mayors and the mayors so bad, the people who manifest themselves... Oh! What a disaster they're manifesting, they shouldn't have a right! On these statements, Sergas admits that Greek health will take at least a year to recover from the pandemic — a year from now, not a year from the beginning of the pandemic. That is to say — to translate it — they think that until 2023 we will not have a level of assistance as we had prepandemic. It's a lack of ambition and a worrying conformism, at least for us, from our point of view, and we wonder why. The truth is, they have recovered the full — as it were in some way — football stadiums, bars, churches, but not health. It must be that health — according to this government — is the last of the corners that deserves the effort to recover the pre-pandamy level. We thought it should be the first one. The truth is, sometimes we disagree so much that we even have contradictory positions. It is also true that it is very difficult with a government that invests less than most communities in euros per inhabitant in health care or especially in primary care. As they assume, we are Spain's second autonomous community that has a lower percentage of primary care dedicated to its health budget, 11.6%. The fact is that it is also difficult for us to have that assistance capacity with ninety-seven hundred and six professionals less in Primary Care — as the budgets say — than in 2009. And besides, it's very difficult with a government that renounces real transformations: packaging big plans, putting on fantastic ties and starting to count euros for the budgeting of plans, but they're always the same plans changed by name, they're the same euros as they don't spend, they end up spending things. That's right, with European funds like health centres, which are spent on European funds that the PP is going to say he doesn't want to, but he calls them here doing his work. [[Applause]] In any case, Counselor, you claim that they will not specifically retrieve waiting lists to pre-pandamy levels. Levels pre-pandamy that, by the way — you're sure you'll know and if you're not sure you can take it, but I'm sure you know — the Advisory Council has already said that they were called — the Advisory Council bothers you with a curse — and that you cheated on the waiting list account. But there are autonomous communities to the extent of June—which is when you can measure, because you now give less information on the waiting list than before, comparing June 2019 with June 2021—which improved on your waiting lists. Asturias, Extremadura, Canary Islands, Rioja and Balearics have fewer days for the first consultation. Galicia doesn't, Galicia has more. Why so much conformism, Counselor? Why is there such a lack of ambition in his direction or in his counseling?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u228	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u229	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, in the health system we are logically adapting to the different moments of the pandemic. In relation to primary care, the combination of face-to-face care with the telephone care system allowed the patient to maintain assistance that, as time went by, would move towards greater presence in the centers and towards greater accessibility of citizens, until he reached the current situation in which the patient freely chooses between face-to-face care and telephone care. In the hospital area, in Galicia, we adapt our hospital centers to the progress of the virus, providing more means with advance shopping, as well as with more staff. Between December 2019 and December 2021, there were 3,089 more people throughout the Greek health system; almost as many as ten additional county hospitals. During the pandemic, Galicia became a single hospital, in order to ensure the best care for all patients, using resources — especially those of critical units — in the best way, so that the demand of foster patients and non-covid patients could be met. But the fact is that, in spite of all, during the worst months of the pandemic it was necessary to suspend the non-emergency activity, and that is why, in 2021, the recovery plan for the assistance activity was set up, with 15 million euros, in order to address that activity, which had remained pending. The plan made it possible to advance and carry out extraordinary activity. In this way, and if we refer to the data offered by the Ministry — to which you referred — of the last month of June 2021, the percentage of patients who have been waiting for more than six months for surgical intervention in Galicia is 5.5%. No doubt too many, but the Spanish average is 18.95%; that is, almost four times more. In communities that are examples of management for you -- as you just said right now -- like Aragon, 27.2%; in Catalonia, 26.1%; and in Castile-A Mancha, 36.6%. Now I say what you mentioned. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In consultations, the same thing that in Galicia was 1.32, in Asturias — which you referred to that efficient management — is 3.75, that is, three times more, Mr. Torrado. It's data from the Ministry of June 2021. But, look, if we were to comply with the objective of regaining socialist normality, we would have finished. The average wait for surgical interventions in June 2008 was 71.5 days and in June 2021, in the middle of the pandemic, 70.2 days. Wait for the mid-term consultations — which you like consultations — in June 2008, 60.8; and in the middle of the pandemic, in June 2021, 42.6. And if we go to the 2019 socialist normality, while Galicia was able to get off the 60 days of half-surgical waiting, for the PSOE they were 135 days normal in Castela-A Mancha, 94 in Aragon or 84 in its beloved Asturias. We didn't get to that even after the pandemic. That's why, Mr. Torrado, we do not aspire to regain their socialist normality. What we aspire to is to re-acquire the best historical data on waiting levels, which were those of the year 2019, after the years of improving public health with a government of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u230	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u231	Thank you, President. I'm going to get into the data right now, but there's a difference with the autonomous communities, and the rest of them tell the truth about the waiting lists, and this one, no. And that's very easy, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Because look, Counselor, I'm going to tell you -- there seems to be some complaints in the popular stands. I'll explain something that I suppose you'll all know. You know that if you go to a hospital asking for an appointment, they don't usually go out with an appointment on a particular day. You can tell me you do, but you know you don't. What's going on? That you go out with a "we'll call you." And if it takes you six months to call him, and when you give him the appointment, it's for within a month, a little smart person like us would say, "I waited seven months." But how much does it count for this Sergas? A month. And, of course, that's very hard to make accounts, so it's very hard to do accounts! By saying it's a lot easier: you lie to say that they do it well, but it's only when they lie, they get to the interviews and say what they said, and until 2023 they won't be able to recover the pre-pandamy levels. And that's the problem, that you assume this is normal and that people are foolish and you don't realize it. [[Applause]] Look, by setting an example, eh! "Almost two years of waiting on Sergas' waiting list." [[Mr. Torrado Quintela shows a document to the House.]] For example, hey! In this news, which is being developed, they talk about more cases. If you want it, Counselor — which is not necessary, because you know it — we choose any Galician hospital and ask the patients who are in the waiting room. We'll see that they all have a lot of expectations, in many cases more than six months. That's reality, but you can count on what you want. Besides, you explained to me very well what was done during the pandemic. I didn't ask him during the pandemic, which is good that he boasts, but we what we tell him is that you show a lack of absolute ambition, absolutely!; a tremendous conformism. In order to sell headlines they're already happy. What's the problem with all this, Counselor? That the pandemic, which was a problem for all, for this government was a good excuse. And so you can't manage health, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u232	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. To close the question, the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u233	Mr. Torrado, it is surprising that it is your group that accuses this government of fatalistic speech, when, month by month, you yourselves systematically discredit Greek health with half-truths or falsehoods like those you have just said here right now in parliamentary headquarters. He has just explained how the wait list delays are reported, what is done in the rest of the autonomous communities, and what is the mechanics that is also implemented by the Ministry, and that audits are carried out on a permanent basis. But well, there you are! But it's just that, in addition, we keep saying we're lying. Well, you never lie. Yes, of course, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's just that, besides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u234	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u235	...this week we had to witness as your leader, Mr. Formoso, qualified the primary care that lends to our public health of "nefary." I was recently in the bridge health center, and the truth is, I've come with a very good impression of professionals and patients; it must have been that he hasn't stepped on it for a long time. I believe, Mr. Torrado, that these statements are missing about the more than 10,000 professionals working in our health centres. He said primary care was reduced to a telephone number. I'm going to give you a couple of real figures, too, Mr. Torrado, like the others I gave you, and then you'll say we lied. Look, the primary family medicine staff attended over 170,000 presence appointments last week, and in the course of the year — these four months — primary care has attended 2.4 million consultations in presence; that is, almost as if every Welshman in these months had been in the health center. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you think this is bad attention, I don't know what you think of anything else. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, your question, Mr. Torrado,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u236	Please forgive me a moment, Counselor. Mr. Torado, it's a very ugly effect, besides being where you are, that you're interrupting the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u237	We're used to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u238	Time later I'll make it up to you, no problem at all. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't think that should be done. My duty is to protect who is in the use of the word. Yes, to you and to these, to all of you. [[Murmurs.]] But what you can't do is what you're doing, and that's why I ask you, please, not to be there... because I interrupt your speech. [[Protests.]] If I know what it's like, that I've been...! [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But please, now you have to listen. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have to listen. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela: But answer me!]] Then talk to him whatever you want, but now you have to listen to the answer. Yes, yes, please. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u239	This is customary, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] As I said, we really want to go back to the historical data of 2019. I, Mr. Torrado, would recommend that you listen to the interview of the manager of Sergas that you refer to in your question, but that you have listened to her in full and, perhaps, given a moment. What the manager of Sergas asks is when he believes that we can return to Galicia to historical data — I have just referred to the data with the socialist normality of 2010-2018 and those of 2019 itself — from a waiting list. And Sergas' manager says that probably that "historical" data -- I mean again -- can be achieved by 2023. That is not a problem of ambition, a problem of not managing public health well, but of wanting to recover the activity that has ceased to take place in these two years — because some, unfortunately, we have had to stop doing so — and of returning to these historical data, which, as I said, never in the history of the Galician Health Service had been achieved in Galicia or with previous socialist governments or even in the development of the activity itself in recent years, and of course, they are far superior to all the data that with homogeneous, transparent and normative criteria are used throughout the Spanish public health system, than you do not seem to have much information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the purpose of aid for investments in small and medium-sized industries for the processing of fishery and aquaculture products and the budget for the year 2022
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u241	You have a word for Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u242	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counselor, thank you for being here today and for answering my question. The people present in this House, with you in mind, we know that all sectors related to the sea in Galicia are a prime factor for the socio-economic development of our community. For this reason, these sectors need to make the most of the common strategic framework funds in order to achieve the new challenges that arise in it, and in this context both the extractive sector and the transformer need all the possibilities that their instruments offer to be competitive, sustainable and environmentally friendly. To this end, the Council of the Sea Council, in its DDG of 28 December 2021, published the Order of Aid for Investments in Pemes for the Processing of Fisheries and Aquaculture Products, co-financed with the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EFMP), for the year 2022. Madam Counsellor, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your work and that of all your team, because in this parliamentary group we have a record that the autonomous body you are directing is striving to defend the area of the Greek Sea before all instances; even, whenever necessary, in front of the Central Government, which is working again and again to make life difficult for the people of the Sea of Galicia, whether for ignorance or — what is worse — for unselfishness. As proof of my words, I'm going to put two very recent examples. One: in the last Commission 8th, we had to agree on the absence of correcting a decree drafted from drought orders in Madrid, which seeks to regulate the uses of certain fishing gears, but shows an absolute ignorance of the reality of Greece and consequently derives from a serious prejudice to our fleet. And there you were defending the sector. And the restrictive report on the Coastal Law, which questions the presence of traditionally permitted activities, such as aquaculture, or the purification of sea products, as well as other buildings of social use on port land of autonomous competition, such as the port of Cambados, and there you are also defending the sector. This report gives reason to the complex sea industry, this Popular Parliamentary Group and yourself when we were so concerned about the development of the Back Law, while since the PSdEG bench if we were accused, over and over again, of alarmists. Returning to the Council of the Sea, which, as I say, knows whether it is concerned and whether it is concerned about the maritime-fishing sector in Galicia, we want to know what is the purpose of the aid for investments in fish processing and aquaculture products and its budget for the year 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento. Reply by the sea advisor, Mrs. Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u244	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Suárez, as you well said, in fact, last December 28th, the order of December 15th, 2021 was published in the CEO, a file that began to be processed as an advance of expenditure, in order to enable it to be available at the beginning of the year for the whole sector; a basis of order of aid in competitive competition arrangements for investments in small and medium-sized industries for processing of fishery products and aquaculture products. This kind of aid has been called up for many years, and in this period it has to do with the FEMP we started in 2016. From that time until 2021, a total of 283 projects have benefited, amounting to more than 72 million euros. With this initiative, we want to make the most of the funding opportunities available to the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund sector, which is why this aid has already been published for 2022 and 2023 with this multi-annual order which makes it easier for the processing industries to make their investments. As the DOG says, this order aims to establish the regulatory bases for the competitive competition scheme of aid for investment in small and medium-sized enterprises in the transformer sector. Aids have several purposes, including covering all those costs that mean energy saving or reducing the environmental impact that can generate these activities in the middle, including waste treatment; improving safety, hygiene, health and working conditions in these companies; also all those investments that help transform fish catches that cannot be intended for human consumption; also aid for the transformation of by-products obtained from the main processing activities, so that every time we can obtain products of greater added value; also for all the transformation of aquaculture products; and those that give rise to better products, better processes or even new processes and better management and organisational systems. These aids, as I say well, can benefit all small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in the processing of fishery products or aquaculture. They are multi-year aids, and the credit for this year 2022-2023 will be 19 million euros. I would also like to point out that this year, in 2022, 85 dossiers are already registered, which are promoting actions that involve an overall investment of 120 million euros and in which we are now starting proceedings so that projects are going to be a reality as soon as possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u245	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Suárez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u246	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer, and above all -- I repeat -- thank you very much for your work. These figures certainly show special support for this competitiveness of which we are talking about, and we are sure from this parliamentary group that, without that bet, neither the sector nor Galicia would be the same. It would not be the same as getting value added is one of the keys to work on. And it wouldn't be the same Galicia because, without that competitiveness, we wouldn't have record numbers of exports and sales. This sector has surpassed the pandemic and is re-emerged in positive numbers despite the many pitfalls that are set from other parties and governments: on the one hand, the legal insecurity on the coast and, on the other hand, the null support at this time of logistical crisis and fuel and energy prices. And what is worse: the lack of collaboration of certain groups in support of these lines that contribute to making this sector more competitive — which generates more than 20,000 jobs in Galicia. We just have to remember the amendments from some groups to this 2022 budget about the games that are going to support these aids; some wanted to withdraw 47% of the game, some only 60% of the game. Now everyone is asking for help and support, but reality is what it is. For this reason, at this crucial moment for the transformer sector, I want to know what the position of the Galician Union is in relation to the support that can be given to the sector to overcome the crisis. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u248	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Suárez, there is certainly one who preaches one thing and then does just the opposite. But we're going to follow in our own, which is what touches us. And our job is to continue to defend the processing industries of fishery products so that they get more and more added value. Because that added value, in the end, which represents also greater wealth for all Galicia. Look, right now we're focused on two or three fundamental goals. The first is to get the European Union to allow the new FEMPA to apply Article 26 also for aid to processing industries and not only those directly related to the fisheries sector. It seems, on a proposal from the Commission, that this will be possible; therefore, we hope that the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers — including the European Council — will come forward with this Commission proposal and the new operational programme will be adopted so that we can convene this aid line. In addition, since the Council — and I would like to thank the staff members for this — the resolution of all the files that are under way is being resolved as quickly as possible, and which will certainly provide liquidity to companies. And, on the other hand, we're very focused on all those lines of aid that are supposed to improve energy efficiency, since that, of course, will bring greater benefit to companies, which is what we're all looking for. I can tell you that, from 2016 to 2021, there have been 89 projects that have benefited from these energy improvements, in which we invested more than nine million euros. Finally, we believe in the sector, we believe it is important to enable all possible funding to continue to grow, and also, on our part, to provide all possible legal certainty so that all those who want to invest in Galicia in the development of this sea-industrial chain can do so. I'm the only one who asks the Government of the State not to be distracted, to help us keep growing. Because Galicia wants to continue to grow and its sector is also willing to continue to grow if it is not subject to legal obstacles as it is currently happening with proposals coming out of the Ministry of Ecological Transition. But us, ours. We will continue to work, as we have always done, on the defense of all links in the sea-industry chain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u249	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Teresa Egerique Mosquera and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the opinion of Xunta de Galicia regarding the possibility of moving to the national headquarters of the Spanish Institute of Oceanography and of dividing it between Cantabria and Murcia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u250	You have the floor to Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u251	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mrs. Quintana. Some Members of the Socialist Party say that we have to make politics, which is what we've seen here. Sometimes they also give us ethics lessons, but it turns out that later the Socialist Party ministers use "scientific and technical" criteria — from them, and you know why? — to aggravate and marginalize Galicia and to insult — I believe — scientists working at the Spanish Oceanographic Institute in Coruña and Vigo. Because they really apply those criteria to take us from Galicia that institute. That's what they say, Counselor, but you know how I am and how many authorized people have written and spoken in the press these days that these scientific and technical criteria are not so, but that they are political criteria of the Socialist Party. These are the political criteria that a former minister, Pedro Duque, employed three years ago when he integrated the Oceanographic Institute into the CSIC. That led to the resignation of the then head of the Oceanographic Institute in Vigo, and that also lit up all the alarms. All but one: that of the Socialist Party of Galicia and that of the Socialist Party of Vigo, who practiced the technique of smoking herring, of which we spoke this morning, Mr. Puy, and which, in truth, reminded me of a Greek politician. I was reminded by a politician — they will allow me the simile, with all due respect — that is the herring smoked par excellence. Because, really, that means you're covering up with other people's fears. That person, who pretends to be mayor of mayors, to defend all mayors of Spain, so much so defends them that he forgets their mayorship, their city, the city of Vigo. You really have to be very grateful for your counterparts in Cartagena and Santander, because what we have here in Galicia is going to send you directly to Cartagena and Santander. Well, Mrs. Quintana, it's the technique of the smoked herring: if the Government of Sánchez to Vigo leaves with the car's PERTE, because you're light; if you refuse the high voltage line, lights; if the Board wants to invest in Vigo, lights; if you're going to take years of research from the Spanish Oceanographic Institute, lights. And it stays so wide. And now, in addition, he's a defender of the Oceanographic Institute! [[Murmurs.]] The Socialist Party of Galicia has at this time practiced, in these three years, the technique of smoked herring, because they did nothing to defend that the headquarters of the Oceanographic Institute had remained in Galicia. And I think, Mrs. Quintana, this is an insult. You know the position of this Parliament, of the three groups, in an institutional statement that we all agree on — which was not possible in the Vigo Council, because the Vigo Socialist Party did not want to reach an agreement with the three groups, did not want to come to an agreement and make an institutional declaration! So I think that's a personal defense. You know our position. We want that high school not to move out of here. But today's question is, what does the Galician board think about whether this institute can be dismantled and not taken into account in Galicia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, look, as you well know, and now that you have just mentioned, the Council of Galicia has been warning the central government of the need to recover the potential of the Spanish Oceanography Institute, to clean up its accounts to facilitate the work of its professionals and that they can actually provide a proper service in the study of the marine environment. This situation has already been reported within IEO's board of directors in April 2019. I will repeat this request in November 2020 and I wanted to do special work on the drift that the Institute was carrying and, in particular, on the difficulties of having personal investigators. In view of the problems that have arisen, I proceeded to send two letters in June 2020, one to the Minister Planas and another to the then Minister of Science, Pedro Duque, explaining this concern. Even the President of the Board specifically addressed the President of the Central Executive for this matter in July 2020, and made a special effort to help and emphasize the collaboration of our departments related to this matter to contribute to improving the IEO's course. It should also be noted that this request was made explicitly again on 14 October 2020 by a letter which I sent to you, along with other members of the board of directors of the IEO, the former minister Duke, in which we asked the Central Government not to dismantle the IEO and we also rejected the decision of integral at the Higher Council of Scientific Research. This is a request that we made from the very first moment and that we repeat again the hand of the fishing sector, since we all share this great concern. We have been in constant contact also with the directions of the two centres located in Galicia — the one in Vigo and the one in the Coruña — to evaluate their opinion, to see what their prospects were for the future and, ultimately, issues that have been taking place for many years to coordinate all research actions and measures in this field. The autonomous Government has fulfilled the mandate of the Galician Parliament and has elected the State the proposals adopted by this House on this matter, so that in December 2020 we transferred to the central executive a non-legislative proposal with the request of Parliament to initiate the procedure for the transfer of competences — as before the IEO's organisational repair and repair — of all the economic and administrative management of the Spanish Oceanography Institute centres in Galicia and to become part of the structure of the Union. The State has ignored these requests and we see how their mismanagement is leading the body to a dramatic economic situation despite its integrality in the CSIC. However, he didn't have the slightest doubt that we're going to continue working on the same line of defense of the interests of this organism in Galicia, because it's strategic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u254	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u255	...in the development of marine research.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u256	Thank you. Mrs. Egerique's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u257	Mrs. Quintana, it's time and you're going to give her reason once more. You've just spoken now that you've been working for more than three years and trying not to get to this outcome. The Socialist Party says the board was silent. The truth is, it's very curious to say that. With so much ministry, sometimes I also think it's very difficult to deal with people and others, because in these three years you no longer know who has the competences of what and who decides what. What happens is, to justify his activity, he always ends everything in the same, which is to put a goal in Galicia and make a damage always to Galicia. These scientific and technical criteria, if they are so — and I say, as I said before, that I am an insult to scientists and researchers who have been working for years in the Coruña and Vigo, who have been working for years, in addition to the service of fishing and the Galician industry, Spain and Europe — if so, have a lot of weight, Mrs. Quintana. They have a lot of weight because, look, a first criterion is that the place of residence of the current head of aquaculture of the IEO is Murcia. I imagine: "Hey, minister! Look, I live in Murcia and I'm really glad to have the headquarters here" —because I'm in charge in Murcia. Another second criterion of weight is that the person responsible for IEO fishing lives in Santander. This conversation I can imagine better between Miguel Ángel Revilla and Abel Caballero, than many who saw the program of El antiguero can imagine how they would talk: "Hey, Abel, send me here the Institute, that you already have Christmas!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] Allow me the irony, Mrs. Quintana, allow me the irony, but this is how it is. That's it! You just need to finish sending him a few anchors; because they frive with politics and they're frivolating with a lot of subjects that are of gravity right now and they're very important to Galicia. He's at stake losing years of experience and losing all that value we have of research in the Coruña centers, and especially in the center of Vigo, in the IEO. Therefore, Mrs. Quintana, as I say, allow me irony. We can't afford this coat of hair and I wanted to ask you what consequences this dismantling of the IEO could have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u258	Close the question by the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Egerique, look, to me the truth is, it's sad to see what's going on with the Spanish Institute of Oceanography. And the first thing I would like in this reply is to transfer to all researchers at the Spanish Institute of Oceanography our gratitude for the effort and the work they are doing in order to give the Ministry the best possible advice, which has to defend these... [[Applause]] I honestly already know that you were ironing when you did your intervention. But the truth is that it's the only thing we can do with these news reports that are coming out in the media, and that unfortunately not even the directors of the centers themselves know what they're responding to. I very doubt that there is no scientific-technical criterion to recommend making this comment that Mrs. Minister made on a visit to the Spanish Oceanography Institute located in Cantabria. The first thing you need to know is that Spain is the first fishing power at European level and that, in order to remain a fishing power at European level, we need the best possible scientific advice to defend the interests of a sector that gives both Spain and Europe. If we want to have a good Spanish Institute of Oceanography, what we have to give the researchers enough strength to be able to work with courage and not so that they are pending if "I'm going to Cantabria today, today I'm going to Galicia or tomorrow I'm going to Murcia; whether I depend on CSIC or tomorrow I don't know very well what." The researchers need to be clear about their projects, to make clear who their interests are, and not to be alert to what might happen at the administrative level. [[Murmurs.]] So the first thing we have to do -- and I'm ready, and so I've done it for three years now -- is, let's sit down, see what are the difficulties the Spanish Institute of Oceanography has and vote all the autonomous communities that have fishing interests, to give all the best of us so that this institute can continue to be great. And if it is necessary to pass our powers, we will, of course, assume our powers. But we will assume them by coordinating the research, as it has always been done, with all the headquarters in all the communities that have sea. Because the Spanish Oceanography Institute is a national advisory body and it must continue to be. And so what we ask of the Ministry is that you think of researchers, you give them security so that they may continue to have a desire to work in these fields of research, and you don't suppose for them a little less likely to be able to work in technical counseling against those who are dedicated to pure and hard research. Counselling work is necessary, it is essential. And that's why we understand that all those technicians, biologists, chemists or physicists who want to work in the knowledge of the marine environment must be able to do it with the same forces and the same potentialities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u260	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u261	...that those who devote themselves to another kind of research.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u262	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u263	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2022-04-27-DSPG079.u264	Before we finish the whole thing, I'd like to comment that, as they could be watching, we're changing some things. We're changing because we also have to be fulfilling. The other day there was a meeting of the Speaker's Board and, taking into account the measures that, by the theme of the pandemic, are being implemented, this is perfectly articulated. I also thank the spokespersons for their collaboration at the meeting we had before the recommendations. And I am also grateful that these recommendations that we suggest, therefore, are in some way taken into account. These are recommendations, but I am grateful that you take them into account — especially, in this case, as a doctor too —. And on that line I think it's already coming — after consulting it — that it is no longer followed by the theme of the rostrum — disinfecting and cleaning. Because it actually seems that this is now a secondary aspect. Then in the next rounds we won't have this service anymore. But I would like from here to thank you for the work you've done all this time—always having this forum operating at times even more difficult—the cleaning service workers, who have been taking care of all the time so that we could do the best work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's over. Nothing more and good night.
