ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35418	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notification or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the World Family Day. There is one proverb in our people that says that a woman is a pillar of the family, so my parliamentary question on today will be addressed to the Ministry that should protect women's workers' rights, because that women would be a pillar of the family they must have the right to work with dignity and make a fair living. So, my parliamentary question is addressed to the Minister of Labour, Employment for Combat and Social Affairs, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, and as far as the media has been saying, therefore, it is already a well-known fact, although the Ministry seems to be silent, and it concerns the company "Kezen" in Smederev, where most women workers work. Of the 300 employees, there are 280 women, who have been on strike over the past six months due to unpaid wages and unpaid overtime. This resulted in the payment of the overtime work and backlogs. However, workers were also disciplined. Seven workers have been fired so far in the form of an agreement to terminate their labour contracts, three workers who have been intimidated have agreed to an agreement, but four workers do not agree. Meanwhile, there was also a spontaneous union organisation, more than half of the workers came to the "Sloga" union. However, it seems that it has just set off an alarm with the employer and that what is happening throughout Serbia is that workers are disciplined, intimidated and punished because they seek their labour rights, decent working conditions and because they strike. As Minister Djordjevic himself announced the adoption of the new Strike Act, a public debate was launched, not in full intensity. I remind you that the Strike Act has been incentivising in Serbia since 1996, and much has changed in the labour market and labour market, so my question has been addressed to the minister - has it been informed, since it is not advertised in this particular case on the information that I have provided, will it encourage the labour inspection to carry out, so to speak, see, to talk to workers? The workers went to talk to the mayor of Smedereva, but it is not so far from Belgrade that the ministry would not be informed and I am sure it has information. Will the minister appeal to respect the provisions of Article 14 of the Strike Act, which says that workers cannot be fired from work because of organisation or participation in the strike? So I'm asking for information on this case. I would like to ask Mr. Djordjevic a second question, regarding the outrageous case of Danka Simic, who is because her husband participated in the union organization, also because of outstanding earnings, transferred from the lab site, first of all to the cleaning woman's work, and then the assistant workers at the quarry? So we're also saying this, I see that my colleagues from the ruling coalition have no patience or to listen to these five minutes about the position of workers in Serbia, and you can think of both ten-hour and twelve-hour and fourteen-hour overtime in Serbia, and you have no patience to listen to for five minutes, in respect of this information that is important to hear in the Serbian Parliament. So, will Minister Djordjevic support the findings of the Equality Commissioners, who established violations of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of this said Runka, Danka, Simic, in Ravnaja in Mali Zvornik and will co-operate with her and will co-operate with the management and owners of this company in order for this woman's labour and human rights to be respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35420	Thank you, colleague Vukomanovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35421	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, my question is directed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, like all well-intentioned people in Serbia, and we belong to such people, at least in the SP parliamentary group, although we found when we read one large exposure that we disagreed on many things in the field of economic policy, point five attracted our attention and we said – this really is not bad ideas. Chapter five deals with digitization. We read this in more detail, and in Part Four of Chapter Five, we have one area called Digital Business. In an unequivocally unequivocal way, our country's priorities, during at least this existing government, are listed in various areas of digital business, their potential in the private sector is analysed, innovative potential, productivity growth potential, as it affects the business environment. In that area, I, as well as my colleagues, couldn't disagree that these were very good thoughts and if they were given some more meat, that would be really good. What's the problem? Recently, we had one, so to speak, strike a particular profession in Belgrade and one of the government's ministers, specifically the minister in charge of construction, traffic, infrastructure, said a statement – if those who strike do not want an innovative firm as a competitor on the market, there will be no and there is no reason to worry. It's a little contradictory to me, and I'm not really good at connecting it to an exposé that has one good part, that fifth part. How, then, do we treat innovators, and innovators in the Republic of Serbia? To Serbian firms that have infiltrated innovation, sold in the countries of the region, what message are we sending them? We all know that innovation is a prerequisite for productivity growth, job creation, investment. Given the European Bank's report on reconstruction and development, which says Serbia is nowhere near the necessary level of investment so that it can have growth rates of four to five per cent in continuity and are the biggest problem, not the lack of foreign investment but domestic ones. What kind of message do we send by saying a domestic innovative company doesn't have to exist because it's innovated, but traditional branches don't like it? Also, when we have a modern and traditional conflict in the economy, will we solve such conflicts by, for example, eliminating e-mail? Ten years ago, the people of the Post Office were on strike, thank God they didn't, they knew what progress was, or we're gonna try to give the stimulant to the traditional industries modernize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35422	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35423	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days we are witnessing that farmers across Serbia have been exposed, i.e. that very big damage has taken place on their agricultural goods, property caused by the city. As for who knows which way, both in previous years and in this year, farmers face the fact that the state does not have an effective defence system against the town of farmers in the Republic of Serbia, that is, their agricultural goods, nuts, fruits, vegetables and anything else. So, I remind you that agriculture in Serbia today lives over a million and a half people and that small agricultural family holdings are the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia today, and that on the other hand the state does not recognise this and the smallest appropriations from the budget are precisely related to the area of agriculture and they are below the Budget Law, so below 5%, as far as the law provides. Therefore, today our farmers feel the results of this policy, if it is an area of protection from the city, because we neither have enough shooters, nor have enough missiles, nor have we effective protection from the city. While the city protection system in EU countries is efficient and over 60% of its performance, in Serbia, 20% of the efficiency of protecting our defence system from the city is below. So we can say that farmers are left to pray to God that the city does not fall because the state cannot react. So we don't have enough resources in the budget for missiles, nor do we have enough shooters. I ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Agriculture and the Director of the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute – how many shooters do we have in the Republic of Serbia at the moment who have signed temporary and occasional contracts to carry out these operations, how many active anti-urban stations? How many people aren't active because there are no shooters? How many shooters broke their contracts because you predicted that they should work for 4,000 dinars a month, 24-hour duty, seven days a week, and so on for six months? The labour law has defined that temporary and occasional contracts cannot last longer than 120 days. You here are breaking the law that you adopted yourself and binding contracts to six months with anti-urban shooters and giving them a profit of 4,000 dinars per month, and then making local self-governments in Serbia break the law and that they finance additional shooters from the budget of local self-government units, which is also not in line with the law. So we don't have an absolutely efficient, anywhere near an effective city protection system in the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Law on Defence against the City has defined that compensation for anti-building shooters can be maximum 20% of the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, if it is 400 euros, so 80 euros can be maximum, and they do not receive that maximum, but receive 4,000 dinars or 35 euros per month for the job to be done. So now we have to wonder how this town killed raspberries in Valjevo, Ivanjica, Požega, killing all over the forest, all over Vojvodina, orchards? We say, "How does that happen?" It happens because people don't want to work for 4,000 dinars and because we don't have enough rockets, but they have to buy municipalities in Serbia. I am one of the presidents of the municipality who received a criminal report from the state auditor because I bought a hundred anti-urban missiles from the local budget, because they told me – you have no right to buy it because it is within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. I am asking the prime minister's question, therefore, by April 1st of the year, the government must receive a report on the preparation of the city's defence and start a new season on 15 April. The question is: did the government adopt reports submitted by the Republic hydrometeorological institute, if it submitted by April 1st of the current year and has the city's defence plan been adopted in 2018? If not, I am really asking a question – are the prime ministers more important gay paintings than farmers and agriculture in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35424	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35425	Thank you. First of all, I want to congratulate my fellow Members of the people, the citizens of Serbia and all the Serbs around the world on the World Family Day. I want it to be a family holiday in Serbia every day and Serbia to become a friend of the family. Another big holiday today is the 170th anniversary of the creation of the Serbian Vojvodina. Today 170 years ago, the Mayan Assembly was held, where Serbs from Hungary declared Serbia's Vojvodina. Seventy years later, another jubilee -- 100 years since Matika's accession to Serbia. So this year 2018 brings great jubilee to the Serbian people and citizens, and today, here, we mark 170 years of creation of the Serbian Vojvodina. In that sense, I would like to welcome all the activities that the governments of Serbia and our provinces of Vojvodina are taking in this regard, but I have a question for the governments of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, for the ministries of the state and the provinces of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture – whether and when a more detailed study of the creation of the Serbian Vojvodina and the accession of the Matika of Serbia will be included in the teaching programme, because we are all witnesses that today we are little aware of it. I don't agree that the Mayan Assembly and the Serbian Vojvodina are just a holiday of Vojvodina. It's a holiday for all Serbian citizens and we've all been getting information about it through our education. It's okay to have movies, shows, to mark it with an appropriate ceremony, but those simple generations have to study to remember their history in a decent way. I agree that it is the past, but it is very important to understand the present and to react resolutely in this very sensitive political moment. When Serbian citizens become aware of what we received 170 years ago by creating Serbia's Vojvodina and a hundred years ago by joining Serbia and how important it was for the preservation of our national identity, I am sure that at this point, all Serbian citizens will understand how much unity we need now to prevent the secession of our southern province, to prevent the signing of a binding legal agreement, to prevent guilt from being issued and the signing of a legally binding agreement with the quasi state of Kosovo, and under EU pressure, in order to transfer the fraud to the people, I do not know, by some false referendum or some other kind of pressure. So we know that at this point, the only people who can be responsible for the betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija are the signatories of the Brussels Agreement, current Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic and the current president of the Serbian state, as well as Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. I will return to today's jubilee of the May Assembly and the declaration of Serbia's Vojvodina, as well as that continuity of association with Serbia, where all nations who are not Serbs or not Slovenians are guaranteed every right to preserve their national being in the way they want it. That was a promise to them 100 years ago, and today, on this day, we remind ourselves that this promise was fully fulfilled by them. I will end with the words of Duke Stevan Šupljik, who spoke at his death, waiting for the help of 3,000 Serbs from other parts. "Let Europe see, let the whole world see the brother's help." So that's how we should treat both the Serbs in Montenegro and the Serbs in occupied Kosovo and Metohija and wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35426	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are so many questions in this country that ask for answers, that it is actually enough for us to get to know the established agenda of the current session and thus open some questions. With regard to the first item of the agenda, I ask the President of the Republic, which concerns special conditions for building apartments for security services that they could buy apartments of 500 euros per square – why would only security forces be privileged? I don't think they should be disqualified, I know they're in a difficult situation, but why should they be the only ones who are privileged? In particular, considering that we rightly laminate every day as young people leave this country, would that not be one of the encouraging measures to allow them to buy apartments at that advantageous price? I ask this question to the President of the Republic because, in its capacity as Prime Minister in early May 2014, he published and all the daily papers on the front pages conveyed his promise that apartments of 380 euros per square square will be built and the question is – on what basis has he made such a promise, and how has it been stated today, that it refers only to security forces and also to a higher price? Furthermore, for example, points 4 and 5 of road traffic law, I ask the Minister for Infrastructure. In connection with the construction of the Obrenovac-Ljig section, the minister promised that the stock would be completed in November last year and, behold, it is now in mid-May, it is not yet completed. There is some possibility that it will be completed by the end of the year, but I ask the minister to explain why she is so late and how could she make such an unreal promise? Many of these unreal promises, which in some ways come down to that old saying – promises of insane joy, but the crown of all and this agenda is point 21, according to which the president of the Assembly proposes a decision on the education of the commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing in health and the environment, with special reference to the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. I understand that citizens are concerned, that there is fear and, of course, I agree with the president that it is necessary for them to get the truth about that data, that we are obliged to deliver the truth to them. However, it is absolutely not a political job. It is the sole job of science and scientists – nuclear physicists, chemists, possibly radiologists or epidemiologists. Is this not how the work of the Institute of Nuclear Science "Vinca", which employs 311 doctors of science and 220 PhDs, means over 500 scientists, as well as the Agency for Protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security, for which I do not know how many employees there are, but is the chairman of the board of directors of the Assembly? So I ask the Institute of "Vinca" and the ionizing radiation protection agency – did it affect NATO's health in 1999? Because they're obliged to give us that answer. Secondly, for 32 years, we haven't had any data on the consequences of Chernobyl disaster and the question is, did the Chernobyl disaster affect our people's health to what extent? And the third question to which I demand an answer from the Institute and the Agency is – were there greater consequences to Chernobyl disaster and today were they from NATO bombing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35428	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35429	Just one more sentence. It is dangerous for the government to interfere with freedom of the market, in the media, in the judiciary, but the most dangerous thing is when the government tries to question science.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35430	Thank you, colleague Micic. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35431	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to point out the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. On 10 May of this year, a group of former and current Zlatara plant workers operating under RTB Bor, as well as current and former security workers, were arrested with an accusation that, in the period from 2014 to 2017, they had unlawfully alienated a certain amount of gold that had been in certain technological stages in the process of its production in anod mud, undefined and refined gold. These are facts issued in his statement by Serbia's MUP, on 11 May this year. Much earlier, there was a suspicion among RTB Bor workers and the citizens of Bor that some employees in the Zlatar plant were stealing gold and being enormously rich. It should be remembered that in the vicinity of Bora, illegal gold smelts were recently discovered, then a worker of Zlatara plant, who acquired certain properties in a short period of time, moved to another workplace, etc. In recent times, stories have spread through Bor and there have been doubts that some workers of the Zlatara plant have acquired great money, but nothing has been taken by responsible persons as a precaution. That gold is missing in the process of processing it during the last three years is indicated at meetings of the management body of Topionica and the refinement in which the work and drive of Zlatar, i.e. between 2015 and 2017. Clearly and unequivocally, these authorities indicated that certain quantities of the same were missing in the balance sheet of gold production. Also, media reported last year on a suspicious lack of gold in RTB Bor. On the suspicions raised by the authorities of the management of Topionica and the refinement, as well as the texts in the media, the management of RTB Bor has not responded. Workers who during this period pointed to the illogicality of the technology chain of gold production and its lack of it were moved to other, mostly mountainous and less paid jobs that had no touch points with the production of gold itself. In addition to the fact that gold was missing in the balance sheets, RTB Bor management did not take any action to prevent it, nor did it come to the fact that the amounts of gold were estranged. By doing so RTB Bor management has done great damage to RTB Bor whose interests under the law need to be protected. In particular, it should be noted that the gold balance is done for every technological stage of processing and that gold cannot be alienated over a long period of time without being noticed. It is also significant to note that the balance of production of gold, i.e. the ratio of the amount of gold that enters the process of processing and obtaining the amount of final gold in the levers, can be seen to be missing significant quantities of it. It is suspected that these quantities could not be estranged in the way the arrested workers did. The question arises: What about the remaining amount of gold that is missing? Is this arrest that should have happened before not just a mask to cover up some major robbery that took place under the auspices of RTB Bor management? We ask that the Serbian MUP provide us with information and its opinion on this case and make it clear that RTB management is headed by Blago Spaskovski from earlier on for the robbery of gold, and he has not responded and has he taken part in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35432	I thank my colleague, Mihajlovic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35433	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in recent days, citizens and the public in Prijepolje have been on their feet, reported by numerous media, due to the injustice suffered by their fellow citizen, the top sports worker, Mr Addis Micanovic. Namely, this volleyball coach with an international career has been strikein' hunger for eight years, I apologize for eight days, affected by the consequences of suffering because he talked about crime and corruption of certain structures in the government of the city of Prepolje. The volleyball club that this man runs is highly successful and I declare twice the best sports collective in Prepolje in 2015 and 2017. The winner is "MOS Games", 2015 in Rogatica, 2017 in Pljevlje. The club has formed all the selections, the old ones, the groups, it's completely secured everything. The club counts more than 100 girls, since it's a women's volleyball club. Last year, this club was allocated a little over a million dinars for the annual budget. This year, however, he is expected 50,000. What for, gentlemen? Because this honest man reported the theft of officials, some officials of the ruling coalition in Prepolje. Micanicovic reported to the prosecutor's office two local politicians who asked him to pay a quarter of the amount of this budget, or 250,000 dinars at the expense of those close to him. At the expense of the wife's aunt of one of the officials, at the expense of the wife's aunt, Samir Tandir, a senior official of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. The tax administration filed a complaint against the aunt's company, which was used to steal and launder budget money. It is further said that at the end of last year, more malfeasances were made which damaged the municipal budget by more than seven million dinars, operating with the company. There are also more reports submitted to the local prosecutor's office about a number of similar embezzlements. Gentlemen, in Prijepolje, it is invoiced that the New Year's Packages that cost 800 dinars cost 3,000 dinars. Only a New Year's card in the Prepolje municipality costs 50,000 dinars. Every bar, every restaurant has a hall certificate in that municipality, which paid for the municipality of Prepolje, which is outrageous, etc. There is a reasonable doubt about the existence of organised criminal activities in this municipality, and I therefore ask the Minister of Justice – whether the D.A. has taken action in these lawsuits, which are dozens and if not, I urge that the law and the preservation of the Republic of Serbia and its integrity in that city be acted on as soon as possible. At the same time, I suggest that my question be fully forwarded to the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who has been insisting for years on zero tolerance against corruption. Gentlemen, the SDPS is absolutely committed to the unconditional fight against corruption and crime, and we will always stand behind these individuals fighting this monster that is destroying our society. How can you not support someone who, after eight days of hunger and a few months of pressure and the nudity his family endures and himself, threatens his young children who are very successful students, not to support one man who says - I will not reconcile to live in a country where you are punished, if you report crime. Isn't that the motto of all of us here, don't we all support this attitude? Don't we all advocate this attitude? Don't we all fight for a more honorable and advanced state of Serbia? Therefore, I want this man to begin tomorrow as the Holy Ramadan, the Holy Moon of Islam, invite him to preserve his health, which according to the doctor's report is compromised, to interrupt the post, that there is a state here, that this state will respond that we have received his message. At the same time, I would like to congratulate all the citizens of Islamic religion on the future holiday of Ramadan, with a message that they have sent it to the barbery and to preserve the great imperatives of this faith, the fight for justice, benevolence and good neighbourly relations with their other citizens living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35434	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bačevac. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35435	Thank you. The first question is for the health minister – what are the conditions of Lyme disease in Belgrade and Serbia, tick-induced diseases? What is the number, or percentage, of those bitten by infected ticks? I'm asking this because in the last few days I've had such a case in the family and attended the great crowds on VMA, both for the extraction of ticks and for the analysis of their contagion. Therefore, the question raised earlier is – do the competent institutions intend to take measures to prevent the spread of this disease, i.e. to eliminate ticks, because it is unacceptable that a large number of citizens, especially children, are exposed to unnecessary risks of receiving this dangerous disease and even in some of the central parks in the capital? Speaking of Lyme disease, it seems that especially after the government's reconstruction has been announced, many of its members, and the government in general shows some of the symptoms of this disease, especially general disability. The impediment may best be seen in the fact that despite the declared strategic goal of EU entry, Serbia will most likely open only two more chapters during this year, which will be 14 out of 35. If negotiations with the EU continue at this pace, the big question is whether our country will be ready for membership, not in 2025, but in 2035. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister – does he agree with yesterday's statement by Serbian President to AFP that Kosovo is the only real obstacle on Serbia's path to the EU? If it agrees, does this mean that it believes that removing this obstacle will be done at the heart of removing a number of shortcomings in such important areas, above all to improve the quality of life of our citizens, such as the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the freedom of the media, as clearly stated in the latest report on the progress of the European Commission. In that case, I fear that EU accession will be delayed indefinitely. A question for the Prime Minister and Minister of Energy – who is to blame for losing fivem euros from a Swiss donation aimed at building a combined biomass plant in Padinska sela? Why did the city of Belgrade, in violation of the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction for more than a year, refuse to issue local conditions for the construction of this facility? As a result, the donor concluded in December 2017 that all deadlines had been broken and officially notified the competent city and state authorities to give up financing and building the plant. Given that the Belgrade-led power responsible for this treasure is the failure, Sinisa Mali, the most serious candidate for the new finance minister, is justifiably asking the question – in what state will public finances be, that is, what would be the government's budget priorities in which he would be minister? In fact, Mr. Mali left behind a large number of indelible scars on the capital's face, with Belgrade on the water only the largest, and of course, there must be a catastrophic reconstruction of Slavi Square, a reconstruction of the Cvetni trg, which the Belgrade citizens now now call a collection centre, an unnecessary expensive and long-term New Year's lighting, a New Year's tree worth 83,000 euros, etc. Instead of solving the numerous affairs he has left behind, he will, in all likelihood, be rewarded with an even higher and more responsible function. The next question – why are regulations on incentive measures for privileged producers adopted for a certain period of time, i.e. for two years? Due to the power ministry's delay in preparing new regulations, the first six months of 2016 saw a full legal vacuum, and no investment in the energy sector could begin to be realized. At the end of this year, the same situation will be repeated. There will be a complete end to any funding, as no state authorities, nor investors, nor banks know what rules will apply from January 1st next year. So why are existing regulations simply not valid until new ones are adopted? And to end the foreign policy issue for Minister Dacic, as we see that we still have a kind of schizophrenic foreign policy, on the one hand, we vote against the opening of the US Embassy in Jerusalem, on the other hand we send a delegation to open the same embassy. So, I repeat the question -- when are we going to bring in the foreign policy strategy and the law on foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, which has been waiting for adoption for years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35436	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35437	I have a question on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic -- what is the Serbian government and what will the Serbian government do about holding the festival, so-called. "Merdita", in the translation "Good Day", which aims to promote the so-called "Good Day", Kosovo culture. For four years in Belgrade, according to Serbia's heart, a festival is being held that promotes the quasi culture of the country. When we Serbian radicals say what the government did, we ask the government how it helped if it helped, and on the other hand, what is quite clear why the government kept quiet all the time in the past period in connection with the maintenance of this festival? Perhaps for the public it is a justification by the government that she would give, it is in the organisation of NGOs, such as an NGO headed by Natasa Kandic, such as Women in Black and So Order. But the locality itself, only the venue clearly says that the government shouldn't have kept quiet and closed its eyes when it comes to the maintenance of a festival like this. First, we Serbian radicals clearly suggest that, apart from the quasi culture of the quasi state, there is no regional culture, there is no, theoretically no processing of this concept and the phenomenon of regional culture. There is a national culture, there are cultural creations in certain regions where national cultures intertwine. Kosovo culture cannot exist theoretically either. The festival, apart from the organisation, also supports the recognizable foundations of the white-world hohstapplers of all those who have been doing everything for many years, all of them are working to destroy Serbia, in order to extract territory from the work of Serbia and officially declare it an independent state of Kosovo. Among them is the already-known fund whose head is the Rockefeller brothers. To maintain this festival as a sponsor and as logistical support for political and in every other respect, the Swiss Embassy. Did the government in any way warn Swiss Embassy representatives in the past that it is pointless to support this kind of event that promotes the quasi state called Kosovo. We Serbian radicals, we ask the question, what will the government do in the coming period, not in terms of years, weeks, months, but in the coming days? Will the government finally put an end to all this by banning, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this state, the maintenance of these and these events in Serbia's territory? Or the government will continue to look at it, view it on the side and interpret it as broad-ranging and as a political understanding by the official politics run in Belgrade. We Serbian radicals, we warn the public that maintaining such manifestations is a clear sign, a clear signal of the additional weakness of the policy being led in Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. Creating an indigenous culture and language is a prerequisite for creating a new nation. A nation called Albanian has its national culture, its headquarters in Albania in Tirana, and it cannot be a culture of Kosovo, as an indigenous culture in the territory of the Serbian state, and this is a good basis for representatives of so-called. The UN states claim that Kosovo has never been part of the state of Serbia, because it has the specificity of language, the specificity of culture, and now it will have the specificity of territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35438	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35439	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I hope you will intervene with this parliamentary group that is constantly causing problems, as the Serbian Parliament also tries to bring us back to the 1990s, and I ask you to intervene so that I do not report to the Rules of Procedure afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35440	Here you go, ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35441	I ask a few questions for the prime minister, at the temporary and very poor work, Anna Brnabic, as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. I have four questions for the prime minister. First question, what will the prime minister and the entire government do about the protest and strike at the Kazen company in Smederev? We've heard that these workers work 12 hours a day, work Saturdays, work Sundays, work overtime and have a salary of 22,000 dinars. I'd like the Prime Minister to answer how someone with 22,000 dinars can survive the month if he works 10 or 12 hours a day, if he's not paid overtime, if he's not paid Saturday and not paid Sundays? It is clear to me that the prime minister has no such problems, because since the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia's government, the traffic of her brother's company has increased 13 times. Not three, not five, but 13 times. I know she and her loved ones don't have any financial problems, but I'd like to hear from her that the citizens of Serbia, who work for 22,000 dinars, will survive and make ends meet. That's not the worst thing that's happened in this firm, so I'm asking the prime minister's question, what's she gonna do about the seven workers who were fired at that company, "Kaisen"? The explanation that I have here, which they got from the employer why they were fired, please be careful, is that the strike and the picture from the strike were shared on the social network Facebook. This, as they were told at the firm, damaged the company's business policy by the company's directors. I'd really like someone to explain to me if this was real in 2018. It's not a job problem, there's work every day, all day long, the problem is profit. Someone works for 22,000 dinars 30 days a month, 12 hours a day, works on Saturdays and Sundays, and has no right to ask for an increase in profits, even when the rebellion gets fired. The state gave 10,000 euros per job. Do we need foreign investments? Yes, they are. Are these foreign investments? No, this is slavery. I ask the prime minister to answer me, since I have never received it before, and I have the right to the Rules of Procedure, what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about this. I also ask the prime minister, as well as the minister, Mr. Djordjevic. A boardwoman in the town of Nis Jelena Djordjevic was fired when she said she would not vote in the Nis City Assembly against the state being the owner of Nis Airport. The woman worked for three years and was fired for not respecting the SNS decision in the town of Nis. I really ask you – is it normal for this to be allowed to be done at every step and every day in 2018? That's why you have protests in both Požega and Nis and tomorrow in the King, because the Royals won't allow their mayor as capital investment to open a traffic light and beat people on the street in broad daylight. I ask you the last question, Mr. Milicevic, the president of the National Assembly and all vice presidents – when will the Democratic Party's parliamentary club get the footage from the cameras? I'm glad these professional people are here to see how many cameras there are. We are responsible for not being filmed when a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group harassed and threatened our colleague Aleksandra Jerkov. That's what encourages violence. No matter who it is, regardless of religious, political and nationality, violence must not be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35442	Thank you, fellow Milojits. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35443	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first question for the prosecution. What will the Republic Prosecutor's Office do, and the judiciary, of course, about beating up a 63-year-old man in the middle of Smederevska Palanka, which happened a few years ago, where the president of the municipality then, also known as Heineken, who spoke earlier, beat up an old man of 63 years ago, with the help of several other men, who, out of grace, called Ken's tigers, must have been a dangerous grizzle. The second question concerns Dragan Gilas. What will the competent authorities and the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about the fact that while the children were at risk of poor uranium, which this parliamentary group thinks is a vitamin and their allies who bombed us, what will they do about the fact that he privatized for his company an object belonging to children in the Pioneer Park and built in it a facility for Big Brother, for real? So, they strongly condemn all reality, except for that, and the first one was organized by Dragan Gilas, who used an object that belonged to children in Pioneer Park for that purpose. What's he going to do in a criminal, but also financially, given that it's gone for a miserable price? The next question concerns Dragan Sutanovac. What the authorities will do about the fact that Dragan Sutanovac, downplayed the country's fighting power while he was a minister against the military and against the defences, what the authorities will do about the sale of weapons, weapons and equipment to the Yugoslav Army, with the exception of reducing our defence and combat power, it also has consequences for humanitarian actions that the military once took. So, let us remember all the floods in 2014, when we found that Mr. Sutanovac, Minister against the military and against the defence, and the aluminum boats sold out 100 euros a piece, reducing the possibility of a reaction to help citizens properly. Also, what the authorities will do, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Construction, Tax and Other Authorities, in view of the fact that we are being checked that the Adi Bridge had a permit at the time of the start of its construction, how much money was spent, how much was your commission and what would be taken from the Ministry of Culture and Informing about the fact that Dragan Gilas during his government robbed the media by controlling freedom of the press through the Darekt Media and Multicom in a certain way, while earning, no one could have rented a commercial in the media, because it was far more expensive than when it was bought at Dragan Gilas. With this in mind, its revenues have been increased by several decades, from 2008 to 2012, and since then by a few dozen have fallen and it is more than clear that there has been trade in influence, it is the least work that has been done, and in such a way it has provided itself with private jobs through public function, which also refers to Mr. Zgratovec, Minister of War or Minister against the Army, who, thanks to the sale of equipment and various other murky jobs, has built a 320 squares residential space on his pasture, which is larger than the volleyball playground, so he can easily mix a volleyball team into an object that he made of 800 euros's salary, and he found a collection of expensive watches, pictures, etc. and savings on only one account of 300,000 euros, and according to data provided by Balsa Bozovic, in time, there is another account with Dragan Sutanovac, which has a million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35444	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in your personal name a delegation of the People's Congress of the People's Republic of China, headed by the Vice-President of the Permanent Committee 13. The Svekine National Congress of Cao Jianming, which is currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Otherwise, today is the first meeting of the Commission for Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Svekine National Congress of the People's Republic of China. We're going back to work. [[Applause]] The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35445	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests of the National Republic of China delegation, the Honorable Minister and guests of the Ministry, today I will ask my question to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. The question concerns the Voluntary Law and concerns volunteers. After the 2010 Voluntary Law was passed, when volunteering was declared to be of interest to the Republic of Serbia, a large number of young people predominantly with colleges began volunteering. The largest number of volunteers volunteered to work in state bodies, public enterprises and various services and volunteering was also very often completed with a work relationship, which is certainly positive. During volunteering, young doctors, lawyers, economists, and other educated young people show their attitude to work, responsibility, knowledge acquired during education, and some volunteering, unfortunately, takes several years. According to the current law, volunteers don't get any profits, so most often they themselves bear the costs of volunteering. First of all, I mean travel expenses, travel expenses, and hot meals. Article 21 The Voluntary Law stipulates that the organisers of volunteering contracts provide for cost compensation, I am referring to the costs of the road and the costs of a warm meal. So far, it's a very rare practice, so most young people who volunteer for several months, and as I said a few years, even though they're unemployed, bear these very costs themselves. It is not necessary to ignore the effect of volunteers and the importance of the jobs they do during volunteering. In order for volunteering to continue to be stimulating for young people, who see it primarily as an opportunity to get a job, but also an opportunity to gain new knowledge and experience, I would ask the Minister of Labour, given the responsibility of this ministry to monitor and control the implementation of the Volunteering Law. Does the Ministry have data on the total number and personnel structure of volunteers in Serbia and whether and in what extent of the institution, businesses and state bodies that are volunteering organizers make up for the costs and should it be possible to consider any other legal solution for organisers to bear the costs of volunteers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35446	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35447	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my parliamentary question to Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. Given that I have learned that several criminal charges have been carried out against the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Marinika Tepic for the purposeless spending of financial resources from the AP Vojvodina budget at a time when she was honestly and fairly acting as the province's secretary for sports and youth in the government of that charlatan Bojan Pajtic, the subject of my interest is what happens to the cases of criminal charges filed and how many criminal charges have been filed to this day. Here's an example that is closely related to the subject of criminal charges that are often of interest and often asked by my fellow citizens, my Pancians. Last year's application, a sports inspection found that a fitness club normally run on behalf of a party colleague, Marinika Tepic, who changes parties along with her as a boomer flowers, essentially at the registered address and does not exist, but thus received close to a million dinars in the period from 2013 to 2016 through four contracts. According to the inspection claim, mentioning the fitness club that is reportedly located at the temporary address is a private house that has no gym, let alone gym. When we look at that between 2013 and 2016, certain football clubs that play in concrete leagues in Vojvodina received funding from the Sports and Youth Secretariat, then nothing is surprising to us anymore. This is only part of an example where decent and honest politicians, human rights fighter, justice and truth, a proven anti-fascist, respected citizens of Serbia who opposed in 2014 to assign rooms to the National Council of Roma in the same building of its political party in Panchev. Because of that human gesture, the Roma dedicated a song to her – a marinika, that you were a harmonica, which I hear became a hit at Roma weddings in southern Banat. I would like to refer my second parliamentary question to the BIA, and that is to say, does the BIA have any knowledge that Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic has certain indirect or direct contacts with persons suspected of co-operating with foreign services and foreign service agents working to disrupt the order and destabilise the Republic of Serbia? Please the BIA, in accordance with its legal powers, inform this parliamentary question to the members of the Security Control Committee at a closed session of the Security Control Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We often listen to lies and lies and unfounded criticisms on behalf of the SNS and its members by Marinika Tepic as we are in SNS criminals, beating each other and slapping each other. Dear Serbian citizens, she must have left it as an old habit of the government's Bojan Pajtica period, so I guess she thinks we're doing the toilets and slapping like they did before us. Unfortunately, respected citizens of Serbia are the reality of the actions of individual politicians in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who still have the opportunity to treat their own personal frustrations because they have lost political credibility in the people. In the next meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, many of them will be the past, but only the past is not political history, because in order for someone to be part of history, he must do something in the interest of his country and his people. In the end, I'd like to say something to my Pancians. Dear citizens of Pancheva, when someone wants to show up as a fighter for our city, in the interest of our citizens of Pancheva, he must first live in Pancheva, he must stand up as a Pančevac and work as a Pančevac all day long in the interest of our city and lie as a Pančevac, not as Marinika Tepic, who takes care of the interests of the town of Pančeva from Novi Sad and the surrounding town and Pančevo only comes when he has to collect some cheap political point, because in her political career followed by the party crossing into the party, there are still cheap points left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35448	Thank you. Since none of the representatives, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, responds for the word we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Gordana Komic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 20 and item 22 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: all members of the Government, then associates Aleksandra Damjanović and Miodrag Poledica, state secretaries at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Daniela Vazura, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Vesna Kovač, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications; Milica Ćatić, Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Infrastructure; Veljko Kovačević, Darinka Važuranović, Saša Stojanović and Zoran Ilic, Deputy Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Dusan Vučković, Deputy Director of the Office of the Republic of Serbia; Jovanka Atanaković and Đe Milić, Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure of Transport and Infrastructure of Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Dušan Vučović, Director of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Director of the Republic of Croatia, Director of the Republic of Croatia. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so immediately to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) of Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Special Conditions for Realisation and Projects for Members of the Security Forces; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ports of Inland Waters; Proposal for a Law on the Procedure for the Registration of Transport of Travelling Persons in Roadways; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Freight and Roads; Proposal for a Law on Safety in Railway Traffic; Proposal for a Law on Interoperability of the Railway System; Proposal for a Law on Roads; Proposal for a Law on Railways; Proposal for a Law on Safety in Railway Traffic; Proposal for a Law on Interoperability of the Railway System; Proposal for a Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Transport of Transport and the Law on the Imand of Imand of the Imand of the Laws; Proposal for the Convention on the Convention on the Consistence of the Convention on the Rules of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Conventions of Laws of Laws of the Conventions of the Convention on the Convention on the Conventions of Laws of Laws of Laws on the Conventions on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Convention on the Rules of the Convention on the Convention on the Conventions of the Conventions of Laws of the Rules of the Rules of the Rules of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention of the Convention ofthe Convention on International Civil Aviation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on Control and Management of Ship Ballast Waters and Grounds of 2004; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on International Road Transport; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey in the field of urbanism; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia and the Proposal for a Decision on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Tunisia on the Financial Plan for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35449	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable MPs and MPs, you have twenty hundred laws in front of you today, amending and supplementing the laws of certain protocols, conventions and agreements. I believe that we will have one quality debate, I hope that much better than the proposed amendments, because the amendments seem about to be deleted, and at least there are some other proposals, but I hope that today through the debate, if there is a need to improve these draft laws. You have before you the first law, so on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. Why was the government defined as the so-called so-called government. Special conditions? For two reasons, and the first reason is that we believe that the issue of national security is, above all, the basis of every modern state's functioning. Because we're recording about 30,000 security officers that the police, the military, the BIA that haven't solved the housing issue for many years, and given their conditions under which they work and the importance of the state. This was one of the main reasons why we have defined ourselves through this law to establish specific criteria, conditions and way of realising this great building project for members of those who are employed in the security forces of our country. Given that we have done an analysis of how this will affect not only the solution of the problem, we have done an analysis of how this will affect our economic development, the growth of the social product, but also the growth of the share of construction in GDP, increased employment, somehow speeding up the work of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have defined ourselves today to put this as the first point in front of you MPs, because we think this is of great importance to all economic development. In the same way, under the same conditions, we will resolve the issue of people who have no settled housing issue, and are employed in the military, police or BIA. At the same time, local self-government units will be able to charge taxes after these apartments are finished. And we're also going to step up that, and, as I said, economic growth and development. Thirty thousand, therefore, members of the security forces are unsettled in that sense when polls were made that number of them are interested in participating in this project and buying such apartments. They reported 18,905. We're going to build 1,578 apartments in six cities in the first phase of this project, and that's another reason why we think that one law should exist, because at the same time it's going to start building practically in several cities. So it's Nis, Vranje, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Nis. What we expect to start building first is after the completion of the tender procedure at the end of August in three cities, which are Nis, Vranje and Kraljevo. What I think is also important is that today, by this law, this bill, the value of these apartments, i.e. the investment value of these 1,500 apartments, is 64m euros. The phase I we have proposed is a phase that will take place in the next two or two and a half years. I think it is also important, because we have announced that Serbia's construction directorship will be the one to manage this project. The investor is, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry or possibly given the possibility through the law to be an economic society that will be organised for a certain period of time. Our first projects were worked by the CIP Institute. Also, Serbia's Construction Directorate is in the final phase, or we can show you and now I'm going to show you photos, so a view apartment, so that's the apartment that security forces will be able to buy. We put it like this in a few stages. So this is building apartments what it actually looks like, done by all standards, energy efficiency and all other standards. Everything is made, everything will be made of domestic material. A list of domestic producers has also been adopted that will therefore be able to participate in these affairs. So that would be the first law. We'll discuss the details of the law together during this debate. Furthermore, the next law that I would like to draw your attention to is the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobility Catastrophe. This law began to be defined once again at the end of 2016. Public debates have been held for this law, and I must say that if we look at the construction sector and everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past few years in this area, and we have done a lot, we are in the world today 10th to issue construction permits, we were 186 in 2014. What's definitely left, like, I'm not going to call the problem right now, but something that affects our efficiency in the area of construction, is just writing down, the process of enrolling in the cadastre. The newspapers in this law are primarily electronic application, then legal security and reliability that we will certainly have since public notebooks will work primarily on the principle of service. I think it is very important that we have direct communication from the Republic Geodetic Institute and the Tax Administration, which is no longer a citizen, and no businessmen will go on several counters, but practically have a public notary who performs all the enrolment jobs for them and digitises their contract. Public discussions on the law were held in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis on August 1, 3rd and 8th. The next law, which is ahead of you, where the three laws are very important, which represent our obligations to bring Serbia into line with the adopted UN conventions, imposes sanctions on the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The Law on Intermediation, Transport and Immobilisation is clearly amended. Obligations shall be introduced to ensure that both founders and owners and those who conduct lease and traffic operations are not in any way condemned and very important Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. So the central records of real owners, legal entities are being introduced, and what is the real owner this time means in the law is clearly defined. The Law on Roads and, together with it, the proposal to amend, therefore, the new Law on Roads and the Amendment on Supplements and the Law on Transport of Freight in Road Traffic, transport of passengers in road transport are three laws that solve problems, especially when we talk about the Law on Roads, solve problems of inherited or often unsolved property, when we implement construction projects. Therefore, designing the construction or realization of the construction of the road network and records of public roads. What we've noticed in the last few years is that when we go into the realisation of projects or those projects that we've inherited that are already under way, the biggest problem is actually the unresolved property issue. Either it happens that on what property is practically state-owned we have private, built private facilities, or it just happens the other way around, that the road has to practically go through certain private properties, and in that sense there are often a lot of problems. So it further affects that the project cannot be realised in that plan, with the dynamics that it really should be done. I'll give you one example. There is, for example, our big road rehabilitation project in Serbia. The project is worth 400m euros. It is financed from the loan, 300m euros from the loan, 100m from the Republika Srpska budget. One, for example, out of shares, and that is the majority, is Topola – Bućin's grave, which cost over a billion dinars, we are talking about rehabilitation. We had a situation where, for example, there were 754 assets, and the stock was 27 kilometers long. It's just one example, but in many cases it's the things that happen. So this may be the first major newspaper of the Law of Ways and for us very important, because that's how we solve this issue. The second issue is very important about this law, the issue of maintenance and the criteria of road categorisation. So far, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has clearly defined the categorisation of state roads, and local self-government units have determined and categorized their roads on the site, so it often happens that, for example, the boulevard has one categorisation in one place, and the boulevary in another city or a smaller town has a completely different categorisation. Now we're unifying all that. So we clearly determine the categorization for all roads, for all the travel network in Serbia's territory. The Transport Act, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of goods in road transport, introduces a record of their own needs in the transport of cargo. This is the first time one of these records has been introduced, because we have noticed that there are certain types of abuses that we simply want to regulate in this way. Other amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic, there were a lot of questions and we'll talk about it, I suppose, during the debate, but so on. "sertification", clear criteria for how it is done. The conditions for changing driving schedules shall be specified. The story of a taxi association in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise there are 15,000 taxi drivers, six and a half thousand on Belgrade territory, which are mainly entrepreneurs through certain taxi companies. It is not a question of whether to send "cargo", "auber" or any other digital story, but of what law will any of it be regulated or registered. You cannot deal with taxi operations, be registered under the Law on Tourism and thus use certain parts of that law, and you should essentially be registered under the Law on Transport of Passengers in Road Traffic, as well as all taxi associations. Furthermore, there are amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act. First of all, the point we announced the previous half-year, which is the maximum speed change on highways from 120 to 130 kilometers per hour. Taking into account all the criminal provisions already regulated by the MUP and measuring the average speed and results that have been shown in terms of a small number of traffic accidents, on the other hand the better quality of the highways, we felt that this was one of the solutions to which we would get your consent. In addition, another thing is introduced by these changes and additions, which is that when it comes to violent driving, which unfortunately continues to exist, besides prisons and public works, these amendments and additions to the law will also be fined. From the area of water traffic is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. There are, of course, public debates in both Novi Sad and Belgrade and during the August of last year. We believe that one of the priorities of the development of our transport system, the most we have always talked about, and the last two years, about rail traffic, but something we must never ignore and where it is necessary to further introduce certain clear criteria is the issue of water traffic. It is not our water traffic, if we look at the number of kilometres of the waterway compared to the European waterway so large but very significant, given the location of Serbia. We have done a lot in this area in the last few years in terms of regulating legislative legislation, then, equipping from our port captains to further, to inspection, then, slowly opening the market, but what's left is a question so-called. The grey economy, which de facto exists in the area of traffic, exists in the area of water traffic. Our estimates are that because of the so-called. illegal gravel, where we have both gravel and sand, which is related to illegal, completely illegal places, we have roughly damage that is about 600,000 euros a year from gravel alone, in the entire water transport, we believe that, therefore, we cannot know exactly, but somewhere around two million euros represents so-called. The gray economy. We first identified where all these illegal places were in the previous period as the Ministry. There are exactly 143 locations, completely illegal. And then we did, or we proposed right through this law, and that's why these changes and additions are in front of you, the system way that we're going to solve it in the next period, because that de facto has to be solved, they can't be illegal. In accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, we will ensure that we have, that there are temporary building permits, in a transitional period, while these pebbles, sandpapers, etc., do not, therefore, come where they belong, and these are ports. We believe that in the next period, too, we will certainly have revenue from a budget that can be measured by millions of euros. Furthermore, before you there is also the Law on Railways, the Law on Railway Safety, as well as the Law on Interoperability of the Railway System. Public debates took place from 1 September to 24 September in Nis, Kralje, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Subotica. Strategically important for Serbia is the development of the railway sector, and that is something that we could listen to some of the previous 20 probably years, but if something has been done in the railway sector in the previous three years, then I can proudly say that in all three areas at the same time, one is law-making, another is reforming rail and opening the market, and the third is investing in railways, then it must have been the government of Alexander Vukic and this government. Today we have 3,735 kilometers of one-wheel and two-wheel tracks, of which 92% are, above all, single-circuit and 2,263 are electrified. What represents a serious problem is, first of all, the age of our railroads. The average age is 47 years old. Every time we start reforming the railways, that is, when we move into reconstructions of the railway network, which is also the shares in the north of Corridor 10 and in the south of Corridor 10, and that is also the fast track of Belgrade-Budapest, which we launched as a project, it is also a project that has been discussed for 20 years, and this is a bypass around Nis and connecting Nis-Dimitrovgrad. Everything we do, we do first of all, according to European and world standards. For that, of course, we need the same laws. That's why we have before you and the Law on Railways and the Safety Act. I think it is important to note that the Law on Railways regulates rail services in more detail, that means station buildings, freight terminals, randing stations, facilities, port facilities, etc. It also strengthens the role of the Railway Directorate. So they are now, which slowly, as it is normal, take over certain responsibilities and regulate primarily rail transport. The safety law in rail traffic, I think it's very important. Somehow every time we talk about traffic safety, we deal most with road safety, but it's equally important rail traffic. We slowly rehabilitate our tracks, arrange cell buildings, arrange road crossings, which aren't all arranged, we haven't arrived yet, but every year we can boast with a higher percentage of arranged road crossings. That is why it is very important that we devote ourselves to this area of safety in railway transport, which is why this law is special. Of course, each of the laws that I have mentioned so far, and those that I will explain later and in conversation with you, are laws that are fully in line with all EU regulations and directives and that is why some of them are changing laws, not because they were not good, but because this is simply living matter and how new directives appear and how we perfect and modernise our transport system, in that sense and we adapt our laws. As far as other laws are concerned, they are mainly laws relating to international conventions, agreements, either in road, or in air traffic. Serbia is one, above all, respected state and I think there is no minority country in the world that is in the area of transport, which is of great importance to us, because it connects us with Europe and the world, which does not want certain connections, whether they are in air, rail or passenger or road traffic. In that sense, these agreements are in front of you. What we're doing next is what we're trying to do, but we're gonna talk about it, make agreements that will cut our time on the border. So, honourable MPs, we are, i.e. I'm here to answer all your questions and, if necessary, make these laws even better and more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35450	Thank you. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35451	Thank you. Madam Minister, honored guests from the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin a little unusually, and that is to say that I would like to commend Mrs Mihajlović, who in many things I cannot agree with here, but her way of expressing this was from the best we've heard from ministers in this assembly, while most ministers read their own perhaps from other written texts, Mrs Mihajlović said that, which I certainly particularly appreciate. It's her matter, some of it isn't, but most of it is. So, thank you for this presentation. But, of course, that doesn't mean that I or my MP group agree with these laws, or the content of the laws that we have here today, that we need to discuss. Of course, the law is very much and there are many topics that could be addressed, or due attention. I will probably, like most MPs, fall under this one trap that I will deal mainly with this first draft law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces and in this way perhaps some other laws on which we would have something to say will remain undiscovered, and this will remain undiscovered and certainly through the amendments, because we see that the usual practice continues that the ruling coalition gives a lot of amendments. So to return to this first law, this bill represents, in fact, an ideal reflection of the functioning of the ruling establishment in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Serbian citizens are witnesses of a constant, whether official, or unofficial election campaign, so me and this law and our parliamentary group see it as part of a marketing campaign, or part of an election campaign. This positive media hall around this law, which is also run around “Beograda na Voda”, the music fountain in Slavija, the multiple rescue of “Smederevo Irons”, the rescue of a national air carrier, etc., instead of talking about real problems. This best illustrates the title, the front page of the newspaper "News", as of Friday 11 May this year, when on the front page were written, in the central part, that to its apartment 500 euros per square, where the figure of those 500 euros was additionally marked in bright red color. In the left upper corner, there was a small title that said "The New Harrac for a million euros" and that it said that all those car owners, cars that are more than 15 years old, would have to go twice for a technical examination. On the agenda of this session is next to this law and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, as the 13th item of the agenda. It is not included in this regulation, which I hear is being considered and withdrawn this morning, because indeed the evil languages immediately calculated that the money obtained from an additional technical review at the annual level, as 30 euros is a technical review, would be around 30m euros, and you plan to allocate 65m euros for these apartments, so that would be about half of it. In fact, it would have already brought half the funds that would have been enough to at least start this construction. Of course, what I'd like to ask you are the following things. First, why has no public debate been held before, but why has no public debate really been held? You see, here I have an answer in an explanation that says - public debates regarding the draft law have not been implemented, since the draft law contains data concerning data that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia, whose discovery would result in potential damage to the national security of the Republic of Serbia, public security, or security and intelligence services of public authorities. I find this a very interesting answer and, after multiple readings of this bill, it was not enough for me to see any data in relation to the data that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia, whose discovery would result in potential damage to the national security of the Republic of Serbia. While I was reading this, I really can't help but get the impression, right in front of my eyes, of the late actor Danil Bate Stojkovic from "Balkan spy", so I don't think this is a very smart explanation and justification for why there hasn't been a public debate here. Of course, my second question – is the solution from the law, that a very narrow circle of people can expect to buy an apartment under conditions that are more unmatched than marketable, violates the Constitution of guaranteed equality of all citizens? Namely, we all here respect the work that people do in security services, whether they're in military uniforms, whether they're in police uniforms, whether they're in the BIA, or if they're people who participate in the conduct of prison sanctions. In my opinion, let me, I'm a doctor in education, I think doctors or, if you will, nurses do a very difficult job. We give our health to their hands, the health of our loved ones in their hands, and they would also have to have a certain kind of special treatment, not to mention teachers and teachers we give to our children to make people of them and educate them, not to mention miners who are just working under particularly difficult conditions. Here, I really believe, it is an unequal treatment, i.e. positive discrimination that can instigate certain very ugly suspicions that a class of praetorian regimes is being created. Similar to what it was during communism, during Tito's Yugoslavia, and even in the entire eastern bloc when people who were in the military and the police had far greater privileges than ordinary people, but that was why they were truly a pillar of preservation of the regime. Of course, they weren't party voting machines because it was then a one-party system. However, since we are also skating slowly towards a single-party system, but there are still elections, I think that they are also turning into a voting machine and into some pillar of regime that will protect the regime by all means. I have to look back on the fact that there's talk here about protecting the rights of these people in particular. Today, however, we are witnessing that these unfortunate workers in the textile industry in Smederev were not protected just because they put on their Facebook photo profile from the strike. So, about as in Orwell’s “animal Farm ” — all animals are the same, but some are more equal. Why do you even bring this Lex special? Here is mentioned in the explanation "Belgrade on Water", given that "Belgrade on Water" is such a controversial project against which absolute and legal, and professional urban sciences occur. I don't think that's the best way to get "Belgrade on Water" out of the respect of constitutionality to try to make some parallels. There is also one thing, which is that the law is proposed to enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". It's been waiting so long for these people to settle their housing issues and now they can't wait a week, as usual, to step in after eight days. That, of course, won't make a big difference, but it's just saying that there's a lot of marketing in this whole law, so this is another thing. Then I would further say that there is an interesting procedural question, why are all the members of the government appointed as representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when considering this bill? Well, we're not voting the 2019 budget. It would be logical for you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to be the defence minister, the police minister, possibly, Minister Kuburovic, for these people who enforce legal sanctions. This somehow experiences a general audience as a part of marketing. As for the very price of squares, you are talking about the price of 500 euros squares, and then says in one place that the price of squares determines the investor. So how does the investor determine if the price of the square is 500 euros? It remains rather unclear whether the price of the square is VAT or VAT-free, because if it is with VAT, then it certainly exceeds the 500-euro figure and is approaching the 600-euro figure. We have a Article 21, in which it deviates from the provisions of Article 133. The law on planning and construction, and we also have here, about the selection of locations for the construction of a residential complex, that there is also a governor, or governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and I don't know what Mrs Tabakovic will do in the commission that determines the locations? I would also ask why the implementation of this project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia, is there any fear that people working in the security service will leave the country and, as young people say, vote their feet, and that means voting against this society and against the regime, by going to the airport or to the bus station on their feet and going abroad? Don't we and other young people, engineers, doctors, nurses and everyone else leave the country, and aren't they, I repeat, important in themselves? I don't have much time, but I'd say two or three things if I just ran. This law on enrolment in the cadastre is good and I am very happy about it, because the pens of the regime are indeed abundantly illegal and in the cadastre of unwritten objects, and then they will have the opportunity to do so easily. As for this Bill on Changes and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, we certainly welcome this maximum speed of 130 km per hour on highways, but it would be nice to have these highways at the same level as the highways in the surrounding countries, specifically in Croatia and Hungary, because we all know that we experience a civilization shock when we cross the border and that highway is a completely different quality. As for measuring the average speed, I don't think it's the happiest solution, because it can be wild and driven fast, because of production and some other things, and then it stops, drinks coffee and average gets the same speed, so I think maybe the interceptors, investing in interceptors, would better solve that problem than this calculation of average speed. As for the Law on Railways, we really do have early cancer, but we are constantly passing new laws on railways, it was passed in 2013, then completed in 2015, so we now have in 2018, railways and wagons getting smaller and railing in increasingly poor conditions. Here, I'd like to stand there and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35452	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35453	Thank you for your comments. I'll start with this general interest that you mentioned and why you even have a general interest in this law. First of all, to strengthen these young people's national security. As there are young doctors, young informers, there are the same young people in the security forces, in the MUP, the military, the BIA, and I believe that this can help them solve their housing issues as well. What's going through and I've had a chance to hear, among other things, through the amendments, but, here you are now saying, is why we've restricted only one group of people, as you say, and does that mean that we might have hurt the Constitution? Let me tell you right now, it's treated the same category of people. Therefore, it is permitted by the Constitution, and we would not put such a law before the MPs themselves. But we're not closing the door for a moment. That means we're going to start this project, see how it's going to be realized in the next year or two, and in that sense, we're going to see if that project continues to expand. So far from now, we've put it just for the security forces. We put it because it is a problem, and because it's people who have 30,000 and who don't and have no opportunity to solve their living issue, but we left it open to see in terms of realising the project, because now this is a model that can be applied to other categories of population. When you mentioned 130 km per hour so you staged a technical review, what Minister Stefanovic said today, it is certain that there will be a change and addition of the Traffic Safety Act in that part of the technical examination, so there will be no additional burden on drivers, i.e. vehicle owners. There you also mentioned the standards and quality of our highways. I want to tell you that these 130 kilometers an hour really is the result that all of our highways that have been ending for the last few years, not a small number of kilometers that we have finished, are highways made by all European standards. These are not standards made by the minister, these are the world standards that exist and are primarily taken into account by a company that controls the performer. The investor is somewhere called "The Roads", somewhere "The Corridors", somewhere the Government of the Republic of Serbia and nothing can be released unless it meets all the conditions, or all the standards, whether European or global. So I believe that in the coming period we will have not only highways, but what we continue to insist on, which is to continue rehabilitation and reconstruction of other roads. The road you probably thought of, by entering from another country to Serbia, for example, Batrovci-Kuztin, was selected, among other things, by the performer's tender and we expect to begin rehabilitation work within the next month. There, for example, rehabilitation was delayed not because "The Roads" did not do anything good, or because the state did something good, but in a public call and tender we chose the design houses that were supposed to design rehabilitation. The tender fell several times because of the occurrence of design houses that did not even have basic conditions that they could appear in a particular tender. And that's why, for example, we had a half-year delay in rehabizing this very important stock. I'm just saying what kind of problems we're dealing with, where just some things are objective and we can't influence. Let me just go back to this law that is important once again, and I think we need to explain everything more thoroughly for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. When you mentioned the price, the selling price for apartments is 500 euros per square cent plus VAT. This means that it will likely be around 550 on Belgrade's territory, possibly even a slightly lower price on Serbia's territory. So the sale price is 500, whether the performer himself might have a lower or different one, we'll see about that, but she can't cross 500 euros plus VAT. You asked why the entire government was appointed to come? First of all, today is a united debate. There are a lot of laws here. Secondly, these are laws in which we have a situation that, as you mentioned, some other resolutions also concern the realisation of this law, but the investor is the Serbian government, that is one reason. The second thing, from the domain of the building ministry, which I run, so most of the work has to be done right now, which is why I'm here today, not the other ministers. One more thing, why the special law? Let me remind you, for the refugees and displaced, there is also a special law for socially endangered categories of the population there is also a House Bill. So it's not unusual for certain categories to have special laws. In this case, this is a law that needs to provide us with speed and efficiency, because if at some point it starts to build in several positions, let's say in August these three cities, and then in two months after that, for example, Belgrade and Novi Sad, then one phase ends in these three cities, the second stage starts in some other cities, because this is not the only six cities where there is a need for these apartments. We have a survey that was made for almost all the cities in Serbia. So that's why we wanted to somehow, not use the word centralised, but to keep an eye out and control from step one to step one to the last to be as effective as possible. Now thank you, if I skipped something you'll ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35454	Thank you, Vice President. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35455	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a set of laws that, at least when it comes to traffic, are quite logically connected, so that's, how do we say, one advance from some earlier connections, but not to go back to it but to try at least these 20 minutes as much as we have to say as possible. Law number one, which has caused a considerable public attention and has also caused the attention of the profession to which it applies, has certain, in order to say indifference, at least when we look at the population of the policies that we represent in the MP group of free MPs. The first question to be asked is the formal nature and it would be good if it did not happen in the future, which is that the urgency of a law is explained by what the law needs to be urgently passed. You know, it's not an explanation, and nothing urgent happened, let's just say that the people in the security services were lost in some recent time without the apartments they live in, and now we have to deal with it urgently. So the principle remark is that we don't have to use urgency when it's simply not her place, and the problems need to be solved and that's not at all controversial. The protection of freedom is probably the most important function of a country, and we will agree on that independently of which political group we belong, I am absolutely sure that there is nothing more important than protecting freedom and whether you love a country that is big, that wants to do anything or like, my parliamentary group, which loves a small and efficient state, which some things do very well, and some, that is, most things leave to citizens and businesses to do. We will all agree that security is almost an exclusive job of the state, that there is no defense that can be organised beyond the state or the alliance of states, that there is no police that can be organised in a different way, i.e. Yes, but it would be inefficient and expensive. The question here is, we have some people who care about our freedom, about the safety of our lives, our assets, protection from terrorism, and in general about our lives being quality. The fundamental question is what is causing these people to do in the best way and what instruments the legal framework provides for them to do these jobs in the best way. Building apartments as such is, as you would say, one motivational package. If we're talking about 500-euro-square apartments in locations located on the peripheries of cities, those six locations, let's when we add it all together, let's say there's 300 euros in gifts per square. Or if we have a 20-year term on which these apartments would be paid off, it's about the stimulation of about 90 euros on the basic salary that goes. And my question always says, is it better if that stimulation goes in some other way, let's say that people have bigger salaries that want to solve the housing issue? Do other things motivate people who work in the defense system? For example, here, I'd go back to the police. Will the police do better their jobs, for example, if they have a higher budget for field work? Will their satisfaction with the work be greater if the judiciary does not bring down very correct police investigations, because we have not reformed the judiciary, or have we not passed laws that allow very often very high-quality police investigations to fall in court? Are these things that our security personnel would rather motivate? Is the aim of our laws to maybe motivate people who have a settled housing issue, and for example in Belgrade, we have a field work problem, because Belgradeers don't want to go to the police to do field jobs, they have a small salary, and then people from some poorer regions of Serbia come, unfortunately there are big differences between the centre and the periphery, but they don't know how to work Belgrade well, they simply don't have these connections, so they can do good things that are in the description of police work and much else we have in question. Another question opens that is not good to open. For example, about seven or eight years ago, we had apartments for scientists and professors, and then some others were sore about getting it. Question, did the outflow of people in these activities decrease after these laws were passed? Is that why science flourished, or is it more or less undetected? So these are questions, simply, was this really the best way to invest in our freedom and security or were there any other ways? I'm not going to apropo to say that this is a bad way, but I'm rather suspicious, somewhat unscheduled, whether it could have been done in another way, let's say that those employees who, as you might say, don't have an apartment in their possession, solving a housing issue, some period from the early periods, because the housing issue is being solved by people in the private sector and people who are in agriculture maybe in other places, and they can't solve it this way. But it doesn't matter. Could this have been done differently, to say police, military, state security services, all others who watch over our freedom, property rights and life, can solve it as well as everyone else through commercial banks, of course, with much respect that because of nature, let's say, their internship and their internship is shorter in years, they can get some benefits because most of them can't draw credit to 25 years? It's the same thing to take care of. Would that make the market less deformed if they had a choice to buy any apartment and game rules by which they could get a certain salary supplement? Whether it's a better way to locate resources for this society or maybe it's better to build typical apartments in certain locations, which maybe, some neighborhoods are nice for life, but let's just say they don't like to live in the same place. Some prefer to live closer to the center in a smaller apartment, some prefer to live in some part of the city that they love. These are some of the questions that are principled. I can't say it's good or bad on my part, but I can say it opens up one big question about what we wanted to do with it. That's one big question. I think that this competition, this guy, whether it's more important for us to be in health care, whether it's more important for us to defend freedom, whether we have a more important employee working in the ministry who's responsible for the same jobs, or if we care about someone in the private sector, they're not good questions in a society, because they're creating a kind of conflict. It's best if we can achieve the same rules for everyone, and the best solutions have always been those solutions that give us the market. One of the good things is that in this country we slowly let the market give answers to as many questions as possible, but we haven't gone far enough in many areas yet. So the questions are, as you would say, the principle of nature. There's some things I'd really like to say hello to. One of the things is that with some amendments to the law we're going to meet with those criticisms that we've received, we're a little, how can I say, poorly interpreted both by GREK and by adopting recommendations to FATF and so on, and it's a good thing that they're getting adopted now. For our country, which is a country that is in a sensitive position, because by gaining our past, mistakes in the distant, near past, we make mistakes and in the present, no one is the world, is it, we have come to the position that all who matter to us politically and economically, like to hold one big bat over Serbia. And otherwise, it wouldn't be a big problem for us to take a bang, so we look at each other, and we like to look at each other and blame ourselves, is it, too, which is not good. It is good that we adopted these recommendations and it is good to remove any suspicion that someone in Serbia wants to launder money, that they want to provide shelter for people who deal with terrorism, because these doubts are not founded, we all know that we live in Serbia. But the non-compliance of the law leads people to suspect, especially those not well-intentioned. It would be good to be faster in adopting these recommendations and never be late, because it's important for the image of our country, it's important for business, it's important for freedom, it's important for our reputation in the world. In the future, it would be very good if we did it on time. It's a good thing we removed a major flaw that may not have even been predicted at the time when a law was passed that concerned the organisation of public transport stations. In practice, it was seen that in fact this law would lead to a complete illogicality and decay, and these things should be eliminated, it's also fine. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the registration procedure of immovableity and water, if amendments submitted to that law were adopted, amendments were very high-quality and, interestingly, were adopted by representatives of different ideologies and agreed on it and different parliamentary groups and positions and oppositions, the law could be of real quality, if the amendments were adopted, of course. I am very pleased to hear that there is talk of harmonisation with European directives, but we must point out that there is still work to be done here and Chapter 14 and Chapter 21 are waiting for us to open up. Scanning's given some grades, and he's given what needs to be done. It's a very long job. If this job is done faster and better, there will be an opportunity to get rid of some of the diseases that we have in the traffic system, by opening up a big market for us. There should be very quick coordination and it is no big deal if the laws are often harmonised. It's something that's good and needs to go faster. Accordingly, some practices that are inappropriate to Chapters 14 and 21 should not be nurtured in Serbia, for example in the area of air traffic. Some of these practices will not be possible. So the question always arises, on one side we go quickly, on one side we go too slowly. Finally, I have about two other laws that I think are important. With the Law on Interoperability of Railway Traffic, I do not want to be cynical, but I will be very happy if I see that we are enjoying the fruits of this law in Serbia recently, or that I can really see what interoperability in Serbia looks like in relation to the speeds defined in traffic. My happiness will be enormous if we have this dilemma of whether we will have good interoperability between those trains that go at the highest speeds provided for in this law and those trains that go at less speeds. I hope that it will only be interoperability between trains coming from neighbouring countries very quickly and then interbly crossing our tracks to go much lower speeds, and that is of course something, but it would be very good not to talk for years about how we will have extremely fast tracks in Serbia, but to go slowly in that direction. Usually this one has a lot more optimism than it has real realizations. Finally, although I have already mentioned in principle the law here under regular number 10 and regarding the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners, it is a very important law. It's very important, because occasionally she's really been protecting herself, and not just with us, in the whole world, real owners are very often being sheltered, but I think we're still going to have some concerns that other countries haven't quite solved. What do we do with a legal person who owns a domestic legal person, and this legal person who owns a homeowner is from a tax haven where no data is published about who the natural persons are, because these data are hidden? What do we do in that case? The law knows the institute of a person who is authorized to manage, but we still have doubts as to who the owners of these companies really are. It is one question that is quite old and represents a problem for many other countries, but the question is raised, at least on my part, whether we can have treatment for such legal persons who would have the same treatment not as foreign companies, but as domestic companies and what other solutions we can achieve that no ownership of legal persons could be hidden in Serbia. So much in the first report by the MP's "Free Members" group, is likely to be another announcement ahead of the end of the debate that will concern these other laws. Thank you to all your colleagues and colleagues for your attention, and I wish you good luck in your work today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35456	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The next is MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35457	Thank you very much. Here's another session appointment by emergency procedure because it's necessary to pass some laws. I always get scared when I hear the announcement that there is something urgent, what happened now that we have to get the materials on Friday, so we'll have to decide on Monday, but fortunately, it's another small meaningless, bizarre trick of this authority to prevent the opposition's MPs from entering deeper into the matter to decide at the assembly sessions. None of these laws, of this 22nd point of the agenda, of the decisions and the laws, are urgent that it has to be processed, that we get materials on Friday, when we have to react to them already yesterday, but what can I tell you, it's part of the atmosphere in which the SNS authorities and other parties that make up that coalition are being implemented. We have draft laws that are in the procedure the government adopted on 10 May, so last Thursday, it's a very urgent matter because it has to be implemented immediately, otherwise who knows what's going to happen, 16 April, 16 April, 25 April, 23 April, 10 May, 10 May, 4 May, etc. It's one bad habit. Regardless of the very evil intention expressed by such a single procedure, it will not destabilise people who want to deal seriously with politics in this country to take this legislative action seriously. There are several laws that are particularly interesting, a draft law on railways, safety in rail traffic, interoperability of the rail system, etc. are very interesting laws, but since they were adopted less than a month ago, and there are approximately one thousand pages of text, I think it is unserious that anyone is dealing with it and so it is from the people who, as I heard, are a list of beautiful desires, so there is no danger that this law is adopted at this session and that it does not cause any greater damage to rail traffic than the one that has already existed in that area for decades and for which it is not only this authority, of course, it has been one cancer of Serbia's wounds for a very long time. But let's go back to what the conditions are to comment on and that is the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces adopted on 10 May this year, means Thursday. What is so urgent that something adopted Thursday must be confirmed by the law in less than seven days? What's that? Are these people, the 18,900 people who reported to be able to enter this procedure of buying an apartment under privileged conditions, did something happen to them on Wednesday or Monday last week, and then the government has to respond urgently to that and parliament is also very urgent? No, of course not. These people don't have apartments either or never did, so they lost them, but in any case, it's not a condition that can be called an ambulance. Is that a bad condition? Of course it is. Of course it's bad if in the entire security system, I don't play with state secrets, but there's no more than 50,000 people doing something serious. I don't mean coffee cooks, administrators and these others, bots that have got jobs in the last five or six years, but I mean people who really do serious work in the BIA, the police and the military, they don't have 50,000 for sure, I know it for sure. It is very bad that, according to your assessment, 30,000 of them have not been resolved the housing issue, and according to their reports to this competition or to their application there are 18,900. Is this the right way to resolve their issue of housing? I don't think so. It opens up a lot of dilemmas. Of course, it is necessary to create conditions that people who work in this serious sector, as well as people who work in health care or education, get the conditions that if not tomorrow-to-day, then at least by the end of their working life, come to the conclusion of their housing issue, to have that vision and the possibility of being resolved. It's not done like this. We've had a lot of action on this guy for young couples, so we don't have good results with Natalie. For professors, we don't have any scientists, nor is anyone kept here with that motive, nor are the results scientific or educational in our country such that we can be satisfied. How do you solve that problem? By creating conditions in one country that people working in the state sector receive salaries from which they can organise their lives in a way that is appropriate to that society at a certain historical point. This means that wages in the public sector must be significantly higher, not only in the area of security, but also in the areas of education and health, and I think and culture, in order to have a normal state that is not only geographical, but also in some of its other features should be part of Europe. That's not happening, because it's the attitude of this government, to hold it in a hand, to blackmail, to play with someone's condition in the system – if you're loyal, if you listen to me, I'll give you a chance to get something. If you're very loyal, you can buy as a two- or three-paying minister a house in what's called, at the entrance to Belgrade, the police minister has a house there he bought a year or two ago. Or he can arrange for the state to send money to an aunt from Canada and settle her living issue. It has a lot to do with the debate, because it's a question, it's people who work in the security sector. Or let's say we have super resourceful people who, say, now run the BIA and the churches are building on their expense, let alone the apartment, the house and whatever it takes. That's not the answer. I think the fear of the regime here is what people in the security sector are going to do, how they're going to behave for the next few years, how they're going to react or not react to the temptations that are ahead of us, how they're going to react to the betrayal that's happening, how they're going to react to various things that are inappropriate to their spirit. I think that's the basic reason for the speedy passing of a law like this. Of course, this law does not provide for the problems of these people to be solved quickly or adequately. This is supposed to build 1,578 apartments in the next two years, and the need for at least 19,000 easy calculations can be obtained by one 14 h2, which means one 28 years to solve all these problems. As far as I remember in those services, it's often a well-wanted job internship, so that means that most of those who start working yesterday won't be able to solve their housing issue until retirement, under special conditions offered by law like this. Second question, why special conditions? Well, the minister boasted all last year that the issue was absolutely resolved, all issues related to building permits. So what's the acceleration if you get a building permit right now, on the Internet, tomorrow, as soon as you think, then why do you need special conditions for these apartments? I couldn't see that sketch of the apartment that was shown. I really don't know if anyone's alive in the last 50 years or 100 years bought an apartment by watching a sketch of the apartment, let alone being the main commercial in the quality of those apartments, but never mind, we're not going to do it. It's just so pointless. You gave one bill here to the minister and you said that in 1,580 apartments beginning to build tomorrow-to-morrow and due to be completed by the end of 2020, if I saw correctly, that the value of these apartments is 64m euros. When you divide 64 million by 1.578, it's 40,558 euros. So that's the average price of one apartment of these 1.578. If you divide it by 500, because it's going to be so much the price of a square meter, then you get that the average apartment that's built of these is the average size of an apartment that's built at 81 square meters. It's a lie or it's a mistake. So it's impossible. If it's an 81-metre-square average size of an apartment, that means it has an apartment of 150 square meters, and the law says that 92 square meters is maximum for a four-person, or I don't know which apartment it was. So let's look at that bill a little bit better, or you've been fooled, or there's a desire here to make a lie. Again, 500 euros cannot cost an apartment in both Lebanon and Belgrade, regardless of any part of Belgrade to build or any part of Lebanon. It's the same illogicality of the law. It is absolutely pointless to set a single price for apartments, for the entire territory of Serbia. Here's another dilemma. What about the people who work in the police, the military or the BIA and have an apartment. What's their fault. The fault of their parents, their life situation is that they may have an apartment, maybe have a house, maybe have a villa, maybe have a cottage, three apartments. Why are they guilty so they don't have any benefits because they work in those services? These are all the dilemmas we need to get answers to. The same question for educators and doctors. Medical workers are leaving the country mass. People in the security sector aren't leaving because it just doesn't make sense that they can get out of the country and get a better job somewhere than they do. It is not their fault and should not be punished for it, but the solution to their problem is not to give them false hopes that they will be able to buy an apartment in the next two years that costs 500 euros and is on average 80m square meters, but to give them salaries and conditions, credit conditions where they can enter the business on their own. Maybe somebody doesn't want to have an apartment. Maybe he's got another idea with a good pay. So these are things that are completely pointless. Please take another look at the essence and the way to solve this problem. If there's any danger over the government of responding to the services, I can confirm to you that there is great dissatisfaction in both the police and in the military and in the work of the BIA not only small wages, but first of all, that these are people who make them work, what is not their job. Which makes them part of the political machinery of the current regime. What they put in the highest position, I don't mean ministers, ministers are otherwise laymen, it's everywhere in the world, nowhere in the world the general is neither the army minister nor the police minister. But that other part, the operational part that has to be out of the profession, that's where people who are politically similar or deep bow to someone who can raise them to that position. They make people deal with investigations in a way that's pointless. In public procurement they buy where no one in their right mind would buy what they're buying because someone said because someone had something to do with someone. Because, above all, the police as the service most often in open contact with citizens sees what is being done and what is being misused, and many police people are very unhappy. Unsatisfactory in a justifiable way, and this dissatisfaction will not be prevented by a poor attempt to resolve their housing issue. Of course he needs to be rescued. Of course, the situation is bad, but this is not the solution. The solution is to create conditions, to pay civil servants in this country to be adequate to what they give to the citizens of this country and to live on these salaries in a normal and civilized manner. With VMA you're leaving anesthesiologists, surgeons abroad. It was once an honor to treat yourself on VMA, let alone be a doctor on VMA, and now. We still have this Traffic Safety Act, which is about increasing the speed allowed to move on the roads. I have to commend that, I'm always for creating conditions to get a little faster where you're going, of course and safe. In many European countries there is a limit to 130 long ago in application and I have no objection, I will vote for this law because I think it is a good solution. Not everyone has to drive 130 an hour maximum, only those who know how to do it and who can do it safely for themselves and for those who are in their car and for other traffickers. That's for sure, that lift from 120 to 130 maximum speed is not due to the situation on the roads being better, Madam Minister. When you go to a construction site, look at it, I hear you're on a helicopter now, which is very nice, but sometimes you take the car. I've been exploiting the Beogra-Not very long, very often. I can tell you that on this track right in both directions you have close to 4,000 holes that are larger than the width of the average vehicle's tyre. Holes that are half a metre in diameter of 35.6 centimeters. You have the tracks, you have those, practically when it rains there, you can, if it rains for a few days, there you can suffer the fish and come to feed them only. That under such conditions and 70 km of maximum speed is a lot, let alone 130. It is not only a problem that the newly built backs are falling, as it is called on the highways down the Grdelička gorge, the Sicic ravine, it happens, not every day like you do, it happens here in Slavija to break up what is almost made, but the problem is that nothing is done here, what you have the shares of the Belgrade-Nish highway, and I'm sure it's the case with both the Batrovs and the Subotics, you have parts of the highway that are not touched. So the holes haven't been patched for years. Believe me, I can take you one day, so let me show you a 250 example that I can't take on a highway, that's normally forbidden, you should know something from that area, but you have enough associates so from these services that are supposed to get cheap apartments, let them tell you what's going on there. It's a catastrophic condition. Therefore, I invite you to a) although you have reason not to fear the reaction of the people of the security services, regardless of what you do, they will do nothing that would be outside the law, so that your justified fear will not be punished in the way you think it can happen to you. Find a more adequate way, and these are more adequate salaries for people who work in security services, but also in education and in health care. You go one day, you can go on weekends, I can tell you 250 examples, take you, however you want, go to Nis often for some airport that you want to kidnap Nislim, so we can go and talk about that problem together and show you how many there are, it's like landmines. It can create danger as if God didn't give it some landmine. Over 4,000 holes in both directions, in the right lane, in the left lane, where I drive more often, there aren't that many, but there must be at least 1,000 of them. Therefore, your problem should be not housing for 500 euros, but 5,000 holes in Belgrade-Nish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35458	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35459	Okay, here's the deal. I think it's easy, Zivkovic, I apologize, now I've called you by your name, almost, now you're going to answer me, the MP, to talk about the apartments when the MP in question has resolved his housing issue, I suppose much better than 80% of Serbian citizens. Then it's simple to talk about tenants and people in security services, who literally haven't solved it in decades, couldn't solve this issue. After all, the MP mentioned was in the government, so he had the opportunity to deal with this issue and maybe to help people, maybe some young people from that VMA wouldn't have left if he had solved all this at the time. But since some other and some previous governments have not done so, this government has decided that because of the importance, because they are people who are primarily concerned about us, about our country, about security, we prepare a law like this and we allow them to solve it, but both in the right and the right way, to resolve their housing issue. Since you mentioned several different numbers, mathematics isn't exactly, I would tell you the stronger side, so now I'm going to explain these numbers a little bit more in detail and say that, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, and also for you to have the right information, maybe I was unspeakable, maybe that's the reason. First, I want to tell you that when you're talking about the number of apartments to be built, so in the first phase that starts already in August of the month, we're starting with building 1.578 apartments, that's the first part of the first phase. Successively, for several months as we edit locations and arrange documentation, so in the first phase, 5,203 apartments will be built in these six cities. At the same time, for these two years, we are surveying and working on other cities and preparing documentation for building apartments at other locations in other cities. When you talk about the value of apartments, for your information, those 1.578 apartments, their value that I said today, about 64 million euros, that includes the cost of designing, which is a total of 1,100,000 euros, there are, I can bring you tables and then for every city of the building, the cost on the plot, so all of that is called infrastructure equipment. Where we need to at least invest in the location, it's crow. In all other cities, there will be a need to regulate municipal, i.e. to regulate infrastructure in general. So, within itself, on the plot itself, and on the very edges, and all together, it's worth 64m euros. Then you were also very surprised how urgent it is now? I mean, when they didn't have 30 years of flats, what do they do now so quickly, etc. And of course with various insinuations that it's because they're dissatisfied. First of all, I have to tell you that the idea of this project came from police, military and BIA employees. They are the ones who have proposed to the government that together, we systematically resolve this issue, given that we can now really talk about one completely different budget, one stable budget, a financially stable budget, which can do major projects, guarantee large investments, which is ultimately seen and all that we have done. So, this story of fear as you call us, I think it's pure pathology and I can't answer that, but what's important is the moment we wanted the law to be in front of the MPs as soon as possible, because it's a condition for us to make certain other conclusions, so we can start implementing this project. First, then, let us conclude, among other things, that after the adoption of this law, I hope that we should declare this project of importance for the Republic of Serbia, to transfer investment rights, that the finance ministry should allocate money to the budget. So that's all the things, the steps that await us after the adoption of this law and that's why we wanted it to be as soon as possible. To be perfectly honest, I don't even understand the question of why anyone's having an emergency, when I guess it's the desire of all of us to make everything that's good for our country and for our citizens as quickly as possible. I didn't get the impression that one single member of the security service thought it was bad and that it was bad to create conditions that they could come, to solve their housing issues. I repeat again, we are not closing our doors to this project for one moment. So this is a model of how things can be solved. So that goes for maybe some other categories, which we're going to think about, how this project will continue to be realized in dynamics. Then, you mentioned, and I'll always answer that question of building permits, or catastra, because I think we should all be proud, whether you're these or those political parties, it's completely irrelevant, but we live in this country. Serbia is internationally, in the whole world 10th place after building permits are issued. Serbia was two years earlier in 186. While you were in government, a building permit was obtained in Serbia in seven, eight, nine. Well, once upon a time, there was never a building permit. Therefore, if we want orderly terms and criteria, then we have to deal with every part of our construction sector. So we've been doing it step by step, and today we've come to sort out the catastra issue because these archives in the cataster that have been collected for 20, 30 years, where one object practically endangers another four, five, six, or more pitches is really a problem. I can totally even understand, you didn't understand when we passed the law, so what you would understand now. The question of construction sites and roads, that's another thing I'll always respond to, which is that these governments, so the previous few governments, in the previous four years, have left in traffic close to two hundred kilometers of highways. Those highways are all standard. As I said, this particular government is also working on rehabilitation, the reconstruction of everything that was never ever maintained, but money has been transferred anywhere, so that money is nowhere, or at least it wasn't where it was supposed to be, and that's the roads. For your information, I'm not taking a helicopter, I'm taking a car. I'm going to Nis all the time, just because we're doing what I assume is yours in Nis, it's that we've arranged one of the biggest contracts this year, and it's a contract on modernisation, electrification and bypass lines in Nis, worth 260m euros. That's what Nishli listened to from you when you led Nish, how you'd do it. What you managed to do in Nis was only make people not pay for electricity, so today they have that problem, but you haven't solved that railroad. So I'm going to Nis first and foremost. I'm glad, too, that the airport has reached a certain number of passengers that is amazing compared to, especially at a time when you were dealing with the Nis story. Those holes, as you said, 2000, 4000, 5000, so here, I'm telling you now, they're going to look at that inspection, as you always look at it, but I can tell you it's certainly a lie, but we can count them together, since I've realized you've been calling me three times on the way to Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35460	Thank you, Vice President. Right on the line, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35461	Thank you very much. A few things. First, about my housing question, yes, of course I solved my living issue, but I did. Because only a man with no morals and no cheeks can solve his living issue about the cost of the state 15 days before the bombing begins. I solved my own question a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35462	What does a colleague of Zivkovic have to do with your speech and the minister's response? Stay in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35463	That's what the minister said. She called me for it. The other thing is, the governments in which I participated, dear minister, in the governments in which I participated, you were a lower associate of some ministers. So we were in the same governments, and that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35464	I won't let you insult the minister. Alexander Markovic has a word, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35465	May I, Mr. Chairman? In addition to a bunch of untruths and replacing thesis, it is sad that the previous speaker casts a lot of crocodile tears and loathes about the situation and the condition of members of the security forces, and that is him. He was the interior minister at the federal level and did not solve their problems. He wasn't interested in it at the time. Then by accident, with very unfortunate circumstances in our history, he became Serbian Prime Minister. He didn't solve those questions then either. He wasn't interested in it then either. He didn't care about that at the time. At that time, he was interested in subsidies, vineyards, non-existent vineyards, and of all these subsidies and vineyards, only the apartment in Vračar, a large apartment in Vrakar. I'm glad he just admitted that by means of his own resources he got to that apartment. We know very well how he got to that apartment by damaging the state by 525 thousand euros. There's a difference between us and them. We've finally been systemically solving the problem that's been going on for decades, a few decades. We build while he's kidnapped while he's in a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35466	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. Nobody mentioned you, colleague Zivkovic. Let's move on. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35467	Thank you. The MP group has had enough to welcome the idea of making it possible to buy a cheap apartment for soldiers and cops who don't have an aunt in Canada. The idea, however, is the only thing we welcome to this occasion, because the way the government imagined to implement this idea in action is something that, in our opinion, only deserves criticism. There are three fundamental objections to the proposal of this law. First, to not clearly define the criteria by which the right to purchase these cheap apartments will be awarded at all. Two, to not clearly define the procedures for applying for the purchase of these cheap apartments and under three, to practically suspend two current laws, primarily the Public Procurement Act, and two, the Planning and Construction Act. As for the criteria, this law defines the right to purchase these cheap apartments as all those who are indefinitely employed by five state authorities and institutions, meaning that all persons employed indefinitely at the Ministry of Defence, at the Ministry of Justice, within the Department of Criminal Sanctions, then, employed indefinitely in the BIA and the Republika Srpska Army. Also, the right is for all those who are retired within these five state bodies. It is further said that for the purchase of these apartments they can apply and compete and those who already have an apartment in property, but which is not suitable for their needs regarding structure and surface. When you look at the way this criterion is prescribed, you see that this is about an extremely large number of people who can compete for these apartments. So this must be about tens of thousands of people, if not a larger number. On the other hand, today, Minister Mihajlovic presented some information in his opening statement, and also a few minutes ago, that he had raised some information that in this first phase we were building about 1,500 apartments, that a follow-up to the first or second phase for which the funds had already been provided would ultimately amount to about 5,000, 5,200, it seems to me, apartments, as well as that more than 18,000 people have applied to these apartments. As the number of 18,000 people says, we can't even get close to, no matter how many countries this is going to be and how many countries we have to do it, to help everyone to meet their own living need, but to make sure, it's our opinion, that with this limited number of apartments of about 5,000 or 1,500 in the first phase, so let there be even 5,000 in the next five years, it's only 10,000 again, to meet the needs of those who need those apartments most. In this sense, we believe that these criteria are too broadly prescribed, that these criteria should be drastically narrowed down to reduce the number of those who at the very beginning can even apply for the right to get the right to buy these cheap apartments. In that sense, we wrote and proposed some amendments. We think that by narrowing down these criteria, first of all, it will not give false hope to some people who should certainly not be a priority at the moment, and that if these criteria were prescribed, they should make sure that priority and priority are given to those who are most loyal and faithful within these security forces. So, those who have been around for many years, if not a decade, have achieved some longer work hours at their workplace. A very problematic criterion has been prescribed. I don't know if it's intentional or accidental. I'm inclined to think it was inadmissible, that it wasn't intentional, but that it simply turned out to be the definition of that criterion. It is in Article 3(5) when a person who does not have a permanent residential need is defined, it is said to be a member of a security force or a member of his family household who does not own an apartment. You know, I guess the intention was to say that if a member of the security force, not even his wife or child have an apartment in their possession, then they are considered not to have a permanent residential need, i.e. that if a wife has an apartment in her possession, then it is not considered a person who does not have a permanent residential need. However, as it is written, it can be interpreted in practice, if someone has an evil intention, that a security officer has an apartment in his possession, his wife does not and therefore she has the right to compete. In that sense, I draw attention to this. We have submitted an amendment to make this right. Unless this was really an intention, and I don't think it was an intention, to make this right. We also believe that another reason to tear down these criteria, to write in more detail, is the fact that in this way one wide open door is being left for some possible abuses. I'm not saying that there's an intention to abuse, I want to believe that there's no such intent, but at the same time I'm saying that we don't have to open the door at all for that possibility, there's no need, everything can be more clearly prescribed. Let's just say, as prescribed, I can imagine a situation in practice where someone who's spent a lifetime, for example. in the private sector and he has two, three months left until retirement, now through some relationship, ties, party lines manage to get a job within one of these five state authorities, at any job, any administration, and the last three months before retirement he spent in those places and retired from there, he can apply for these apartments, as this law was prescribed, after that. I don't think that's right, and that's another reason why we should make sure that the criteria are so prescribed to come to soldiers and police officers, who have already devoted a minimum of a decade of their working life to work within these security forces, that they are somehow rewarded for their work and motivated to spend the rest of their working life to retirement within that state body. The second major remark was related to insufficiently clearly prescribed application procedures for these apartments. So, within this law, while I was reading the bill, it wasn't clear to me first who interested people should apply, when they should apply, when the deadlines for applying start, who's going to unite the lists that are likely to be made individually by these five different state bodies, who's going to schedule these pooled lists to these locations, according to where they live. It's just not prescribed at all. In the opening statement, I hear from the minister that people have already applied. So there's already 18 grand and something reported. My question – on what basis? We haven't passed the law yet, and people have already signed up to use the law. That's inadmissible. The charter says there's a rulebook that's hidden and the military union, even though it tried, has failed to come, which sets out some criteria. I would ask the Minister or confirm or deny that this rule exists at all. My question is – how is it possible for people to apply for something that has not yet been brought into the National Assembly? Also, I believe that once we pass this law, after the media has sent it out, after the general public finds out that these cheap apartments are even planned, that the number of these interested and those who want to report to this competition will increase drastically and that we will no longer have only 20,000, but more than tens of thousands of people who believe they have the right to buy these cheap apartments on more favourable terms. The third important observation is the circumvention of existing laws. So this law is a kind of lex specialis and I can understand that idea in terms of if we want to build cheaper apartments, we need some lex specialis to minimise the cost of building these apartments. This law also stipulates that taxes on all submissions and forms related to the construction of these apartments will not be charged. It's just fine for me to cut the price of apartments that way, because it's still the budget that's being poured from one budget to another budget. What's wrong with me, first of all, is suspension of the Public Procurement Act. In a country suffering from corruption, this is unacceptable. I'm not saying there's a intention, but I'm saying there's a possibility, although there shouldn't be, that someone abuses this. I can imagine a scenario in which, without public procurement, the business of building these apartments is assigned to a party close to the company, that the costs are being knocked up, that money is being drawn out of the budget into a party nearby construction company, and then further out of it, the surplus of that money is being poured into the party pockets, and then the pâtés that are being divided into the pre-election process by the hungry people. I say and repeat, I'm not saying that there is this intention, I'm not saying that, I can't know that, but I'm saying that this law leaves that possibility. I appeal not to do that. I appeal not to suspend the Public Procurement Act. The other thing that this law suspends is certain provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction. I think it's completely unwarranted. I believe that if the minister answers this at all, she will say that the reason is to speed up some procedures – giving a building permit, this – that, my answer in advance, because I don't believe I will get a replica, is – if these procedures are too slow, then they are too slow for the complete construction sector. If some of the provisions of this Law on Planning and Construction are problematic and make it difficult to build these apartments, then they are problematic and make it difficult to build apartments of all construction firms in Serbia, then we need to change those provisions, to facilitate these procedures, not only suspend certain provisions for this need. My last big, huge grudge, which is probably not as interesting to the citizens of Serbia as it is to me as a national MP, is the fact that this is all carried out by emergency procedure. In the materials that we have received, which are scarce, in which I also resent it, we have not received the plans of these apartments which the minister proudly showed in the direct transmission of RTS, nor have we received the information that it is not just 1578, but that a total of 5200 and some apartments, we have not received the information that has already registered 18,000 and I do not know how many people, so we have not received any of it, and we could not have been informed or prepared for this debate, but now the application, by the way, we find out something. What we see in these materials is that this idea and this project are scheduled for 2011 and that the first meeting of the team was held at the end of 2017. Now it's an emergency in four days to bring it in. I ask the Minister's question as the Government's representative here – if it wasn't urgent from 2011 to 2017, why is it urgent now? What were you doing? Let's not say since 2011, because you weren't in power back then, but since 2012, you've been in power. You've had five, six years to run this slowly and tensely, and not to rush it now in four days, and to keep a lot of things unsettled and unspeakable. Speaking of these materials, I have to single out an absolute hit, which is the part where the ministry explains why this proposal never passed a public debate, since the procedure provides that all laws go through a public debate before they come to the Assembly. The legislator stated that the bill contains sensitive data that could endanger Serbia's national security and therefore could not be discussed publicly. That text of the bill is the same text of the bill we're talking about here today. I ask you -- are we here now discussing this same text, in fact, jeopardizing Serbia's national security? And how did you ever imagine that anyone, anywhere in one country, had laws that had secret clauses? So, I think that the proposer of this law owes us an apology, to the MPs, for such an incoherent explanation of why there was no public debate, and since you owe us an apology, he also owes it to the citizens of Serbia that we represent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35468	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35469	Because of the citizens of Serbia representing both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the party I belong to, several things that were false, and in fact they're true. First, the Public Procurement Act is not suspended. So, I'd like to ask you when you say things like that to read nicely. There may be some things that have been imagined, but nothing has been suspended, it says in Article 9. – the open procurement procedure prescribed by law governing public procurement is applied. All that is in this law, a very important law, is in line not only with all the ministries, but also with the Public Procurement Administration, has reviewed the Republic's legislation, as has also given its positive opinion to the Public Defence and the Republic Property Directorate, etc. The other thing where you're wrong, and I don't want it to be misunderstood, is reporting. Not reporting, but showing interest based on a survey conducted by the National Security Council Office, which was founded in 2011. The advice was then established, and our task force for this large, very significant project was formed in the second half of December 2017. Therefore, we have worked very hard, very quickly and efficiently, and therefore it is so urgent and quickly ahead of you in parliament. You said among other things – vague criteria and unclear procedures. So, one argues that everyone can buy apartments under this law. You want those criteria to tear again. The bottom line is the next one. We have 30,000 security forces that haven't settled their housing issue in decades. This law allows us to solve this problem. According to some first polls, there is interest, so some 18,000 people. 5,000 apartments are being built over the next few years, but also, as this project is being realized, we are going to a larger number of these 5,000. Furthermore, what you also said, no one here gives an apartment. No one gives anything to anyone, these apartments are bought. In that sense, there are no lists, so now that, you know, when there was a score, so who's going to get an apartment, who won't get an apartment. So this is where the apartments are bought, the state doesn't give away apartments and the money comes back to the budget. I wouldn't go any further, I think these were the most important and completely wrong interpretation of the reasoning you've read, I believe it wasn't intentional.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35470	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35471	Thank you. I read the bill very well and clearly. I disagree with that and more, I believe she owes me an apology from Minister Mihajlovic, alluding to the fact that I did not understand the law, she tended to read only one law in which the Law on Public Procurement was mentioned. There are other parts of the law in which the law is mentioned and where it is definitely suspended. The second thing, of course, is that no one is assigned an apartment, of course, that the apartments are bought, but what is assigned here stands clearly in the law to decide on it by the minister. It's awarded the right to buy a cheap apartment. Not everyone can sign up to get that right to buy an apartment that's so cheap. There'll have to be some rank lists. There are more interested people, there are more needs than the number of apartments that will be built and no matter how many apartments we build, no matter how many cheap apartments we sell, the number of 30,000 minimums, and I think that number is even higher, those who need to resolve their housing issues over and over again will remain the same, because new people who also do not have a solution to their housing needs will be hired. So, only if we increase the number of apartments that are being built, if every two years we build 10,000 apartments, we will succeed in reducing that number. Otherwise, we'll be operating all the time with the same number. Also, I didn't get any comment on why there was no public debate about this law, and why is the argument so scandalous, which we got in the way?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35472	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35473	About the public debate. So on the documents proposed by the National Security Council Office, the designation was "confidential" until December 17th. However, there were also certain parts, therefore, in the interest of members, whether BIA or some other organisations, parts that were not to be published. We're talking about national security. I've listened to you before when you said that no law should have a mark of confidentiality, but, excuse me, when we talk about national security, and that some things must have a mark of confidentiality, not only in our country, but also in every country in the world. But, I understand, you're up for something else. I'd like to go back to public procurement one more time. I ask you best not to say things that are not true, because of the citizens of Serbia. What adorns this government is transparency and transparency. There are public procurements and there are tenders. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, certain government conclusions are made publicly, and will then proceed to publish procedures, public, open procedures for the construction of these apartments. Your trendy stories about whether someone will be employed there or here to get an apartment, there is no, I repeat again, rank list. So, everyone who meets the basic criteria, which are just so wide, and the employees of the police, BIA, the military, can get to the apartment. Will the apartments be any more? Well, there will be more, but we have to start with this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35474	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35475	The President-in-Office, Vice-President of the Government, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues, one of the most important proposals on the agenda is the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, which so far shows. I can look at this bill in one wide context. It will not only provide a roof over the head of security forces that have not solved the housing issue, but is of great importance to strengthen the entire national security system. It has been estimated that around 20,000 police and BIA employees, as well as about 14,000 military members, have not resolved the housing issue. They will have the right to apply for the purchase of these apartments and it is good that this problem has been addressed in a serious way. The creation of a special law will help overcome any problems that may arise during the implementation of the project, and the goal is to successfully complete this job and make it as effective as possible. Since construction of housing complexes is planned at several different locations in different parts of Serbia, which would begin at about the same time, we will allow the adoption of this law to solve all issues systematically. This means that regardless of the location, we will get the uniform conditions and procedures under which the construction will begin. It will also speed up the process of issuing a building permit, as well as public procurement and land expropriation procedures where there is a need for it. One of the cities where these dwellings will be built is the city from which I come, and that is the king's. I must point out that a large number of members of the Serbian Army live in the Kingdom, that the headquarters of the police administration, which covers the city of Kralje and the municipality of Vranjska Banja and Raška, is the headquarters of the County Prison, the seat of the BIA and that this law is of great importance to the citizens of the Kings who are employed in these security services. The first estimates were that about 900 of these housing units were necessary for the King, but after later analysis, it was found to be around 640. Local self-government has offered a good location, I can say excellent, 5.5 hectares in the village of Ribnica. That's where these apartments are going to be built. It is significant that in this part of the city traffic infrastructure is not overloaded. Since the King received more than 30,000 refugees and displaced persons after the wars in the former Yugoslavia, I believe that the choice of this location is of paramount importance, precisely because the focus will be moved from the city core and what this housing complex will be done in a completely new location, which will certainly become an attractive residential zone for the future. By the way, the city's centre's about to be disbursed. This law stipulates that local self-government is required to provide a design document, i.e. a technical-urbanist document on the basis of which it is possible to issue local conditions and a solution to the building permit. In meeting these conditions, the city government in the King has already begun to work. The Commission for Urbanism, Construction and Housing-Communal Action adopted a plan of general regulation and gave it public insight, so I expect that after that deadline, the Assembly of the City of Kings will meet and adopt these changes and that by the end of June we can get official location conditions for building apartments on the intended surface. The bill also provides for local self-government to provide and finance infrastructure construction to the very location where the housing complex will be built. I will again set a good example of the city of Kraljevo, where the city of Kraljevo has already considered it, and it is planned to set aside around 190 million dinars, so that traffic infrastructures with rainwater canals, a water network, as well as missing connections will be built. It is exceptional that the funds for the production of technical documentation, as well as other accompanying elaborates and analysis, will be provided by the state, as well as funds for municipal and other infrastructure within the housing complex itself. I believe that the priorities and conditions for the purchase of apartments established by this law are the result of a good assessment. First of all, I think that priority should be given to those security forces who have not resolved their housing issue, and only then do those who already have their own apartment or house, who believe that their apartments or houses are not a satisfactory quality for life. In addition, I believe that the prescribed conditions and restrictions are just, which is that a member of the security service and cannot apply for the purchase of these cheap apartments if he has sold the apartment, i.e. the immobility, or if one of the members of his household has done so since the entry into force of this law. It is also good that the apartment cannot be estranged within 10 years, and that it is the same time limit for someone to work in this state body for 10 years. It must be taken into account that specific construction needs to be completed before the start of the work. It is certainly necessary to modify the transport infrastructure, clear the ground, do land work, secure land for the addition and storage of construction materials, to place temporary facilities, installations, etc., somewhere it will be necessary to ensure the safety of neighbouring facilities, as well as a number of other jobs. That is why the law envisaged a good option, which is that a special building permit can be issued to carry out preparatory work before the very issue of a building permit solution for high-building buildings. This will have a positive impact on the efficient implementation of this project. The construction of these housing complexes will not only address the issue of employees' housing in security services, but I think it will also give certain positive effects on the overall economy. I am sure that this investment, deployed in several Serbian cities, will be a significant momentum for construction, a business branch, which suffered a significant blow nearly two and a half decades ago due to sanctions and the consequences of the transition of the economic system. This way, domestic construction operations will be employed, as the law clearly foresees the mandatory participation of domestic enterprises. Also, employment will be increased, and our construction material producers will benefit, as the law stipulates that out of the total construction material, which is foreseen by the specification, 80% must make up construction material, equipment and installations from domestic producers. Also, local self-government will benefit, as these housing complexes will be built on their territories so that they can count on collecting income from property taxes in the future. At the same time, one of the positive effects of this law is an increase in credit activity within the banking sector. I suppose, and the estimates are like this, that a large number of security officers will solve the housing issue, i.e. to make purchases of these apartments through bank loans. I think this option suits everyone, because it's better for everyone to live in their apartment and pay for the monthly war by paying off their apartment than for each month to allocate a certain amount of money by renting someone else's immovableity. I expect the first construction sites to be opened in King's, Nis and Vranj in August. Of course, what I expect in the future is for this idea to be realized, so now it concerns employees in security services, but we should consider realizing this idea in the future for both young married couples and scientists. We will discuss here and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road traffic and I expect the proposed amendments to improve the conditions for the transport of passengers above all. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has done one study and based on this survey, we see that it has initiated solving some of the problems. First, it's a problem relating to the non-compliance of the driving order with the inter-urban traffic remote. A survey conducted by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce shows that nearly two-thirds of the cases do not harmonize the order of driving with the remote. At present, the law stipulates that the driving order must be in line with the remote, but in this table display we have seen that there are certain deviations, however, these deviations are minor. So, the changes in Article 63 where Article 2 is deleted which says that the driving order must be in line with the remote, we create conditions that insisting on applying certain provisions does not negatively affect the business of the carrier and the interests of passengers. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on cross-border transport operators, as they will maintain the existing volume of work, and will maintain the quality of service towards users, especially for those day-to-day users of inter-urban traffic, above all for people who go to work daily, for students and students. It is important, I must also point out, that in the coming period, to regulate the inter-urban transport market in such a way that, in cases where it has, it would suppress the work in the gray zone, in particular in some cases on lines that have ceased to be maintained and I feel that these illegal carriers in certain cases, except that they do not pay taxes, great damages such as unfair competition can be done to city carriers and taxi drivers. It is necessary to tighten the controls and suppress this phenomenon, so that these carriers from the gray zone are translated into one legal zone, into legal flows, of course, with all the conditions prescribed. This proposal for a law in one part applies to inspection supervision and thus achieves that the measures to be taken by a foreign carrier have the same effect as the measures taken towards domestic carriers, unless the transport is carried out in accordance with the rules, so that there will definitely be no advantage over foreign carriers in relation to domestic transport. We witnessed last week's protest by taxi drivers, and I think the Ministry of Traffic did well in that situation, showed good will, the will to conduct a quality dialogue, to talk to taxi drivers, and that's the only way we can solve these problems. In fact, the goal is not to impose some legal standards, but to establish certain standards and to come up with solutions that are of quality. It is necessary, I say, once again, to establish standards that all carriers must meet, and which would be in a position to meet the needs of end-users, i.e. citizens, to find a solution that would preserve the quality of services, and on the other hand that taxi carriers would also be satisfied with the conditions of work and market rules. Therefore, a clear rule for all and healthy competition. It is good that the Ministry also recognised the need for taxi associations to have their representatives in the coordination body to monitor the application of the rules and implement the law, and I must point out that this law addresses another issue, which is the issue of issuing licences for the provision of cell services. At the beginning of the year, we had one situation that almost 90% of the bus stations could not meet the conditions for obtaining this license and it was a problem that concerned the conditions of ownership for obtaining a licence and they were those bus stations that were primarily in public property. I'm going to set an example right from the King, from my city, where there's a very complex situation. For example, in the King’s land on which the bus station is located is in state property, the conversion was not carried out, although the request was filed, the building itself is mortgaged, and the company that owned this bus station Autotransport Kralje is in bankruptcy. Based on this complex example, we see how important these amendments are and that they will solve the problem, because the problem would actually arise if the bus stations couldn't get the license, in this way they couldn't even charge cell services to passengers, or passengers, and they would become ordinary stops, and this bill doesn't actually prescribe a condition that a company, a legal person or an entrepreneur must own that it has a bus station and therefore is easier to get a license, and we will prevent a large number of bus stations from being shut down. When we talk about the Road Transport Freight Act, I must first and foremost point out the fact that 50% of the goods are transported by road, and that is one important information to know that we must constantly improve this area by correcting, or supplementing, legal standards that regulate it. We will thus create an orderly market environment and precise rules of conduct for all. We discussed the Traffic Safety Act here recently. That's when I said, and now I'm going to repeat that this is a very dynamic and living area, and we always need to coordinate it with existing issues. That's why I support the proposal to increase the maximum speed of highways from 120 to 130 kilometers per hour. Today Serbia is actively working on building traffic infrastructure and the quality of roads is incomparably better now than it used to be. We are witnesses that we have daily work on Corridor 10, Corridor 11. I must also point out that our state summit on a recent visit to Turkey has been agreed by the reconstruction of the regional roads of Novi Pazar-Tutin, Novi Pazar-Senica, as well as the construction of the quick road of Sjenica-Tutin. For those of us inside, it's very important and we know how much quality regional roads mean to us. I must take another look at this, and I hope that it will soon begin to build, i.e. the merger of the Pojate-Preljina highways, which is particularly important for the citizens of the Kings, Triestenik, i.e. on this whole move between Preljina and Kruševec. I'll go back to amending the Traffic Safety Act. By increasing the maximum speed on highways by 10 km per hour, we will coordinate our legislation with the legislation of certain EU member states, with Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, France. I must repeat that we today cannot compare this current quality of the road, as well as the performances of the cars that we drive with those from a few decades ago. As for the proposed amendments to the Law on the tightening of penalties for violent driving, I support these amendments, and I believe that all traffic participants simply have to have a habit of obeying the rules and if they comply with the regulations they will not actually come into the situation to pay the fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35476	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35477	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, the government's representatives, watching this agenda today's session, I began to question myself if I saw one of the same laws from session to session on the agenda, and all of this is starting to look like the day of the groundhog. So on the agenda, we have today a law that we had two months ago, so it's about the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, not to mention other laws, like the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters and some other laws. So, the work that doesn't produce any results continues to pass the law a kilo, I don't know how else I could say it, without adequate preparation, without public debate, in a united debate. On the other hand, I have to express my doubts and that these people you hire are probably more political officials than those people who are professional and competent, and then we have a situation to adopt from year to year these same laws here in the Assembly, and they come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this law that I mentioned -- about amendments to the Transport Safety Act, the change in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and here in 2018, for the second time in this year, two months ago we had it here in debate. So much for the seriousness of the work and the government of the Republic of Serbia, and for God and Parliament, where the idea seems to be that as little talk about legal proposals as possible, there is no voice from the opposition, that we are listening to any amendments proposed by the authorities to their own laws and members of the laws they propose. But, behold, it is also ultimately the result of the state of affairs and the consequences of these laws and such a way of working, without system and without plan, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel the most. As for the laws on today's agenda, I must also say that at first there are certain contradictions and very large ones. In one part of the bill, which is in points 10, 11 and 12, concerns the objections that the Republic of Serbia received from the International Organisation for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of International Terrorism, or FATF, Serbia was put on the blacklist because of the way it works, or because it did not apply all those recommendations that were adopted by 35 of the world's most powerful countries six years ago, so in 2012. One of the objections is exactly what I was talking about, which is the adoption of the law by emergency procedure without adequate procedures, public debates and Lex specialis. The first point of today's agenda is again what Lex specialises in? The law by the reputation of the law that you adopted regarding "Belgrade on Water" and other similar ones that established this power and all government in 2012 and really raises the question of why? Wasn't it normal in one normal legal procedure, in one such important subject as building apartments for security forces, but maybe for some others we do it right, because I don't see what's the rush. Well, the President of the Republic, three years ago, if I'm not mistaken, promised flats at the price of the 380-euro squares here, it's been three years, the fourth year since that promise, and now back on the nose, we're entering the procedure for the adoption of a law that's marked as a Lex specialis and it's a legitimate question why? I didn't realize by reading the law, why we have to do it today. Of course, I heard a promise in a pre-election campaign during the Belgrade elections that the construction of apartments would begin in March and I asked a parliamentary question to you, Madam Minister, and I thank you for your response, you are one of the few ministers who answers the question of MPs in time and time. Why didn't the construction start when you announced in a campaign ahead of the Belgrade elections that we were building cheap apartments without even having the law yet? And now, here comes the emergency procedure law, and, of course, based on the experience we've seen so far, everything that's entered the emergency procedure didn't have much of a great ending. At the very beginning, I would like to say that neither I nor the People's Party are against the construction of these apartments, subsidized for members of the security forces, nor our SDS parliamentary group, the NS against it, but also how we are against it, but also how we are against the way you want to do this. The intransparentity of the realisation of the plans that you represent for the citizens of Serbia continues, and this is one that continues. So, you announced the construction of these apartments, you listed the locations, before that, with the term "very urgent" you sent a survey to representatives, or to people who have the right to make these subsidized apartments happen. Well, here's, for example, the M.O.P. where you listed micro sites, which are out of the law. You have listed cities in which it will be built Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Vranje, Kraljevo, but there are no locations. Well, here, I will read for the public that in Belgrade it is Ovca Banja, Municipality of Palilula, then Kukarica – Makiko Polje, Novi Sad – Jugovićevo, Nis – Business Block “Tesla”, Kraljevo – Ribnica settlement, Kragujevac – Dedino hill, Vranje – settlement “Asambair” near Pete School. So there are also deadlines in the survey list when this should end from 2019 to 2022 depending on locations. The price indicated varies from 450 euros to 550 euros in the polling list plus VAT, of course, which are to be counted on by members of the security service who want to compete with members of the security service who want to compete for these apartments. It is absolutely necessary to support them, but I warn them to think a little before they compete and decide for themselves what might be a better solution for them. Here, why? A while ago, more precisely in July last year we saw a statement from the city, if we talk about the location of Belgrade, or Makishko Polje, Mayor of Sinisha Mali and City architect Milutin Folic, that a new architectural urban solution was chosen for the Maquis Polje. The BK group's statement, i.e. Bogoljub Karic, boasting on Twitter, was that the construction of 800,000 square meters was agreed with the mayor of Belgrade in Makiška Polje, so-called. The "Tesla City" has also been named after other municipalities around Serbia to build such complexes at locations designated by local management in towns and municipalities in Serbia. The price they then listed in these business areas, i.e. squares of housing units in Tesla City, is 500 euros in wonders. Well, now it turns out that Bogoljub Karic can build apartments at the same price as the state of Serbia that will work so on. subsidize the construction of these apartments for members of the Security Service. I am asking the question now with fear – is it not the same project? I don't know that. Please answer me, but it's too much coincidence that at the same location and the state is building apartments and BK Group is also building apartments. In particular, if you have a very problematic issue in this Lex speciality of yours, which is that the investor does not have to be the Republic of Serbia, but can be a company of business. Furthermore, there is no indication of how much they have staked in this business society, whether it is the company established by the Republic of Serbia or whether it is, I do not know, the principle of "Beograda na Voda", so Serbia will have 30% ownership in the company, and the Arabs or some other 70%, and that is a very important issue, and you have not defined it in the law. Anything you more precisely define the provisions of the law that will make it more applicable. Of course, as regards public procurement and everything that arises in this project, of course, it is the most discussionable, because it can be justified to suspect who will get these jobs, how they will get these jobs, whether this project will indeed be designed to provide housing units to the people who deserve them, who work for this country, or whether the project is the ultimate goal of getting rich and using state money, under the influence of helping members of the Security Service in the Republic of Serbia. We have some other contradictions in the proposals of today's law session, so here we have the next law I want to talk about, which is the Law on the registration procedure in the immobility cadastre. I had the opportunity as a member of NAED to meet in detail and a member of the Economic Cocussus alone, with the proposals of the law, and I signed a number of amendments with colleagues from the Economic Cocuss who hope you will accept. I support that when the cadastre needs to work more efficiently, but we've also heard about fast-track offices like we're hearing today about the introduction of an e-shalter, a citizen's notebook where citizens will end up in one place. That's what we heard six years ago about the office for quick answers and we haven't felt any benefits from that office that doesn't exist, and it's been six years. As far as catastra is concerned, it is also interesting to compare the law with the Law on limiting the availability of assets in order to prevent terrorism, as well as the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners, especially those laws. That's what I'm asking you because today we're adopting laws that need Serbia to finally, I hope in June to take off the FATF blacklist where we are as a state suspected of money laundering and financing international terrorism. You actually, interestingly in these legal proposals, you called that list a gray list, the black list became a warm list in your interpretation. Thirty-five powerful countries put us on that list together with North Korea, Iran, Trinidad, Tunisia and Yemen and other countries. The only country from Europe they have put in place has put Serbia and one of the laws that should remove these anomalies, the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. On the other hand, you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have been unable to determine for a year who is the owner and who is illegally building on the Kopalnik, on the Pančić top of a 1000 square-square facility, without a building permit, there is no telling who is the investor, a woman mentioned not knowing whether her name is Snezana Mitkovic or Snezana Matkovic. At the address that's registered in the ID, she doesn't live here, and who knows it's in that address. In Bruce, who is territorially in charge of local self-government, they say no one has heard of the company, and the company is called "Pančić kop" in 2017. An illegal facility has been built and you have actually answered correctly the questions that journalists have asked you about this construction, but I cannot understand that in one such location someone who has obtained permission to build 150 squares of an assembly wooden building can build an object of hard construction with an armature and concrete and that the state of Serbia is not responding to it. Not that he's not responding, but you're issuing a solution to destroying that lawlessly erected object, but nothing happens. We're going into administrative procedure, why? Because some of these investors were phantomally able, and with the services of Katastra, which we are talking about today, divided the plot into two parts, so the object is no longer on one, but on the other, and in doing so Katastar wrote down such an object illegally built on Kopalnik in official records of the House of Immobilities Office. In addition, he did not point out that it was a building that was built without a building permit, which was built on the principle of wild construction. So, the serious situation is to answer that question, if we need to talk about the law on the records of real owners. First, let the state determine who is the owner of this illegally erected building on the Kopalnik. Is that the Snow White Mitkovic and Matkovic nobody knows about? Did the Bruce Municipality with the famous president of the municipality help and give certain solutions to move forward with the construction? Are the owners of those for whom the media speculated by Zvonko Vesenović, Zelja, Zoran Milojevic and other SNS officials and fighters? Simply tell the public that we know whether all laws apply equally to everyone in this country, or whether they are close to the authorities and who have a certain interest in the representatives of the authorities can do whatever they want in this country. It is also very interesting that we received notice of my colleague Mark Đurisic's question to the police minister that they have no information that any criminal charges have been filed for illegal construction, or construction without a building permit in this case. Well, should someone file a criminal report? What's the police doing? What are the inspection services doing? Your inspections, Mrs. Mihajlovic, have found that this is illegal construction. And what did the police do about it? She said, "Well, there's no criminal record, we can't handle it." So the police should do what they say about their jobs and without any of the citizens of Serbia complaining about it, because you are obliged to take care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the interesting thing about the bill in this session is, this law that you change each year, the Transport Safety Act. A little while, Minister Mihajlovic said that we are here to submit the amendments "Delete" and that we now have 2,500 amendments to "Delete" to obstruct the work of the session, in the same way as the representatives of the government do with pointless amendments and praises of this government. But I will tell you that even two months ago at a session where we also had the same law on the agenda, as the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to limit the maximum speed on the highways in Serbia to 130km per hour. Then you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, as a legislator of the law, responded in the following way - in the process of passing a valid law, no proposal was accepted for the maximum speed of driving on the highway to be 130 kilometers per hour, which is precisely explained by the provisions of the Law on traffic safety on the roads. We believe that, given the sensitivity of the issue of speed, as an influential factor of traffic accidents, the proposed change should be the subject of a public debate. In this context, it would be more comprehensive to consider such a proposal in the process of adopting a new road safety law, which has been planned in the coming period. So there was no public debate, no new traffic safety law on the roads. It's only been two months and our amendment that you refused at the previous session to raise the speed limit at 120 nm and 130km you refused and today you propose to amend the law with the same point. So don't, at least admit, if nothing else, how does work here in this House and how do you treat the amendments of the opposition. In addition to these "wipes", there are amendments that and how they can fix legal proposals, if you would like to listen to them and respect them. Then we probably wouldn't have that situation if we were sitting in a session, like groundhog Day, we were adopting one of those same laws. Here's to this short time, as long as I've been in this home for two and a half years, I don't know how many times I've talked about the same laws that change over and over again because of the bad procedures, the bad ambience and the way these laws are being adopted. Finally, I end up, because we also have certain agreements on the agenda of today's session, so we also have an agreement on international civil aviation, since you mentioned a little hour at the airport, how pleased you are with how many passengers are passing through that airport today, I would ask you since 2012 we have been listening to the announcement that the airport "Morava" in Kraljevci, or Ships, as well as the airport "Ponikave", will be put into operation and started to serve civil aviation, whether and when this will happen because here is the sixth, seventh year of your government, or they are in a package together for the airport, which President Vukic said you let develop at the heart of the Belgrade airport, which you gave to the French, because they probably know better know that they are managing Belgrade airport than our country? That's why the state must know better how to operate the airport in Nis, than the Nish citizens knew by now. Probably these two airports, which are also local in nature compared to Belgrade airport, should not develop, as well as these parts of Serbia, where these centres are in which you interpret that Serbia and all its parts should develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35478	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35479	First, at the very beginning, let's be more specific. I'm sorry, you may consider it precise, but I think you're making a very inaccurate statement. First, you told the "Nikola Tesla" Airport – you gave it to the French. We didn't give anything to the French, maybe in your time it was all nice, now nothing is given. There are contracts, it's a concession, primarily due to the necessary investment in this airport. Neither the airport is privatized nor given to anyone. That's the first thing for the citizens of Serbia to know. Secondly, if we don't talk about the values you mentioned as an opposition, no one will be interested in the concession, there won't be 10m euros. Here, a billion and a half, that's the results. Then, another inaccuracy. You say, "We're passing the law today." As far as I know, we're discussing the proposals of these laws today, and I hope we have a constructive debate, so we still do today, i.e. You, the government adopted, you still don't pass the law. Now let's get going about all this stuff that you've just mentioned. When you speak of illegal construction, I can understand that the MPs of our ruling party, our coalition partners, are talking about it because they are not responsible for any single illegal building, unlike the opposition MPs, for whose time everything that is illegal in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was built. So when you talk about illegally built buildings, of those two million, it's 80 percent during your reign. Next, when you mention Pancic's summit, you can file a criminal report, immediately. Every citizen in this country can file criminal charges, anyone, for every illegally built facility, says the law. So if you care so much about it, go ahead, file a criminal report. As far as I'm aware, a criminal report has been filed, as has also been made for the facility, no legal solution has been issued. More specifically, a request for legislation has been rejected. Just to be clear there, the Serbian government, the state of Serbia through its institutions is doing everything. Why doesn't this end any further? Because he's in a administrative dispute. By the laws that you've passed, if we were going to change those laws now, then we'd say, on purpose, that's what you're doing, there's no freedom. So, according to the laws you've passed for our judiciary, there's a administrative dispute going on and we have to wait for it to end, it's about Pancic's summit. Secondly, you say these laws we have proposed are contradictory. It is controversial only when you do not read everything carefully, as we try to really present to the MPs and give the laws that we have carefully made. The laws that are before you, most of them, throughout 2017, have been working on these laws. They're the least written by the minister. They are written by all those who are partners in lawmaking, in the sense that they give the best quality in this bill. Look at the working groups, look at the public debates that were conducted under all these laws. After all, you once mentioned the Law of Registration in the Catastre, which is certainly made for a year and a half. I know, and I look forward to several amendments proposed by the Economic Cocussus being adopted as well. Then you're talking about the law on special law. I want to inform you, regarding the locations, you may not have known, to repeat it once more, but it also clearly says in the explanation, the location for Belgrade is no Maquis field. The location for Belgrade is Banja Ovca. It's a location for Belgrade. It says very clearly that it's the main location where it starts working. Polling or interest, therefore, is the interest of all those who are employed in security services, who have shown their needs and it is normal to place prepared locations before them, to see who is interested in any of the locations. So that's not true. Then, onward, honestly, I really thought that you would commend the government for having so many laws. You object that there are so many laws. Now, I don't know if it's a problem to read the laws, or if it's a problem of some other kind. And, somehow, from 15 minutes of your debate, I really think there should be some fundamental objections to these laws. I haven't heard any more fundamental remarks about the laws that are in front of you, so what you said simply goes against what is written in the law itself. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35480	Thank you. (Alexander Markovic: Replica. Alexander Markovic answered. On what basis are you answering? (Alexander Markovic: Replica, mentioning the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35481	Thank you. When there's no arguments, when there's no critical criticism, then there's all this noise and all the nonsense that we've had to listen to. The previous speaker raised the question of identifying investors as the concept provided for by this law. If he had read the law, as could not be seen from his discussion, Article 3 indicates very much who the investor is – the investor of building a housing building within the housing complex is the Republic of Serbia or a company established by the Republic of Serbia, which has the rights and obligations of investors in accordance with the provisions of this law. Furthermore, the next position, an investor for building municipal and other infrastructures, within the housing complex is the Republic of Serbia. So there's no room here for any mystifications or speculation. It's very clear in this law. Furthermore, the issue of the amendment has been raised. I don't know how many amendments we've heard here again. Yes, it is true that all 20 SNS legislative proposals have been tabled by 405 amendments, and the parliamentary group of the previous speaker, which numbers only five MPs, has submitted these same legislative proposals to 1,358 amendments, and you know what they say? They say it's wiped out. Those are your genius amendments. So much for that. There was just one more question, the question of real owners. Yes, and we are interested, we have long been interested in this and we cannot get an answer as to who are the real owners of Jeremic's millions in the campaign he had for the Belgrade elections. Who are the real owners? That's the question you need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35482	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35483	Thank you. As for the fact that I object to a large number of laws, as the minister said, does not stand, but in 15 minutes, 20 minutes, a respected minister, it is not possible to discuss six, seven or eight legislative proposals, as you yourself know, nor commit to them in detail. It is only possible to work in the debate in particular, where we from the opposition are disabled because we listen to the amendment authorities until time is spent. So it doesn't suit you to say that someone hates to read the law. As far as the law that you say is you, who are you? I never passed any law until two years ago. You're in power. All the laws that are bad, well, I guess you should have changed them. He's six years old as you rule backwards, well, I guess you promised the citizens that it would be better when you came to power. As far as the Copalniks are concerned, you're saying a criminal report has been filed. I read you the answer, which is the explanation of Minister Stefanovic who says no criminal charges have been filed. You say you think it is. As far as the location is concerned, this is a questionnaire received by security officials and workers, where it says – circle the regular number in front of one of the currently available locations you are interested in buying an apartment under a housing programme for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, the locality of the city of Belgrade, Palilula, Ovca Banja, the locality of the city of Belgrade, Čukarica, the Makiška polje. I read what your government gives, I make nothing up. Finally, as far as the concession is concerned, you will only be responsible for the interests of Serbia either achieved or not. That your authority isn't currently responsible for any illegally built facility, that says this facility at Pancic's summit, which was built during your government. And as for security members, they will have to pay, and let 500 euros be the apartment that will buy and pay the state of Serbia, unlike Alexander Vukic, who received it for free in 1999 and did not pay a single dinar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35484	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35485	I understand that this MP has picked up all the best from his boss. He says a lot, a little fact. But let's do it one more time. First, any location that it will be and where the apartments are built, none of them will start construction until we have a public call and a tender. I don't think there's any more open procedure than that. So, not closed, but open procurement procedure, which I think is very important. Secondly, when you mention it, and I will always answer your story about the concession, I think it's one of the best projects Serbia has recently completed, so it started and ended. Again, I'm not surprised why you comment on the concession that way. I'll remind the public that your boss Vuk Jeremic is, among other things, against the construction of the highway, so I can see why you are in some way against investment in our "Nikola Tesla" airport. Seven hundred million euros only for investments over the next five years, most of these investments will be made at the airport, according to the fact that we are indeed the centre of Southeast Europe. As for the Office for Quick Answers, which you also mentioned, to remind you, we have solved this problem, established a united procedure, the Law on Planning and Construction adopted in 2014, and then, the electronic issue of building permits. You were clapping, too, at a lot of conferences when we were doing it. Therefore, there is no reason for you to speak differently now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35486	Thank you. The right to replicate the party's president, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35487	Thank you. I expected to get an answer to the question – who are the real owners of Jeremic's millions? He said everything, but he didn't say it, and he can't say who the real owners of Jeremic's millions from the pre-election campaign for the Belgrade elections and for the president's. And, Jeremic said himself, he admitted they were from abroad. We're still just interested in whose exactly are they? I hope we get an answer to that question. There is no need, as far as I understand the previous speaker, for concern when it comes to housing of 500 euros, which are the subject of this law, of course, because Jeremic's apartment costs a million euros, and probably there is no interest in this bill at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35488	Thank you. Right on line, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35489	Thank you. First of all, I would ask the minister, since she was left unsaid in that part, what about the structure of a company that can, by law, lex specialis be an investor instead of the Republic of Serbia? It is very important for the citizens and for the public. As for the fact that Mr. Vuk Jeremic was against some highway, he never will be, but it is also against, and so am I, a priority, because to you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and your authority is more important to build a highway to Tirana than to build a highway Moravski corridor from Pojat to Preljina. And that is the fundamental difference between us and you, because today, unfortunately, today, you have the money of Serbian citizens and you decide on priorities. We will never put those priorities, as you put them, but, above all, we will be interested in citizens living in central Serbia. As far as these campaign funding funds are concerned, so to speak, we delivered our financial report neatly. That's where it all says it. And, unlike you, we didn't spend the money of Serbian citizens you pulled through a variety of corrupt things. No one's been paying us, like you, eight thousand payments per famous 40,000 dinars with an explanation from your president of the state that probably two of them met in a bar, so this one said I'd pay 800 euros, and this one said you can't by law, come on, you two by 40,000. It's an explanation of the president of the state and the way you see how legal procedures should be respected. You, as SNS, are violating the laws of this country as the biggest party to send a message to Serbian citizens and calling us out of the opposition that we have broken something. If we are, where are your services? Why aren't they working? You're in power for the seventh year, so arrest whoever broke the law. Do something. Don't just whine, for seven years you rule, you have all the time these seven years to correct everything that's ours and anyone who's guilty of arresting and condemning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35490	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milena Turk, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35491	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because the previous speaker again, because it is his manner, by replacing the thesis, trying to deceive the public and simply lead the citizens astray. He obviously knows how the roads should look, but while he was in power, he didn't go much for it, he didn't try very hard, so we had a situation where only in the pre-election campaigns he owed a nice municipality in 2012 for 60 million, 2016 for 100 million, so only a pre-election asphalt, a reverse application, which doesn't last very long, but it serves for the elections. There's a story that in a village so many times, it's the same way, it should be seven meters high, which is not the case. When we talk about priorities, I don't think the priority was...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35492	Go back to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35493	That's exactly what I'm talking about is how he spoke hypocritically, and maybe he wasn't in power at the republican level, but he was in power at the local level where some decisions are also made. When it comes to the Moravia Corridor, we will now do all that the previous government had no power, no political will, no knowledge, no skill, no money for that same Moravia Corridor, because if they did, they would have expropriated at least one meter of time instead of buying orchards and fields on the path of the future Corridor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35494	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35495	MP, don't let me hear from Vuk Jeremic right now that you think our citizens in Kosovo shouldn't have access to the highway. You know how, he was the most responsible in that Tadic government for the International Court's decision on Kosovo, the most responsible. I still think you should take care of how you say it. Another thing, I'll remind you of one important fact, since you said something about money and party financing. Maybe we have thousands of dinars, right, and you have millions of euros, and that's what citizens also need to know from where. When you talk about the economic society of this law, for citizens to know, the company is placed as a possibility, the founder is the Republic of Serbia, the owner of the Republic of Serbia 100%. So there's no story of it being someone else and, I repeat again, everything that's being built is built on open, public calls, or tenders. Nothing hidden, maybe it used to be, so we didn't have highways until four years ago finished or other regional roads, so we had a negative GDP during Tadic, so we were on the list 186. There's nothing like it now. So things change the way they do, since you mentioned years of ruling us from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35496	Thank you, Vice President. Miroslav Aleksic answered. This way we can go on forever. Thank you for understanding. The Minister answered all your questions carefully. Let's move on. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35497	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, co-workers of the ministry, I will begin by saying that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposed laws, as well as international agreements that are on the agenda today. I'll keep my presentation on only two or three laws. First of all, in my discussion, I will look back, as soon as possible, on the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. The JS Group fully supports the proposal of this law, and we believe that after a long period of time, or a few years of discussion, whether we will not pass this law, or the bill, which will surely be adopted by MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that we will give the possibility to employees in the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Justice, in the Ministry of Justice - the Department for the control and enforcement of criminal sanctions, in the BIA that, in a special way, under favourable financial, or economic conditions, they come and resolve their housing issue. What I am interested in on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, Madam Minister, given that you said, in the public opinion that in the first run, apartments will be built in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevna, Vranja, whether in the next period of time, I suggest and suggest, such apartments will be built in smaller towns, smaller towns on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, where they also live and work, and have no secured and resolved housing issues of these resors that I mentioned? This is also very important for the citizens of Smederev, Pogorjevac, Jagodina, Paracina, Kruševec and not to list the other cities, even less or less per population. What it is, in my opinion, is a little bit of a discussion, or maybe it's not a discussion, but I want to hear the answer, is a ranking list of interested in buying these apartments. For example, will one who lives and works in Pozarevec, and is interested in buying a suitable apartment in Belgrade, be treated equally with those interested in Belgrade? I think that this way we need to find some criteria on which to define who has the right, the right priority to buy these apartments and solve their housing issues. The second question, second suggestion by the JS MPs, is that those people who have a sort of settled housing issue, but not solved in such a way as to adequately match the number of family members. For example, some members of these services who have the right to purchase apartments have an apartment of, say, 35 or 40 square meters, and according to the criteria they have an apartment of 65 or 70 square meters. Would he be able to give his apartment to the state and pay the difference between the apartment he gives and the apartment he wants to buy? For example, it's 30 squares, and this apartment that would have been evaluated and would have been, if I said, sold to someone of interest to whom that apartment in that square fits. Think about it, if you haven't already thought about this proposal and eventually get into the process. Another question, there is a provision there in the law that local self-governments that offer locations for building such apartments, and are not fully equipped, or have locations, and are not fully equipped, they must bear the costs of equipping those locations. There are local self-governments that have locations, but they don't have the money to equip that location. There the state should in some way help these local self-governments where they are free to build, and that is particularly relevant to smaller places, smaller cities, and enable them to provide communally such locations and to allow apartments to be built at these locations. This is particularly interesting because in Serbia, outside Belgrade and these large centres, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, the real price, now the market sales, the apartments are 500-600 euros per square. So, these apartments in those smaller places for members of these resors that I was talking about and that it says in the law that they get apartments for not 500 euros, but maybe 400 euros. You understand very well what I'm talking about, because there are cities, I claim that the apartment now, the market value by the investor who built that apartment, sells 500 euros, 550, possibly 450, etc. I've already talked about it and once again to point out, the question is, who has the right to buy a bigger apartment? Does the one whose number of family members belongs to the apartment, the example works, of 54 squares, that's a smaller two-room or one-bedroom, depends on how it is categorized, and wants to buy an apartment of 72 squares or 92 as it says here? Does he have the right to buy such an apartment, or in Belgrade for a relatively decent price, you know very well and better than I do how many square prices are at individual locations in Belgrade? Is the one who's interested, I repeat, the question has the right to sign up to buy a 92 square-square apartment, and it belongs to it, there's one child for example, it belongs to 55 or 60 squares? That would end my discussion about the first law. These are purely my suggestions, and therefore the JS parliamentary groups were well-intentioned, to think about it otherwise, as I said we will support this law and we think this law is very good to solve the housing issues of these members, of these services that were unable to resolve their employees' housing issues in a certain way. When it comes to the Traffic Safety Act, we welcome the decision to raise the speed on the highway to 130 kilometers. I assume that, Madam Minister, she is the punishment who has 131 to 140 instead of 120 now will be between 130 to 140, I see it in the law, not touched, and I welcome it, who wants to drive fast, let her pay, unless she drives very quickly, so she can lose her license and make a prison. In this way, we are equating ourselves with countries in our environment, which also have a speed limit on 130km highways, and have no more quality highways than Serbia currently has. But I know it's not the subject of this law, since it's in public today, and I read that the Minister of the Interior has made a statement that an extraordinary technical review will not be done, so I ask that in a very quick procedure and that amendment of the law you give to the Assembly, that I would simply satisfy it. I think it's a little hasty, too, I understand the need to protect road safety, but we need a huge number of Serbian citizens to drive cars older, not because they want to drive those cars, but rather because they're not in a financial capacity to buy a new car. Also, I would like to say one sentence about the Law on the Recording of Real Owners, I think it is good that the state recognized the problem that exists in the Republic of Serbia, and that we must finally imitate our legislation in the laws of the European countries to which we seek, and that we know who is the real owner of certain legal entities and that it enters the central register in order for the controls to be better, that the fraud would be much less, than so far, because we are simply entering the Central Register of European Countries and it will be easy to determine who the owner is, whether he has transferred ownership stakes to someone else, etc. Therefore, let me conclude my discussion by saying once again that in the day for the vote, JS MPs will support all proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35498	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35499	Thank you for supporting these bill proposals. Just a short, location-related, location equipment, so it's the state that's certainly going to communally equip what's on the plot itself, on the perimeter itself, that's going to be done by local self-government units, we think that in terms of costs it's quite possible to do. When you said whether they could compete for much larger apartments than those they belonged to, some of the safety forces had previously had any apartment they owned, on the contrary, there was just so much law that they could apply for whatever size the apartment wanted, no matter how it used to be according to some other rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35500	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now determines a break of up to 15 hours and 30 minutes, so then we continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35501	We're going back to work. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35502	Thank you, Chairman. We have a large number of laws, not only in the area of construction, but also a large number of laws concerning all types of traffic in the Republic of Serbia. The first law on the agenda, which brought great attention to our public, is the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. Apartments for members of the security structures, which are provided for in this law, should in a fast and accessible way enable residents and members of the Ministry of Interior - police, members of the military, or the Ministry of Defence, as well as BIA officials and the Department of Criminal Sanctions. In particular, it should be pointed out that we had predicted that the bill's proposal had been envisaged and that the issues of retired members of the security structures, which so far had no solution to the housing issue, were resolved. There are different measures of the Government, i.e. competent state institutions to address housing issues for their employees and some of these programmes still exist today and the Government supports them through various subsidy programmes. Security forces, as one of the factors of preserving national security certainly deserve the care of the state and this particular Lex specialis offers one human and one responsible solution and the state and creates stimulating conditions for members of the security system, providing the possibility that, under equal conditions, they solve their own living need permanently. Also, stimulating conditions will have all the other participants in the realisation of this project and certainly the intensification of housing always triggers the economy and all those economic activities of close construction, which also supports GDP. About this law and the draft law on the registration procedure of the immovableity cadasar, they will speak a little later of my colleagues, and I will focus my discussion on traffic law proposals. Perhaps the most common legal act that the Government is referring to in the National Assembly and always questions why sailing again, is the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. At the annual level, the European Union amends and complements two directives. Directives governing navigation on inland waters and Directives which regulate technical rules for inland navigation vessels. In line with the international changes and additions of these two documents, and we are harmonising our laws. It is therefore necessary to commend the Ministry in terms of the urgency and adaptation of our regulations to EU standards. Also, our parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group, will support the International Convention, which the government has addressed to ratification, as well as bilateral air traffic agreements, which relate to the establishment of lines with the Maghreb states. The Republic of Serbia is a significant hub of Europe and our geostrategic position should be the basis for much more intensive development of rail traffic. Railway traffic is also the cheapest, most environmentally acceptable still as a form of transport and certainly the railway is something that will contribute greatly to the development of our economy. By adopting the new Law on Railways in 2013, a new concept of the railway system was announced in Serbia. The adoption of this law formally begins the transformation processes of the railway system in order to achieve effective, innovative and safe railways. With the changes and additions we made in 2015, we broke up with the traditional model of the organisation of the railway structure in Serbia, which unfortunately was both inefficient and inert, and introduced formal conditions for the management and development of the rail system in line with the EU system, or the concept of trans-European transport networks, in line with our 2012 law, which establishes a single European rail market. With the new railway structure, we then carried out the separation of work on the transport of passengers, the transport of goods and certainly maintenance of infrastructure and formed three new enterprises which each, in accordance with its respective competences, controls and actually implements the work. With the same changes and additions, the Railway Directorate was then designated as a regulatory body and as an institution that has the role of the national security body. This package of new laws, as new laws are ahead of us, further harmonisation of national legislation with EU legislation is being carried out and the work of the Railway Directorate itself is being extended, interoperability and safety of railways are being separated, i.e. transposed into two different laws. The separation of this law, the applicable Law on Safety, Interoperability of Railways, was important in order to clearly implement the Interoperability Directives and the Railway Safety Directive, and in terms of the role of the Railway Directorate itself, which has different roles in the safety of railways and interoperability. We understand for the directorate itself that this solution was important, because it will certainly affect its effectiveness in implementing the rules. We will, of course, support all three laws as a parliamentary group, because we believe that these three laws will also contribute to the improvement of rail infrastructure but continue to develop rail traffic. Following a series of changes to the applicable Public Roads Act, which was adopted in 2005, there was a need for a new law that would be more precise to determine the legal position of roads, to prescribe conditions and how to manage road infrastructure, a way to protect the maintenance of the infrastructure itself. The applicable law has not sufficiently regulated the jurisdiction of state roads and roads in the capacity of the AP and local self-government, nor has it provided for the maintenance of untegorised roads in any other way. This bill provides for more detailed conditions for the construction and reconstruction of roads, giving new solutions, because it is also in line with the Law on Planning and Construction. The papers in this law, and I would specifically say, are in Chapter XI of the bill, which prescribes special conditions that public road must meet from the point of view of traffic security. In the traffic safety system, prevention plays a key role. It implies the action of all entities and as part of technical disciplines in the field of prevention. Significant tasks should also be tackled by road and road infrastructure experts, as the impact of the road on traffic safety is inevitable. The responsibility of the pathway, i.e. the road manager, has been partially regulated by Article 156. Traffic safety laws on the roads. In line with the 2008 EU Directive, this law introduces provisions on the management of transport infrastructure, making the road a factor, as one of four road safety factors, formal and cover. It is good that a new law introduces an assessment of the impact of the road on traffic safety and the road manager's obligations to ensure, when reconstructing the existing and building new road infrastructure, an impact assessment of the road on the safety of public roads in Serbia. In addition to being overestimated, the road manager will be obliged to ensure the revision of the first-class national road project from the point of view of the safety characteristics of the road for all projects of the construction of a new or for projects of revitalisation, i.e. reconstruction of existing ones in all phases of road design. In addition to the audit, traffic safety checks on the road will have to be provided periodically, once every five years or targeted for public road shares based on risk maps. The mapping of risks, which determines major risk shares and an independent road impact assessment of solutions related to security requirements for tunnels and projected tunnel management of more than 500 metres, will certainly contribute to the overall security of traffic on our roads. The amendments and additions to the Law on the transport of goods and changes and additions to the Law on the Transport of Passengers have resulted from the three-year application of these two laws and the need to change some of the solutions, such as the Transport Institute for its own needs or solutions relating to the licensing of bus stations. At the very end, I would like to mention the law that I've already mentioned, it's the Transport Safety Act and the Proposal for amendments and additions to the law. Otherwise, in this spring session, we adopted a comprehensive amendment to this law. We have several amendments ahead of us, and most of them refer to criminal provisions, but there is a provision that, we can say freely, both passengers and drivers in Serbia are looking forward, which is a change of rules that has long been waiting, an increase of speed from 120 to 130 km per hour on highways. For this solution, as I said, it's been waiting a long time. It can be said that conditions have been acquired, particularly infrastructure, because, I will remind you, our roads, or our highways so far, have not been designed for high speeds and this solution confirms that certain shares on the road network in the Republic of Serbia follow the conditions to increase the limit to 130 km per hour. As I said in my presentation, we will support all proposals of this law, and the other laws will be spoken of later by my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35503	Thank you, colleague. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia has been trying for 18 years to become a member of the European Union and to that end there is so-called. The process of harmonising our internal right, i.e. harmonising the rights of the Republic of Serbia with EU law. That is why we have put the interests of the EU ahead of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, at least the legislators, in our legislative practice for 18 years. What is contradictory is that the body of the Council of Europe dealing with corruption, which is called GRECO, has made recommendations to the Republic of Serbia in which, among other things, it says what needs to be a rule - that the adoption of laws by emergency procedure is an exception rather than a rule, and in the Serbian parliament it is quite different. What's strange is that we have a unique discussion of 20 points of the agenda. We have a situation lately that we have a war in the Assembly of Amendments, where it is a struggle to reach the time for someone to say something, in which the ruling majority predominates, which is also contradictory. We are in no position to have good and meaningful amendments and enough time to analyze any law. That's right in today's debate. As for the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, nothing can be said against the idea. Of course, the security forces need to be resolved by the housing issue. But the question arises – what is this law currently resolving? If we've heard that there are more than 35,000 people, where the survey has said a little more than 18, so half, to accept that it participates, and how many of us have apartments that are now being built and that will be in the next four years? So 5% we can just solve. It's the least important location for us, since it's the price, but what does it get and what does it solve? We also listened during the previous period to announce the construction of cheap apartments and for 380 euros per metre square, for young couples etc. What happened to that? When are we going to solve the problem of building apartments for all those 18 and some thousand people who would accept to participate? At this rate, we'll do it in maybe 20 or 30 years. Security forces have different conditions for retirement than people who deal with other activities, often very young, especially in relation to some working age in Serbia, are retired and mentioned in the first members of this law, but are not mentioned in the structure, in a member who deals with the structure of apartments. So I can't figure out what particular problem is being solved by this law, although the SRS is not against building cheap apartments for security forces. Also, in this diverse debate, we have the Law on sailing and ports on internal waters. We had this law on the agenda at the beginning of this call, 2016. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments and has devoted very seriously to the law's analysis. Of course, it's all rejected. Now we have a situation that is on the agenda of amending laws that about all of our amendments are incorporating into the law, formulating them differently. This is some indication that it should pay attention to what is being brought, what is being written and a little more attention to the interests of Serbian citizens, and not to the need for the law to be passed as such. There is one interesting thing about waterways, i.e. in Serbia, a potential problem, if not already a burning problem. We are in negotiations with the European Union on accession burdened by the problem of Kosovo and Metohija in recent years and that is the issue of all issues. But in order for a country to become a member of the European Union, it must have a consensus of all members and must not have unresolved problems with any member state. What's going on with Croatia's Danube border? International law is clear on that. When the borders between the two states on the river borders go in the middle of the queen, i.e. The so-called land line, not the river border. What are we gonna do when we're asked to change our borders and lose about 10,000 acres of that territory? I think we should deal with this question before it waits for us. Of course, what I have already said is that in order to harmonise us, it is important and important that, in the last pages of these arguments, it is in agreement with the directive and this, with the regulation of the team and the team of the European Union, and we do not care as much as it is applicable and as much as it is in our interest to pass such a law. We've seen this on two examples that are now current. The first thing, we had a cab driver strike in Belgrade the other day, and Belgrade was blocked. So it takes a city to block and create such an atmosphere to make people understand, i.e. to make our government understand what the problems are. We can solve the problems in a few ways. First of all, as far as taxi drivers in Belgrade are concerned, they are justifiably protesting. Why would we have a company that is not registered in Serbia, which is not paid by the tax here, which is derived from Serbia, which deals with the business of taxi drivers? The taxi driver is required to have both an aesthetic examination and a different regulation must respect than the other drivers and participants in traffic, and what they must apply and respect the members of the so-called ". Cargo companies? So in order for us to start dealing with problems, we have to have strikes on the street first. Also, as far as the price of taxis in Belgrade is concerned, the city prescribes a price which, of course, can be talked about whether it is unfair or just, greater than in other cities in Serbia. What is specific and different from any other activity – it is not allowed for taxi drivers to give a discount on driving. The principles of the free market are such that they function by supply and demand, and we do not allow competition on this taxi market, and then we complain that it is expensive, that there are many taxi drivers, that some strikes are unwarranted, etc. I don't know what the problem is to introduce something like that. If there's any other action, for example. A bakery, so a baker with some other baker can compete at the price of muffins or bread, so he can find his place on the market, why don't we let the taxi drivers do it? This morning, we listened to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who said that this regulation of two technical reviews will not be introduced into Serbia. Also, so, we first saw, first we had to wait for the odym of the public against that charge so that we would come to our senses and see in fact that it wasn't in our best interest. And now that we're not worried about safety, since that was an excuse for introducing two technical tests for vehicles over the age of 15. If it's really a security problem that we have so many vehicles that are over 15 years old and that they have to go to two technical tests, which are going to be more detailed now, etc., then we should subsidize the state and thus show the state to take care of its citizens and the security of traffic, and not to see just what someone likes, what they don't like, and that's why we're making our own regulations. This whole debate shows us only this thing that we've been seeing here for 18 years, is that we don't care about our laws and our legal system, we only care about harmonisation, the opening of chapters, etc. We also need to see some messages to listen to that coming from the EU. If the EU budget commissioner says that in the framework for the EU budget in 2021 to 2027, I quote - no single euro is foreseen for enlargement. Who do we fool with our laws and regulations? What do we want to do with that? Who do we like? If French President Makron says that the EU will not expand, which means that some bureaucrats in Brussels say that we have made some progress, they have patted someone from the government here on the shoulder, he says just keep going and you will join the EU. No one's chosen that bureaucrat. The question is which of these people who are now defiling us here like Jean-Claude Junker, Johannes Han, Federica Mogerini, etc. Who will remain in the EU in EU structures at a time when Serbia should become a member? Who's going to choose them? And where the other people who also had messages here, grades, Serbia's progress, etc., such as Van Ron Pen, for example. What are they doing now? What does their words mean to us when they no longer have anything from the EU? We need to be wise, to take care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not of the EU interest, because we will never become an EU member. All those chapters to get us to open up, to close everything, to change all the rules. The question of all issues is Kosovo and Metohija and the status of Kosovo and Metohija, and who cares whether this or that law is in line with EU regulations with the directives if we have a Kosovo issue ahead of us. We should tell you what it is, what this government's policy is. Will we give Kosovo and Metohija independence in exchange for EU membership? And by then, and if we don't know that, I don't know if anyone knows, that's what they're asking in those conversations. Should we sign Kosovo's independence to exchange ambassadors with Kosovo, etc., so that we become a member of the EU and that is clearly said? And we're not making progress, we're making laws. And where did we go, what did we do? So, for six years now, the current set has been in power, and I don't really see what's different about it than the government that was until 2012, that matrix is exactly the same. So we should take a little care of our interests, what our legal system needs are, not what Serbia is required of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35505	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35506	I'm glad to see the enthusiasm among my colleagues from the SNS. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished associates, respected citizens of Serbia. Please, fellow president, I don't know why they're nervous when I didn't even start my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35507	This is the usual atmosphere of parliament. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35508	Yeah, the usual when someone from DS speaks, of course. I'd like the minister to answer me, which is why the empty SNS benches are so empty, they've never been more empty. Is it because of the government's announced reconstruction? Is it because of some cloaked boycott of SNS members, as it is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? But we are not interested in what you are doing among yourselves, but we are interested in the consequences of Serbia's citizens suffering because of it. What kind of citizens of Serbia suffer the consequences because the prime minister's saddest day since she deals with this job, the day she clashed with Nenada Popovic, not the day FAP was shut down, not the day Gosa was shut down, not the day that 50,000 children go hungry to school every day because parents can't provide them with free lunch. Well, good. I have a agenda ahead of me. I have 21 points of the agenda in front of me, and not to be constantly criticising DS, unlike previous calls, these laws are consistent, they have ties with each other, so as you know you're proposing 50 laws, one from agriculture, the other from the security sector, the third from the medicine and health sector, this is not bad, which is what we were hoping for, and what we from the opposition and Serbian citizens are used to. The first item of the agenda is the draft law for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, and the minister said earlier that MP Zivkovic could talk about it because he provided himself with an apartment. Well, does that mean that we other MPs who don't live and we haven't secured our apartments in Belgrade or anywhere else we can talk? I must remind you that we here are all representatives of citizens who voted for us or our parties, so this is a political topic of a couple of excellencies, regardless of who has what or who doesn't have what. Whether members of the security force are in the MUP, whether they are in the Ministry of Defence, the BIA, should find and provide apartments. Yes, you should. And, the DS has no problem ever saying what's good, as we said at the previous session that it's a good thing that you continued to have our army involved in multinational operations and peace missions. That's the policy we've been up against since we were 90. And, yes, it's good that the members of the Serbian Army, the Ministry of the Interior, provide and get a roof over their heads, because the dissatisfied soldier, the soldier and the officer who provides our country, who is thinking about whether he has money for rent, whether he has money to send a child on a trip, whether he has money for electricity, is simply natural, can't do his job in a safest way, as none of us can, if he has such problems at home. Thirty thousand security officers have not solved the housing issue. That's the problem of the entire country as a whole. It is also a problem of the SNS, but of course it is a problem for all of us who have been in power for some period from 2000 to 2016. This isn't a daily political issue, and I don't want to blame anyone here. Yeah, the biggest guilt is SNS, because for six and a half years, here it is, almost seven years already in power, but of course the authorities before it, which everyone has not solved at least 500 apartments for members of the security service. If we know that there are about 50,000 security officers, it's a disastrous number that 30,000 of them have not solved the housing issue, and that 18,900 of them, if I haven't made a mistake, and you correct me, competed, or signed up to solve your housing issue. I am glad to be working on decentralisation and to be built in the first two years of 1,500 apartments in Nis, Vranja and Kralje. Of course it is necessary for the whole of Serbia to be decentralised, that the whole of Serbia develops evenly whether you live in Surdulica, Srlig, Subotics or Belgrade, you should and must have the same conditions for life, the same conditions of life. You say 64 million is the total value of the works and that the price of the square is 500 euros. I'm asking a logical question who, how and from what, is a member of the Ministry of Defence or a member of the BIA is to raise 500 euros per square? If we take the average as a minimum of 80 square meters, that means that a soldier should set aside 40,000 euros, as you say at these subsidized prices. I'd like to know, I was the president of the municipality and the vice president of the municipality, the MP, I'd like to know, I can't wait to pass that property law, who now has 40,000 euros to single out and pay for the apartment? I wonder if it'll be maybe for 20 years, if there's any deadlines on which that payment will go, or if it has to be paid at once? I'm sure no member of the MUP or the security force in general has, not 40,000, no 4,000 euros in his wallet, not even enough money in his wallet and fuel in the tank, let alone to spend this much money on his apartment. We need to see, to get to the essence and how the living members of these ministries and the security forces. We know that 72% of military civilians have an average profit of 22,000 dinars. Twenty-two thousand dinars. Eighty per cent of Serbian Army members have an average earnings below the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. How can they become credit liquid if you want them to provide apartments in this way? Eighty-two percent of those people left the army, which we're talking about now, as well as the police, did on a personal request, because they can't make ends meet. Soldiers and cops have been cut off, soldiers and police officers have been reduced, and since we're talking about former members here, they've also been reduced pensions. Well, I'm just curious about how the compatibility between this law is between what's really going on in bills, refrigerators, and safety-service tanks in general? Of course the price of the apartment is not the same throughout Serbia, of course it is not the same price of the apartment in Surdulica, Vračar and Subotica. Of course, all the members of the MUP and BIA and the Ministry of Defence need better working conditions above all, they need higher incomes, higher wages, bigger diaries, so that they can decide for themselves where, at which location and which large apartment they want to afford to their own family. It's not a job problem, these people do the most responsible, most serious jobs as well as doctors, as well as many other professions. It's not a job problem, it's a profit problem. You can't make people work for 22,000 dinars all month, especially the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Defense. These people risk their lives to ensure the safety of us, our countries and our borders, and I think there's a fundamental difference. Security sector members need to increase their incomes, raise their salaries, increase their daily living, and then decide which part of the city they want to secure their own apartment in. I know that this is probably not possible at this time because the SNS has owed the state 10 billion euros and it is recognised by Minister Vujovic, you do not have the need to do so. By adopting the 2017 budget for 2018, Minister Vujovic admitted that nine billion euros have increased Serbia's debt. It's 25.5 billion now. Dear citizens, and for all of this to be like you said, which is not compatible with the state of the M.O.P. bills, how do these members of the SNS trust you? Explain to me how they can trust you when you promised them two years ago, i.e. Three years ago, building an apartment of only 380 euros and none of it was? Serbia was supposed to build 380 euros per square metre and this was promised by the then prime minister and the president of the SNS, and from that, my dears, there is nothing to date. How can they trust you to build these apartments for 500 euros now? Simply, you have no consistency in what you say and what you do. I don't think about you personally. I mean, first of all, SNS in general. You, Your Honor, have promised that from Belgrade to Novi Sad, I will be on my way to Novi Sad in a few hours, in half an hour. In half an hour. Can you answer me what happened to that? That's what you promised in 2014 that the railway line, from Belgrade to Novi Sad, would arrive in half an hour and I would like, not because of me, but because of the citizens of Serbia that we know what happened to your promise? I support, of course, a maximum rate change from 120 to 130 and there's no problem with that. In most EU countries it is a limit of 130, in some countries there is no limit, although I think we should have it, that it is fine 130 per hour. I'd like you to answer, what have you achieved, what effect have you achieved with measurement, if a man goes from Belgrade to Nis? I was also in Prokuplje last night, Meroshini. Today I go to Novi Sad, I travel every day to our beautiful country, and I don't know if you've seen car columns standing in front of a toll ramp waiting for time. They drive 150, 160, if they don't get caught by radar, they come to the loading dock, they see that they've rushed 10 minutes. If he's got gas stations, they drink coffee, if he doesn't have them sitting in cars. I've taken a personal picture, and I've got a column on the phone of the Great Plane of People waiting outside the charging ramp to get there on time and so they don't overstep, so please tell me what we've achieved, i.e.. What have you achieved with this measurement? Comrade Marinkovic, I am really asking you to silence your SNS colleagues so that we can work in a quality and valid way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35509	Just keep going, don't worry about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35510	I don't mind, of course they can't concentrate on me, please don't. I'd love to talk about preventing terrorism, if you can answer me, since we had Minister Vulin here last week, who didn't know the answer, i.e. He didn't want to say the answer, there's a man named Miloradovic and he's an assistant defence minister. This gentleman named Miloradovic has his own company "Meena 500", which sells weapons and military equipment directly from our factories to the NN persons. Who are those faces? Who's checking it out? Did they pass the security check? Why can't I get an answer to that question? I've asked through the MPs' questions, Minister Vulin three times. We didn't get an answer, and you know that according to the Rules of Procedure to be answered. When the minister was here defending the BIA laws; the military and the defence, I asked him, Mr. Miloradovic and he did not find it appropriate to give me answers. I think that Serbia and in that domain should be a transparent state, if the assistant minister is doing something not transparent, it should be removed. I think the members of the Department of Defense are above all thrilled by the way Minister Vulin acquired his apartment. I'm sure all members of the Department of Defense want to have an aunt in Canada and that, beware, not your aunt, but your wife's aunt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35511	My friend Milojic, it really has nothing to do with the subject. (Radoslav Milojic: How does it not matter? It doesn't make sense. I can't, I said at first, I won't allow it absolutely, that way of communication. (Radoslav Milojic: Give me back my time.) ) Go back to the topic, discuss as you have done so far, there is Minister Mihajlović to answer every question. Thank you for your understanding, please. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35512	Mr. Marinkovic, this is about providing apartments for members of the Department of Defense. That's Minister Vulin. I'm talking about how he got to the apartment and maybe he can give the recipe to members of the Department of Defense that they too through the wife's aunt provide apartments. I don't know where you see the incompatibility between those two things, but good. You said, Minister, that Serbia is the tenth in the world to issue building permits and, of course, that we as a state-run party, members and MPs of the Democratic Party want Serbia to have the best results, because we are the opposition of the SNS, but we never are, nor will we be an opposition to the state of Serbia. I look forward to that Serbia is 10th place after the construction permits are issued, but I must tell you that we are far behind the architect of the City of Belgrade, Folic, who is probably the first in the world to issue construction permits, and I think you know in what way and under what conditions, and I ask you to talk today and about it. How much will it cost to sign up with a public notebook? That's what I want to know. Is this incompatibility like incompatibility when we passed the Law on Electronic textbooks, which the Democratic Party advocated in 2008, we were just aware of the financial situation of parents? Of course, a parent who has three children, or two children, does not have every child’s money to provide pills or a computer to use electronic textbooks. It is a complete absence of reality and it can only be suggested by someone who does not go through Serbia, here, above all, I think of our prime minister who, on the day she was elected, said that digitisation is the most important and important priority in Serbia at a time when 60% of central Serbia, and 50% of Belgrade has no sewerage either. Is that good? Yes, it is, and digitization and electronic textbooks. Is that real in this situation? Well, of course not. As for building permits, you have also responded to my colleague from another parliamentary group, but I would like you to respond to me, too, what will happen to a hotel that illegally and without any permission builds Bratislav Gasic on Kopalnik, in a place that is not foreseen, which is protected by law? If you have any knowledge of this, to answer me, if you don't, I'll ask it as a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35513	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35514	You have asked, in my opinion, one key question, in everything you have raised, and that is -- how are Serbian citizens going to believe the government of the Republic of Serbia to realise this project? I'll be happy to answer that. Just as Serbian citizens believed in the Palanca SNS and voted and have seven times more votes than you do, too. That's one thing. Secondly, when you were talking about this law, somehow you assumed, which for me is amazing, maybe it's a problem from the past, I don't know, and that's that 18,000 employees in the military, the police, the bia, actually won't be able to buy those apartments, so now that means that they're criminals, because then they're going to buy them, and they showed up as very interested and signed that they're interested, so if they can't do it in that legal way, as you say, then, so they're doing it illegally. I guess that was your thinking. I'm saying, maybe it's from the past, it's possible, because in that same past, you've really had a lot going on, and I'm really glad that this Serbian government isn't going with those rates, or since 2012, it's not going with the steps that you've been going. Furthermore, for Serbian citizens, how will they get an apartment for those who are members of the security force? What will happen after the adoption of this law, I hope that we will adopt it, in addition to certain decisions that the government will make, as I said, on the transfer of investment rights, the Ministry of Finance's decision, declaring general interest, will also establish criteria for creditworthiness. The bottom line is that these loans will certainly be much more favourable than commercial loans. You're committed to making it better for the members to get more salaries, and then after that, they're going to opt for apartments, that in that situation these loans would be commercial and that they could have done it all over the last 30-40 years, I believe, and I'm sure they would have done it. The fact is that they are not, and this is the way and way to ensure and systematically resolve such a question. A team before, as I said, there'll be no rankings here. So, all the members who want to buy an apartment, who have already reported themselves interested by now, will have the opportunity to buy much larger apartments if there is interest on their part. Then, you mentioned the speed of 130 kilometers per hour, you tied it to a million other things and you said – what is the point now and what have we done with measuring the average speed. I'll tell you that over the period since the average speed measurement started on the highway, the number of traffic accidents has been reduced by 25%. I think it's a serious result when we talk about traffic safety, and the speed of 130 kilometers per hour is, first of all, there's a quality of the road and there's no reason why it shouldn't be. You also mentioned building permits. I thought at least you knew so much, it certainly wasn't the city architect who issued the building permits. They know exactly what institutions do. One more thing to tell you, and I hope the same thing, I guess you've heard it by now, we're the tenth in the world because our building permits are being issued electronically. So there is no interference of natural persons, as it used to be, so it happened for your time, as I said, seven, eight, ten, ten years, no more, because someone doesn't suit you because you don't like someone, because there are some other personal and private interests, which is why many couldn't get building permits and which is why Serbia was 186 on the "Ding Business List". There were only countries behind us that were in the civil war. So when you talk about it, at least stick to the facts and when it's good, it's good. And it's good for you to have the building permits e-mailed. I think I'd be done here for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35515	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35516	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 regarding Article 107. Mr. Chairman, you should have given me a replica right away. That's one thing. Number two, the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely violated. You've allowed Mr. Heineken to severely insult this assembly and the MPs. He spoke very badly of the Army here. The army, which instead of being neutral, they were almost neutralized. He was talking here about low wages, lunches, a man who drank a tank for one night, 470,000 dinars. His Minister Sutanovac was selling for five thousand dollars in T55. I'm not talking in my head. He drank a man's tank and very rudely insulted the assembly, the ruling majority, saying we were to blame for the troubles of soldiers. His minister, a violation of dignity, was not an MP during his term, if we talk about Vulin, but as a minister bought and built 520 square meters. It's in downtown Belgrade. It's one 60, 70 military apartments to be built. His minister had a different watch on his hand every day that cost, each cost as much as one soldier's apartment. He spent in the Smederjevska Palanca for four years of his term four billion more money, which is equal to 100,000 military salaries or 520 and some apartments for the military. That's why I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35517	You don't want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. Thank you. Right on the line, Aleksandar Markovic, then George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35518	Thank you. That's what it looks like when elections in what's left of the DS are in motion. You know, no less parties, no more clans, division and conflict. Earlier, a previous speaker, spokeswoman before Mr. Risticevic, tried to be funny and to say that we were not in the hall, that we were not here, while forgetting to look around and see that there were only two of them all day. I don't know where the rest of them are, probably boycotting them or belonging to some other clan or current within the DS. As for the guilt of being a member of the security force, I think the previous speaker was referring to himself and Mr. Sutanovac while he was the defence minister. Here's what they did. So, the municipality of Smederovska Palanka, in which the previous speaker was in power, bought from the Ministry of Defence, when the minister was Dragan Sutanovac, the House of the Army in Smederjevska Palanca, bought it for 33,165,000 dinars, then paid a little more than 2 million dinars to the old owners on behalf of the purchase of land, then gave another five million dinars to tear down the facility, and then geniusally sold it to Delese for almost twice the money for 26.5 million dinars and the difference was 13.695,000 dinars. So, where did that money go? Maybe that money financed that apartment on the Šutanovac Vrakar, which was mentioned by Mr. Risticevic. It's a good thing the previous speaker announced he'd be traveling soon. He's better off on the highway than in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35519	The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35520	Thank you, Chairman. He says our people can't give a smart answer to stupid questions. I am obliged here to give the truth because the gentleman in question last week accused Assistant Minister Nenad Miloradovic of owning a private company, etc. under the SDPR. That's not true. It's simply true that what he's asking for is only an organisational unit of SDPR. If he doesn't know what that means, then he's got to ask someone who's willing to explain it to him. What is important, I must say that Nenad Miloradovic and Aleksandar Vulin are not the same as Dragan Sutanovac and Ilija Pilipovic, who was his assistant minister. You know, Ilija Pilipovic, who was assistant and also best man Dragan Sutanovac, when he left the ministry, founded a private company, "Avangard Point". Why don't you ask who owns the Avangard Point, how it was created and whether the abuse by Ilija Pilipovic is now about selling and representing foreign companies with weapons, and that of “Kaštela”, “X Blue”, other companies, while working at the Institute “Michajlo Pupin”. You issued 39 permits at the time for private arms and military equipment companies. How many of your companies are in this? What's your percentage and stake in all this? What are you not talking about? You know, how many affairs were there at that time caused directly by Mr. Pilipovic? It is not for free that the military police have filed criminal charges against him for abuse of their official position, as it has allowed the conclusion of a harmful contract with the company "Mega Link" DOO from Belgrade to purchase telecommunications equipment. The damage that has been done to the budget and to the Ministry of Defense is 150 million dinars, and that's only on one criminal machination they've done. Why don't you ask that? You can always get a smart answer there.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35521	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35522	Dear citizens of Serbia, here in 2012 we address you, the SNS has not yet come to power, when they come to power, honey and milk will flow. However, today 2018, the month of May, 15, is almost seven years of SNS in power. First I stand for it - arrest everyone who has not worked according to the law, do not fill the people's ears with lies, nonsense and false allegations. I am glad that the citizens of Serbia can see that on the question of who owns the company "Me 500", which does so and within that and that, I get an answer that has nothing to do with it, that because I said that members of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence are extremely hard to live, that 82% of them who left the Army did so on a personal request, that their salaries were cut, that their pensions were reduced, that none of Serbia's citizens had enough money in their wallet, enough fuel in the tank and enough food in the drawer, the answer to that is – oh, you have no hair. Yeah, I don't have hair, but it won't make it better for the M.O.P. or the members of the Department of Defense. That's the point. So, to personal insults, personal slanders and lies I don't answer, because it's all false and all that the citizens of Serbia know who did what, which minister, no matter what party he was in, so arrest him, and for all these untruths and Dragan Sutanovac, and Bojan Pajtic, and Dragan Djilas have liberating judgments, and what judgments will be when you leave power, I don't know, and I only advise you one thing – build one building in Zabela, you will need in Zabela...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35523	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35524	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, has been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly. This address, which tells the MPs that they are arresting someone, is in the least offensive to the honor and dignity of this house. You know who's doing it in an orderly state. Criminal charges have been filed, criminal cases are being conducted, police, prosecutors, courts are doing their job. In this way, no one will be silenced by the right of an MP to speak the truth. This isn't 2003, you know, when "Sablja" was arrested for being a member of another party without a court decision, without any solution, with nothing. That's what their perception of themselves is, but regardless of their perception, their image has no right to reflect on the other people sitting in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35525	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojičić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35526	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 108 to the session on the order of the old chairman, and in this case you. It's true that the previous speaker said that in an orderly state, you know who's arresting. In our country, it's known to go on TV and say, "Here's the Cosmack, the biggest drug dealer..." [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35527	Please report again and say that I, as chairman, have hurt the Rules of Procedure, as my colleague Komlenski did.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35528	Here, just like the previous speaker said, I'll say the same thing. I said, if you didn't hear, that you hurt a member of 108 that it's okay at the session of the old chairman, and in this situation you do. I don't know why you interrupted me. Just like you said, I'm going to say as a previous speaker who spoke before me - that we're an orderly state and that in a regulated state you know who's arresting. That's what the previous speaker said. That's why I'm reporting and advertising article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35529	You're replicating, pal, that's the problem. (Radoslav Milojic: I explain. Don’t explain anything to me, just explain how I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Don't rephrase, because I will be forced to take your time from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35530	Take it away, it's not controversial. I said and I'm talking here, explaining where the previous speaker was wrong when he advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I advertised a member of 108, and I agree that we're a well-organised state, couldn't deserter be a defense minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35531	I'll take two minutes from the MP's time. The word has the People's MP Alexander Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35532	Thank you. That watch in which he looked at the previous speaker to determine what month we are in today is probably the watch that comes from the expensive Šutanovec collection, and that is not what I, Mr. Chairman, argues Amir Bislimi. If you're interested in who Amir Bislimi is, it's the former director of the DS. He says – Dragan Sutanovac has to explain urgently where he gets the money for expensive watches, company suits and shoes, as well as a luxury apartment on Vrakar. I'm joining the appeal of Amir Bislimi to determine where the money for the expensive watches came from to the president of the previous speaker. Probably the money comes from that robbery we talked about earlier. You've robbed the apartments of security forces through the Serbs of Sisak. Isn't that right, Mr. Ristichevich? That's what the court found, not us. So, the Serb Simonović Sisavac in Smederjevska Palanca via the Centre for the Development of Sports from Palanca by sucking money out of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality. That's how you directly destroyed the Housing Fund for Security Forces. I must say, Mr. Chairman, I cannot understand that fascination with aunts. The only explanation is that even the previous speaker's aunt did not vote for him in the Smederjevska Palanca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35533	The word has the People's MP Radoslav Milojic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35534	Thank you, Your Honor. I think the previous speaker will be held as Babic for the time being. And here I am calling him now, since he accused me of having an expensive watch, this is a "Festina" watch that costs 8,000 dinars, what others have doesn't interest me. If not, I will resign as MPs, if it's true that you are. So you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35535	Talk to me. Don't direct your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35536	Replica, Mr. Marinkovic. You pass on to the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35537	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35538	... who, apart from stealing and kidnapping a councilman at Vracar, the Democratic Party, who lost the election...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35539	I won't tolerate words like that. Thank you very much. (Radoslav Milojic: And those are the words you will tolerate? Boyan Bag, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35540	Dear Chairman, esteemed vice-presidents with associates, fellow MPs present today have a set of extremely important draft laws, which the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, will support in the day to vote. In my address, I will speak too highly of the draft law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water catalogue, while in the further discussion of my fellow MPs from the parliamentary group, they will discuss other drafts of the law. The draft law on the registration procedure in the immovableity and water catalogue is another evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure are fully committed to solving all current problems in this area. The key problems that this law will need to solve are relatively long awaited for the registration of property rights, which has negative effects on legal certainty, as well as on the attractiveness of the Republic of Serbia as an investment destination, high frequency and long duration of administrative and judicial proceedings related to property-legal relations, the limitation of administrative capacity of the immovable cadastre service to handle timely requirements for the performance of appropriate entries. The obligations of the Republic Geodetic Institute stemmed from the rules adopted in the past period, such as conversion of rights of use and property on construction land, registration of public property and registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, led to an increase in the number of cases in work from 20,000 in 2014 and 25,000 in 2015, to as much as 115,000 in 2016. In order to increase the urgency of the service of the Republic Geodetic Institute, as well as to reduce the number of subjects in work, it is necessary to speed up and simplify the procedure of enrollment in the immovableity cadasar, which will make it significant to adopt the proposed law on the registration procedure in the immovableity and water catalogue. At present, anyone who buys immobility must first verify the contract with a public notary i.e. to make up a public-book record. In order to do so, the customer must first obtain a copy of the catastra and take it to the public notebook. After having been certified by the public register, the buyer shall re-brand the contract for registration to the Republic Tax Administration to determine the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and then report a property tax to the local tax administration. So, during this procedure, each party visits a minimum of five counters and, as I said, tours the Immobility Catastrophe, then a public notebook, again a cadastre, the Republic Tax Administration and ultimately a local tax administration. What this bill seeks to achieve is that the public notebook, instead of a real estate buyer, takes into account the immovableity cataster, then verifys the purchase contract, and then digitises the contract, authenticates it by electronic signature, and sends the cataster by electronic means by official duty. Then, when it receives a contract from a public notary, after enrolment, it shall pass on to the IRS and the local tax administration. So, from the five walks around the counters, it comes down to a single counter of a public notebook, without increasing any costs to the citizens. What is more than certain is that this bill will make a significant contribution to the establishment of an up-to-date cataster, as the basic principle of enrolment in the cadastre is introduced by the principle of officiality, which means that after its adoption the enrolment will be carried out according to official duty. Public notebooks will have the obligation by July 1st of this year, every fixed-state agreement, which is the basis for enrolment in the cadastre, to deliver the immovableity cadasar services via an electronic counter. The other public authorities and public authorities will be obliged to submit their decisions based on enrolment by electronic cadastre services from 1 November 2018 and courts from 1 January 2020. The importance of this bill is not only that its adoption will simplify and speed up the procedure of enrollment in the immovableity cadasar, but it is primarily the fact that for the first time there is a fundamentally complete proposal for a procedural law that, if adopted in a unique way, will regulate the registration process in the immobility cataster. The need for a uniform regulation of the procedure conducted in front of the cathedral dates back to the time when land books were shut down and data was downloaded on immovableities and real rights over them from land registers. During this period, the procedure conducted by a land-based book judge in terms of the registration of real rights over real estates and the procedure conducted by the cadastre, which concerned other data on immovable property, was united and replaced by a single enrolment to be conducted in the immovable cadastar services. After the creation of such a unique building site, it continued with enrolments made under the Law on State Crossing and Catastrophe, as a special law relating to the work of the Immobility Catastrophe Service. This law, primarily material, has been complemented and changed over all these years by the moss in the work concerning the process of enrollment in the cataster of immovableity. The law mentioned above regulated, in addition to the material and procedural part, while for issues not regulated in the context of the registration procedure, the General Administrative Procedure Act is applicable. This was, of course, the only solution to such conditions, but it produced a series of unequal practices. The appeal to the Law on General Administrative Procedure of the RGZ could not undermine the specificities of the catastra only, and therefore the adoption of a procedural law in the field of enrollment in the immovableity cadasar, a move which is for absolute praise. Taking into account today's pace of life and work, both citizens and business entities, we understand how important it is to keep the real estate cadasar up to date, especially when entering new mortgages, erasing those whose importance has expired, as well as when working in all matters concerning the burden of immovableity in this regard. The problem of the unscheduling of the catastras in the case of enrolment and the erasure of mortgages on immovable property dates back over a decade and a half. There was, freely we can say, a failure, and certainly against the general interest and discriminatory solutions of the previous authorities whose alleged goal was to reduce the consequences of this problem. The fact that these solutions were unsuccessful and not so terrible compared to their later proven opposition. In 2013 the Constitutional Court adopted a decision establishing that the provision of Article 8a. The compensation regulation for the use of data of diameter and catastra and the provision of services to the RGZ is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and thus interrupted another in a series of acts of self-will of the former regime. Otherwise, by enabling the excessive settlement of cases only on the basis of the payment of an increased fee, as prescribed by the said member of the regulation, the parties who have been prioritised in this way were placed in a privileged position with respect to other parties, and the legalisation of the case-by-case settlement itself points to the legalisation of corruption, which was in general the main specialty of the former government. Serbia divided into Serbia's rich and Serbia's poor in which only those with money, those rich and, of course, politically similar have a chance to exercise some of their rights, was a universal system of values during their 12-year rule. In 2012 the new Government of the Republic of Serbia raised not only the issue of solving the current problems in this area, but also preventing further harm to citizens over the disastrous solutions to the previous regime. What is really noticeable and what must be praised, both to the ministry, and to the leadership of the RGZ, is the fact that more steps have been taken in the last three, four years that directly affected the faster and more responsible resolution of the requirements for recording and eradicating mortgages. Their efforts have led to the necessary harmonisation of practices in the territory of the entire country, the resolution of demands within an absolutely reasonable period without the possibility of rejection of demands, if for example. the applicant has not paid a fee for the provision of services, as well as a priority and within the shortest time limit to resolve the requirements that precede the requirements for the recording of the mortgage or the erasure of the mortgage. In this way, the maximum-responsible business policy has finally ceased to be a source of problems for citizens. Another significant problem in the previous period was the unequal conduct of the catastra service when entering the text of the mortgage in the immovable burden sheet and the flat-rate assessment of the cadastra officers, which are essential elements to be included in the immovable burden records. It is precisely the solutions that have become an integral part of this bill, which is in front of us, that solves all confusion, and the provision of Article 9 sets out and accurately states what is listed in the text of the publishing statement in the Immobilities List, which is burdened with the mortgage, in which way all kinds of ambiguities can be avoided, from which different interpretations can be made of both the Mortgage Act and the Law concerning the Katastre and the Law of Immobilization Rights can be made. This proposed text of the law, with all the measures implemented by the RGZ so far, will significantly increase the degree of protection of housing customers in construction. Namely, the proposed text of the law provides for the first time the registration of the object's premise and its specific parts, apartments, garages, business premises, as well as the change of their owners, and the customers are protected by the fact that without their consent, no one will be able to register as owner, while potential buyers will have information on whether the apartment has already been sold, which has not been the case so far, since they have rarely submitted requests for a notice, and the adoption of the proposed law will be subject to official registration. When we talk about positive changes in the RGZ, I must also mention the director, Mr. Borko Draskovic, who must be admitted that from 2015 to today, more than any other director before him, has introduced a significant number of systemic anti-corruption measures into the RGZ. One of the first measures was the rotation of service chiefs and chiefs of legal services, with the aim of changing the environments in which they work as much as possible and creating a positive energy in the work of the RGZ. Then more than two years ago, an 8D methodology was introduced in the RZG, which is a systematic approach to solving the problem in the eighth step, which particularly characterizes solving the problem by identifying the real main causes and taking measures that prevent the recurrence of once-solved problems. What is also very important for all citizens and what will make it much easier for them to communicate with catastra services is the introduction of a management document of the system, and as far as I am aware, in half of the total number of services of the real estate catastra. The management document will significantly contribute to preventing the possibility of corruption, and means that immediately upon receipt of the documentation, which the party submits with the request, the documentation is being scanned and then immediately accessed to the formation of an electronic object. Paper documentation will remain in the reception office, and all cadastra officers working on solving a specific subject will access and process the case electronically. In addition to preventing the loss of any document, which in the past has been known to happen, the system allows for the central level to be checked at any time by anyone who has accessed the case and can thus be easily seen if the case has been accessed by anyone who has not been authorised. With regard to the proposal for a law on special conditions for the implementation of projects to build apartments for members of security forces, I would like to give recognition to both the Ministry and the Republic Government, which is, for example, different. From 2008 to 2012, in a completely different way the solution, i.e. solves the security of the apartments for members of the security forces. In that period from 2008 to 2012, I'll tell you how. solved the problem of the then Minister of Defence's apartment, whose co-owner at the current apartment in Vračar, i.e. The owner of 4/10 of the same apartment of Vilab Pharm LTD, which received nearly 10 public procurements during the minister's term and made about 350,000 euros out of these public procurements. The company "Villab Pharm LTD" had a joint director, Radomir Bzika, with the company "Peyton Medical", which received funds from the Ministry of Defence. Then it is no wonder that a minister with only four and a half years in office can reach an apartment worth over one million euros. It is also necessary to draw out one of the mathematics that colleagues have drawn, for a 1m-euro apartment, so for these million euros we have an apartment of 190m square meters and a gallery of 139m square meters. Today, under these conditions that the ministry and the government are giving, a residential building for members of the security forces that will count 50 apartments can be built. In this respect, the difference in how housing care was addressed in the defence, police and other security forces from 2008 to 2012 and after 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35541	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Excuse me for a moment ago, please. You had an advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35542	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected Minister Mihajlovic, cabinet members, as a member of the SDA party, I would like to refer to the proposals of the law on railways, roads and road traffic, the transport of passengers we consider to be of paramount importance to all citizens living in Sandzak. It really doesn't take a lot of words to say about the importance of rail and rail traffic, especially if we speak from the point of view of citizens and businesses. We believe that rail transport is of the utmost importance, both that passenger and the freighter and the most because of its price and reliability. But what I want to point out is that the town of Novi Pazar is one of the major cities in Serbia, that it is not yet connected by rail to the rest of the country but also to the world. Some may not know the information, but in order for Novi Pazar to connect to the railway line, it is necessary to build a 20km rail that has been waiting for more than 50 years, while this project has been updated over the decades, and forgotten, and again updated for decades. According to the data I have, this stock exists in the spatial plan, so its construction and from that aspect is simpler, only the will is needed. The advantage in this is that no reconstruction is needed, but it can be started immediately with the construction of modern high-speed railways. In order for Novi Pazar to get the railroad, it is necessary to build 20km of railways. So that doesn't cost the country much, and the citizens and businesses in Sandzak, but the whole country, too, is worth a lot. Only the needs of a business for favourable transport goods in our country's territory and also goods intended for export, primarily to the major markets in Russia and Turkey with which we have a Free Trade Agreement, are good enough reason to respond to this request by realising. Our products such as clothing, shoes, furniture, and food are competitive both in domestic and foreign markets. However, the final price of our products suffers great damage and suffers great pressure due to the high transport price. With a favourable way to distribute our goods on domestic and foreign markets, we would significantly increase production and thus reduce unemployment, and would increase our country's exports. With the combination of rail transport and air transport from the airport of Brodjevci to the King, and in the future with the airport in Sjenica, our business would open the doors of fast, efficient and favourable communication with the world market. That way we get a concrete answer to the difficult situation in which our citizens and our economy are. That is why I am taking this opportunity and asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to start building the railway to Novi Pazar as soon as possible and to establish dynamics. When it comes to road traffic, we have heard countless times, as here in the Assembly, and I believe in both the government and the media, that the situation of the Sandzak roads is catastrophic, at the level of devastation. Some roads, like the one from Novi Pazar towards Tutin and the Shadow, can't even be called roads. There is no expression or category that can illustrate the catastrophic state in which they are located. That's why we have the utmost importance of building these routes. It's something SDA Sandzak's been working on for years. I have talked about this with my colleagues in the previous meetings of this House, and I believe that the time has finally come to realize with these projects. For this reason, with great attention and joy, we are following all the announcements during the last meetings of the president of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr Erdogan, on the construction of the Corridor 11 highway and two highways from Belgrade to Sarajevo, as well as the construction of regional roads from Novi Pazar towards Tutin and Sjenica. These routes would greatly improve the travel communication of Sandzak citizens with the rest of the country and the world. With this in mind, we will support this bill to confirm the agreement between Serbia and Turkey in the area of urbanism. We in Sandzak have good businessmen who know how to make money, but they need to ensure equal conditions as everyone in the country does. For a moment, I would also like to refer to the Law on the Transport of Goods and Passengers in Road Traffic. It is good, however, to introduce order in road traffic and passenger transport, but we have been having major problems facing our carriers for years back. When it comes to the application of this law, they often pass the law of unfair competition which is seen through fingers, through disrespect for established driving order, terms, stations, etc. As a MP, I had a meeting with many of the owners of these agencies, with one of the damaged owners we even visited your ministry, we had a good conversation with Mr. Kern. The man has brought evidence of all abuses, however, the problem has not been solved. Like I said, I've held meetings with other damaged owners of these agencies who have almost identical problems. At this point, I wouldn't mention names, but we're all willing to work together to solve this problem. According to them, the competent authorities have certain favorites that allow them to use other people's terms beyond the rules, do not respect the established driving order, making such a unfair competition precisely for those who respect the law. I want to commend your openness, and I want to invite you to make a meeting with these people together to protect those who respect the law, because this is how you send a message that respect for the law is not worth it. Finally, it may not have anything to do with these laws, but as far as road traffic passengers are concerned, I want to support an initiative launched by the citizens of Novi Pazar, headed by Professor Ganic, from the state University of Novi Pazar, to introduce tram transport to Novi Pazar. This proposal would largely address the problem of almost daily traffic collapse in this city, and I call on the government and your ministry to find a solution with them and help the city of Novi Pazar get tram transport, to show citizens that good and healthy civil initiatives are paying off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35543	Thank you, colleague Imamovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35544	Thank you for your comments, especially about the railroad itself, you're right. What we especially do is rehabilitate and reconstruct the roads. You know that now and in the delegation when President Vukic was in Turkey, among other things, we talked about rehabilitation, but not just rehabilitation, but also about a fast traffic station in this area. We already have a delegation from the Turkish Ministry of Traffic with which we do so. You also know that Corridor 11 is going through that area, but what remains in front of us is to see how to deal with rail transport, just in view of the airport of Shipmen that needs to help us because it is developing primarily in this freight traffic. As for the fast traffic and rehabilitation, we expect the project-technical documentation to be completed especially for the fast traffic facility. Our plan is to try to get the work done during the summer. We'll see, it's not just up to us, it's up to the designer, but now it's absolutely certain that we'll be doing it for the next year or two, almost certainly two if we're talking about a fast traffic jam. I think in that sense, the conditions for transport will certainly be much, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35545	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35546	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representatives, honourable fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens who follow the work of our today's session, God helps all. I would take the opportunity at the beginning to congratulate all of us and all Serbian citizens on a large and significant jubilee that we are marking today, which is 170 years since the creation of the Serbian Vojvodina. On this very day, 170 years from the May Assembly and the great event that formed the Serbian Vojvodina, which was 70 years later, and exactly 100 years ago, ended with an epochal historical part of the association of Srema, Banata, Baka and Baranja with the Kingdom of Serbia. I think it is important that this is mentioned today in the Serbian Parliament, so at the republican level. Thank you, Chairman, for your understanding. I was at a ceremony in Sremski Karlovci today, but I believe it is not only a celebration for the province's level of government, but that the entire Republic of Serbia should celebrate Serbia's and its accession to the Kingdom of Serbia. As for the current laws that are on the agenda, I must indeed realize that the government is progressing and that somehow it is finally coming into contact with its name of the Serbian Progressive Party, because it respects and understands how constructive we of the opposition are and how well our ideas and our solutions are correct and good. Here, I'll give you some examples. First of all, the government of the Republic of Serbia and its president understood the importance of the family policy of the Serbian Movement Dvora and put it today as state priority number one, true, only after six years of government, but better ever than never. It is similar with the subject of final resolution, at least part of the unresolved housing issues of security forces, and recently we are here, 15 days ago or as much as it was, criticising Minister Vulin as it is only one in a series of false promises of the current government that these cheap apartments for members of the security forces will occur, and it is years late. Here's finally that law on the agenda, and that's also a good thing. It's a good thing we're going to talk about in the 2nd agenda, which I also don't know why it waited six years to come to the agenda of this National Assembly, or 20 years after NATO bombing, but all this says is that it's about the average SNS promise to start something at all from what it has promised for at least six years. Just so we know, when the SNS promises you something in the future, count on there's nothing below six years to even move to realize. What is most interesting to me and I must admit, it is a new phenomenon that has really worked successfully, when the opposition proposes quality and good amendments, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejects quality and good amendments, just for one single reason – because they come from the ranks of the opposition. And what's new? It is a new phenomenon that after a few weeks, the government proposes the same proposal to the opposition as its proposal, through amendments and additions to certain laws. Let me give you a specific example. The amendment to the proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Safety Act proposed by Parliament's Dveri Group on 6 March 2018 to raise speed on our highways from 120km to 130km per hour. Two months ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia rejected this amendment, for unknown reasons, and here two months later, the government of the Republic of Serbia itself proposes the same amendment that Dvori proposed two months ago as a major step in the new amendments to the same law. Wait, what changed in two months on Serbia's roads? Are they so improved that they can now drive 130 an hour, and they couldn't drive two months ago, when we equally explained that it was a practice that exists in many countries of the region and Europe? So I appeal to the government that it's not hard to be nice and admit that when the opposition proposes good things, it's good things. How is it not difficult for us that when the government proposes something good, we say – this is good? It shouldn't be too difficult for you when the opposition proposes something good, to say it's good and to adopt. Here, I'll start with the Law on Railways, which I believe is the crown of a reform of the Serbian railway system, which I'm not sure is well designed. Here's the problem with the whole concept. Therefore, the division of once a single railway company automatically weakens our national railway carrier and atomises investment and strengthening opportunities. In this great process, we have divided the railway national carrier into four different companies. The individual companies that came out of this unique company are thus both weaker and less competitive. The only economically profitable part remains freight traffic, and the rest seem to be left to fail or sell to some large railway players from abroad. The advantage will, of course, be the largest and strongest EU rail companies to enable another additional monopoly in this way, when the topic comes on the agenda. It is our opinion, the opinion of the Serbian Dvora Movement, that the state must not leave state rail infrastructure in any way, nor should it remove parts of railway lines because of the so-called so-called railway infrastructure. I hope it stops with this law. What are the consequences that can be dangerous, and if I'm not mistaken, you've done all this, Madam Minister, on the basis of a certain elaborate on 130 pages that a certain consulting firm has done, and for which you seem to have paid a huge amount of money, and you might say how much you've given in your time to rewrite Western ideas how to divide our national railway carrier, and otherwise all these ideas in the West are rejected as completely pointless and wrong, and they're still importing them to us here as some colony and some natives who need to take their wrong ideas that are no longer applied to themselves. So, the problem is destroying a successful system and preparing the ground for unfair competition from abroad, and the problem is the possibility of selling parts of a large system that are profitable and leaving other parts to the state to finance or to be shut down. What I also want to point out is probably here and for our debate today of the most important law – a bill on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces, which for so many years, among other things, is late, I want to point out that there are good and important things and that there are seriously problematic things about this bill. What's good? It is good to finally begin to resolve a number of housing issues for Serb security forces. They deserve it a long time ago. Why is a government that's been in power for six years now only after six years trying to solve this issue, that's a good question for the government? The other good thing is national security and you have well noted in the reasoning of this law, that this, of course, raises our national security and helps members of the security force, which is always good and that you will always have support in the Serbian Dvora Movement. It is also good that we would call state capitalism, or as counterpart Dragan Gilas recently said, referring to the Dveri economic programme – economic patriotism, by the state entering the market, the state is investing, the state is driving the momentum of domestic economy, the state is resolving the housing issues of its security forces. So, I declare the dead neoliberal concept of the economy that has thrown the state out of the market and congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which acknowledges that the Davers have been right all these years and that you are returning the state as an investor, that you are returning the state as someone who plays a role in the economy and that you are returning the state as someone who solves certain important national matters. Once again, Dvori is right years ago and finally the government of the Republic of Serbia is returning to state capitalism and directly becomes an investor in the construction of a large number of housing units for security forces. Of course, the result of all this – the launch of the domestic economy. It's an extremely good thing, first of all building operations and what you've pointed out here in an explanation, and if so, believe me, I'll be the first to celebrate and honor, Madam Minister, and that's the obligation of the participation of domestic operators. If it took you 18 years of neoliberalism, destroying everything that is domestic economic interest, favouring foreigners, foreign firms and their monopolies, to realize that the point of one government is to support domestic economy and favouring domestic economy, then it's really too much. But, again, better late than never. So, not the obligation of domestic economic operators to participate, as you say here, but solely the right, the monopoly, the domestic economic producer, or the economic operator, to realise from the state capital invested in production. It is a programme of the Serbian Dvora Movement, and thank God and the Government of the Republic of Serbia gradually comes to the positions of the Serbian Dvora Movement, not only on family policy, but, as we can see, on economic policy. It took you a while, you didn't listen very carefully to us in time, we explain it a long time. You thought everything coming from the west was nice and great. Finally, you began to realize that more important domestic economic interest is more important than the neoliberal economy, foreign investors, foreign banks and their monopolies and their robbery, bringing extra profits from the Serbian state. What is not good, and let the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for something is not good and do not mind us as an opposition doing our job and criticising the government, it is not good to repeat "Belgrade on Water", which you are otherwise calling for in this explanation, and this is a scandal in itself, when you say here that the notes work, be careful, notes, "in the realization of other significant projects for the Republic of Serbia have already been approached by such and similar solutions", and an example of the project "Belgrade on Water". Don't ever point that out again as an example, because this lex specialis is a disgrace to this parliament, this state and your authority, and the way you gave a monopoly to one private investor in the most strategically important place to build in the city of Belgrade is a symbol of corruption, crime, thieving and all the worst in this society and state. God forbid building apartments for security forces looks like "Belgrade on Water". God forbid "Belgrade on Water" is repeated in Kralje, Kragujevac, Vranja, Novi Sad or Belgrade. Of course, we would not like to see the construction of these apartments end up as a new example of corruption, crime, thieving, and the Burazer economy in the ranks of the Serbian Progressive Party. It's nice that you're criticising the Democratic Party, I don't know if you've just sent all those who robbed Serbia during the Democratic Party's rule? But you can't hide the fact that there are many Democratic Party personnel in your ranks and that in your ranks many are engaged in crime and corruption, to the very top of the current government. What is the danger of this law? That you suspend some other laws in the Republic of Serbia, that you're making a monopoly on how you're going to share jobs within the building of these apartments, that these jobs only get your companies, or close SNS companies. As it does, in the King the other day, money in a media award contest was won only by your television and all other TVs by zero. That's not the way it is with the domestic companies that are going to do these apartments, that only close SNS companies are going to get jobs and everyone else is rejected, that they get the opportunity to work in Serbia at all if they're not part of the SNS party parasite system? I ask you, Madam Minister, to pay attention that in the state of Serbia live and work people who are not members of the SNS. I don't know if you understand what I'm talking about. So in Serbia, people, families, citizens of Serbia who are not members of the Serbian Progressive Party live and work, are not part of the Progressive Cartel. Many are in opposition. A lot of people don't do politics. But they should have the right to work and to live a decent man and be able to work, not only in Serbia can they work and hire members of the Serbian Progressive Party and close to the Serbian Progressive Party. I implore you and I implore you not to apply this Burazer economy which you inherited from the DS to this building of apartments for members of the security forces. What was very nice to me here, I must admit that this is another original contribution to our parliamentaryism by the SNS, that's your explanation why we couldn't have a public debate on this law. That's a great thing, by the way. So says - the government of the Republic of Serbia public debate regarding the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project, for the members of the security forces have not been implemented, since the draft law contains data relating to data that are of interest to the Republic of Serbia, whose discovery would result in potential damage to the national security of the Republic of Serbia, public security, or to the security and intelligence affairs of the public authority. What's national security in building apartments? So, I suggest an original solution, whenever a topic is ticklish that the opposition could not speak, that no public debate is opened, you declare that it is important for national security. So every criminal affair at the top of your power. You also declare that this must not be investigated because it is important for national security and prohibit public debate. And of course, one also sweet thing, you say here, I will quote your statement, you say -- it will be apartments, all locations in several cities, and as far as Belgrade is concerned, other locations are already ready, says, while Belgrade is waiting for a new city authority to be established, so that we can start talks on it, says Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. For four years they have been in power in Belgrade, four months cannot establish a new power in Belgrade. That is why they do not know where to build apartments in Belgrade, which is why late apartments for security forces in Belgrade. What's it called? Javashake, incompetence and insecureness. If you won the election convincingly, then three days should have taken you enough to form a new city government in Belgrade. I don't know if you all who are members of the SNS realize that you are humiliated by the president of your party, Alexander Vukic. He now holds all the candidates from the list in the Belgrade elections on lera who will be mayor of Belgrade and for four months they must all go to him for a gift and beg him to be mayor of Belgrade, and then he will grant them the mercy of the emperor, so here you will be Gorana Vesic or you, Irena Vujovic, because there will certainly be none of those famous public figures who only played on the SNS list. Don't let that humiliation by Alexander Wolf. Are you effective? Are you a good authority? Are you capable? Three days after a landslide victory in Belgrade's elections, a new Belgrade government had to be formed, because four months later, plus four years of false promises that some Serb security forces would be right today, let's say, that this day he was given the keys to the apartment to which they were to move in. For who? Because of Alexander Vukic, who can't be defined as mayor of Belgrade, so who's going to suck up to him for four months, so who's going to give him more money to be mayor, so who's going to be a bigger servant to him in charge of Belgrade? Please, it's a humiliation for all of you at SNS. It's a humiliation to Belgrade. It's a humiliation for security forces. And, finally, Madam Minister, you know that I highly appreciate you, I always like these ours, to say, parliamentary clashes, you're a respected member of the same news bridge, well-known international organisations, works of the trilateral commission, you best conduct Western interests in Serbia. That's what I appreciate about you. You do not hide at all that you are a lobbyist of Western interests in Serbia, unlike others who are trying to hide, as I do not know, Dragan Shormaz, a lobbyist for NATO or anyone else. No, you openly say I lobby for the interests of the West, I'm a member of foreign international organizations. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35547	My colleague, Obradich, do I have to say what's wrong? Here, so far you've been completely normal, we can't blame ourselves for that kind of thing. For treason, for anyone who's out of this country's interest, don't do it. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35548	Thank you, Chairman. No one mentioned treason, but if you understood that Western interest lobbyists in Serbia are betraying the national interests of the Serbian state, I agree with you. What is the final question for Mrs. Minister, what will these apartments look like to be paid up to 500 euros per square cent by those who will buy them? Look, it's not the same price and quality of building apartments. Please don't be the apartments their owners will have problems with after a year because they're unqualityly built. Second thing, what's it gonna look like? Which banks will these loans be taken from? You say, "It will be much more favourable than it has ever been." Why can't all of us Serbian citizens take these more favourable loans? Where are these more favourable loans going to be? At home banks, foreign banks? Who does the state support? Home banks? Foreign banks? Will, for example, be able to solve some questions here and war veterans and families of the dead and wartime military disabled, are they covered by these demands? Please don't, it's for the end of the appeal, don't ask me to be like with housing loans in Swiss francs, to advertise them, and then to pick it up on the head of Serbian citizens, 20,000 families who are currently in debt slavery because this state has allowed foreign banks to rob citizens of Serbia with loans indexed in Swiss francs and robbery on currency clauses. I ask you to create a system that will allow those future owners not to be bank slaves for the rest of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35549	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35550	You're so right that we're all parasites, that it's all public hearings, criminals, traitors, I don't know what anymore, but again to remind you that it's not forgotten, 11 times more SNS votes with Vukic at the head of Belgrade than your coalition and that cruel neoliberal Radulovic you made with. Just so, here we are, terrible, terrible, but we have brought such terrible and terrible to Serbia today is the tenth in the world, that Serbia has GDP growth today, that the Serbian government can talk today about implementing a project to build five thousand apartments, to talk about providing systemicly, to solve the matter of 18,000 people and the military, the police, the BIAs that don't have those apartments. It's this horrible government, and it's this SNS, whose president is Vucic, who's done it all over the past few years. So let's go now a little bit about these details that you've been trying to explain and tell us, and that's the first thing we're going to do from conditions and what your apartments are going to be like, because you suspect that these apartments are unquality, that these apartments are actually compared to the price of poorer quality than some other apartments. There is an entire project task done by the Serbian Building Directorate, which I hold here in my hand. These apartments comply with all energy efficiency standards. Those windows are five-layered, every apartment has a terrace. If you were here, you could see the pictures, we could also give it to you afterwards, so I wouldn't read this all the way the floors, the doors, etc. So anything that is also installed in those apartments, at least 80% must be domestic Serbian origin, which is equally important, as well as the fact that we're going to build these apartments. You asked about the terms and the creditworthiness. These loans that will be taken by people who are employed in security services, in fact, security forces, are loans under more favourable conditions, more favourable than commercial loans. It's a 25-year maturity loan. We've done a few simulations depending on the value of an apartment. These are fixed interest rates, the participation of the state also exists which is from the budget and all of this the state can guarantee and work, because our budget is as stable as it is. You asked further questions about national security, i.e. why there was no public debate and that the data used we cited in the explanation that they could affect national security. There are certain parts and sources from where the data was taken and therefore it was strictly confidential. Today the law is in front of you, so it's all clear, everything can be seen. All the institutions within the government and agencies and the Directorates and the D.A., all those involved in this project, all agreed before we even put such a thing in the cabinet's session. First, it wasn't a rail reform made by someone sitting down, coming up with, drawing, etc. or paying for some studies, as you say, but because the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers that 30, 40, 50 years, which is absolutely true, did not invest in the railway sector. Then we sat down to go not only into reforming, but also to invest in railways and solve the issue of railway companies that had large subsidies. On today, I have to say that since the moment it was created, no single dinar subsidy, it increases its amount of cargo carried. In 2014, it was 10.8 million tonnes, 2017 12.3. On the other hand, in the railway infrastructure, which is somehow the basis of the development of rail traffic, the value of these investments alone in the railway infrastructure is around four billion euros. We can talk today about building a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest. These works exist, these works are done. We can talk today about a new 260m-euro project, which is partly financed from the European Investment Bank, but also from the EU donation, which is the modernisation and electrification of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway. We can talk today about currently being rehabilitated in Serbia's territory, so over 170km of railways are being reconstructed, so much has been done last year. Every time I showed up at a construction site, every time I started my speech, it wasn't a rehabilitated railroad for 40 years. That's what our railroads looked like, so it won't look like our railroads anymore. So when you're talking about how someone comes along and destroys the railroad, don't say it, because not only is it not true, that I wouldn't be rude and not say it's a lie. Furthermore, you mentioned 130 kilometers an hour. Last July, the Ministry of Traffic, and I personally talked about that we should be on our roads, highways to increase speed to 130 kilometers per hour. So, I'd say that you prescribed from me when you wrote this proposal for the amendment and I'm glad you're going to support it today. In general, when you were talking about apartments, I realized that you actually support this law, in addition to, of course, that feeling of discomfort and hatred that you feel for us, I still believe that you realize how important the realization of this project is for all citizens in Serbia, and that we should all support each other regardless of what political party they belonged to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35551	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Right on the line, Aleksandar Markovic, and then you're a colleague of Obradovic's. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35552	Thank you, Chairman. The section was believed or not by what we were able to hear from the previous speaker in 20 minutes what he managed to mix the grandmothers and frogs, the replacement of the thesis, etc., but I am glad that the previous speaker remembered the period when he was working so well with Dragan Gilas, whom he mentioned, while Gilas was mayor, while being financed by Dragan Gilas, but he did not remember that in one period that same Gilas praised the project "Beograd na Voda", he just didn't have, or he didn't know how to build it, and after some of the others came who knew, knew and wanted to build "Belgrade on Water", then he stopped liking the project. When it comes to improving domestic economy, domestic economies, domestic production, these are the phrases that he has learned by heart and whatever the subject is, he will spin the same phrase - domestic economy, domestic production, domestic economic development, but there is one problem, and you should have read the law. It's not hard, it's really not hard. Article 14 of the proposed law - housing building for collective housing are primarily used construction products, materials, equipment, installation of domestic producers, including at least 80% of the required construction products. So it's not hard to read this. So much for his concern for domestic production. A mild - tempered advice for the very end. I was, you know, painful to the opposition, and I was once a member of the opposition. Just don't worry about the Belgrade people, don't mention the Belgrade elections. The Belgrade citizens best said what they thought about you and your policy in the very Belgrade elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35553	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on line, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35554	Well, I am really looking forward to the growing number of points of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora programme published when we entered politics in 2011 being realized by various representatives of the government. I don't know how many times I've been, and it's right Mr. Markovic, only for this assembly speaker I begged that domestic firms get jobs and have advantage and monopoly over foreign companies. Then you tell me that you put into the law what the Dvori advocated for seven years, the truth, only after six years of your authority, that 80% of the materials in the construction of these apartments are domestic. Well, what were you waiting for, gentlemen owners? Well, the first day you came to power, you had to bring it. Priority, I will repeat that until my throat betrays me, in this country they must have domestic businessmen, domestic farmers, domestic entrepreneurs at all. As you are still, headed by your president, bowing to a foreign investor, from the president of the state to the president of the municipality, and giving him free city building land, like in Cacack, four million euros, giving him a grant in tens of thousands of euros, giving him various tax exemptions, giving him the opportunity to never get in, that I don't know how many hundreds of women go to one bathroom or I don't know what kind of harassment suffers. What's up with a domestic businessman and a domestic farmer in Serbia? Only VAT, taxes, excise duties, inspections, harassment and everything else he's exposed to, and racketeering by the SNS so he can live and work in Serbia at all. I ask you, the key question is: will we all stand here together behind the domestic economy, rather than behind foreign investors? If this is the beginning of it, you have our support, but don't be like "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35555	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Markovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35556	Well, the main performer of "Biograda on Water" is the home company "Energoproject". So much for talking to the previous speaker. As it suppresses the memory of co-operation with Dragan Gilas, it obviously suppresses the beginnings of its political action. It is "New Iskra" in 1999, which my distinguished colleague Vladimir Orlic spoke of several times. He also forgets that during his political activities he worked with all those who were in power and who were able to provide him with some benefits. We also remember while the Kolubara administration was in line with the DSS that this Colubara had funded it years ago. So we have 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, just in one year, the Dveri got 4.2 million dinars from the Colubara, and that's when Kolubara was a huge loser, when she recorded losses of 10 billion dinars. It was continued, as I said, for years in the future. In 2008, interestingly, Dvori received 300,000 dinars from the Ministry of Diaspora, and then, the same year, another 700,000 dinars, then in 2009 twice 300,000 dinars. So it's obvious that they don't have any ideologies in their program, not some solid course, but what suits them right now, which suits them, or who can be their finance guy, they get close to him. They offered to us in Chačka in 2016, that same Chačka that mentioned them. Of course, we refused and did not want to cooperate with them for all known reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35557	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35558	Thank you. You see, I, because of these various calls concerning any relations to the Serbian Movement of the Dvera, which, as far as I know, was not the only one in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, beware, the only MP group present here who has never been in power and therefore has no affair with him and no dirty laundry from any past regimes is, among other things, and I don't know whether it's good or bad, let the citizens of Serbia, in any way, be responsible for the arrival of SNS in power. Here, I'll explain how. At the moment in Djurdevdan in 2012, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vucic did not know what to do when they practically lost the election, i.e. they won much less than they expected in the first round of presidential elections, the only ones who were on the streets of Belgrade and led the fight against election theft by DS, Boris Tadic and your perhaps future mayor Goran Vesic, the main creator of the election theft, which then Dveri left under censorship, you do not know what to do. Tomislav Nikolic for seven days is hesitant whether to go to the second round of presidential elections, while Dvori is walking the streets of Belgrade, protesting in front of the RIK, wearing Boris Tadic's doll in a prison suit to fight for fair elections and against theft by DS. How dare you ever honor us more DS, Gilas or anyone else? We are indirectly responsible that you began to copy our protest driving across Serbia, to bring out those sacks, and to talk about the election theft when you broke down from an electoral defeat, or an insufficient number of votes you didn't get. So, if there really is a disaster with this authority one day, we're carrying part of the guilt because you took our idea out of the fight against election theft of DS from Gjurđevdan in 2012. Vladimir Orlic throws. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35559	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35560	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. The previous speaker says they've never been anywhere in power, and it won't be true either. Here's the Nova Varosh Municipality. In the municipality of Nova Varoš, along with the DS, and Tadic's party, as it is now called, whether the SDS can't catch itself, I think even there is LDP in power and Dveri along with them, as an equal partner, taking part in the conduct of local authorities. So I didn't make this up. This is what it says on the Dverry site. Now, if the previous speaker doesn't read his website or what it is, here I invite him to read the site and he'll be able to see for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35561	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35562	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's finally resolve that Ljotic dilemma, which is so interested in SNS representatives, because as I can see, there is no more popularizer Dimitri Ljotic than SNS. I learned from the best of Vojislav Seselj and Alexander Vukic, who I met at the “New Iscre” stand at the book fair... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35563	He didn't mention... Who said anything about Ljotic? Markovic didn't mention Ljotic, please. Don't spread the story now. Go ahead, go ahead. I gave you a replica, but it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35564	Thank you, Chairman. There, I just want to explain, and you're not giving me a chance. So, we want a new Varosh, there's no problem. So the Dvori aren't in power in Nova Varosha, that's another SNS lie. In the government of Novi Varosha, the flyers who crossed the lines of the SNS, sold, issued mandates, given to them by the citizens of Nova Varoshi to be against the SNS, came to power, which we supported, that is to say, the power that replaced the SNS, that is the first municipality in Serbia where SNS authorities were replaced, that was Nova Varoš. I'm proud that the Davers were involved in this... (Vladimir Orlic: Who? )......................................................................................................... So it will be in other cities and municipalities of Serbia, but then when we changed the power of the SNS, then those who were part of that new ruling majority sold their mandates to the SNS and formed a new power and betrayed the interests of the citizens of Nova Varoshi. (Vladimir Orlic): Don't be shy. ) To this day in the Prosecutor's Office there are criminal charges against the perpetrators of the SNS government, the former and president of the municipality and the head of the Zlatibor district, who, of course, damaged the budget of the Municipality of Nova Varoš in millions of amounts, but was protected by senior SNS officials, born in the area and all these affairs end up in drawers of courts, prosecutors and police. So that's what I'm telling you, crime and corruption, are no longer Democrats in power. You're in power. Crime and corruption continue to flourish, continue to spread, and you support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35565	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Krsto Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35566	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107. - dignity. The honorable gentleman who could only come to power with suspicious censorships, so I fall off the balcony, always protesting, always missing something, always someone flying somewhere, just always something to that censorship. In Nova Varosha, they were in one coalition until people saw who they were dealing with, and when you start with them, you quickly see who you're dealing with. A group of citizens who, at one point, changed the power of the SNS saw very quickly that people from SNS are people who want good for Nova Varosh. We've made one stable coalition for the benefit of all citizens. You know very well who has what functions in Nova Varosha. So, the SNS, although it has the largest number of councilors, has no function that you asked for, traded, which you cared about, and your ideas while you were in Novi Varosha, the way you supported and asked for some congregation decisions to be made, so that was embarrassing. In another month, if you had stayed, you would have turned this municipality black as your coalition partners who succeeded during their term of office to be in charge of the municipalities for four billion. And you're commenting. You wouldn't know to save a meadow in Nova Varosha if you had stayed in power and lectured on how to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35567	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35568	Thank you, Chairman. I point to the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, that it is forbidden to throw to the MPs as they present their discussion. You have also now allowed the replica under the cover of the Rules of Procedure, so you have violated the Rules of Procedure on several occasions. I don't know why this throw, why it can't stand the truth. We are witnessing that we have a problem from session to session, because the ruling majority cannot have a quorum. Then you're not so loud, then there's a general pain in the ass. So much for the stability of the coalition. As for the electoral theft, I will repeat what President Bosko Obradovic said, in 2012, you came to power precisely by protesting electoral theft, and by perfecting everything the DS has done in this country, it is indeed our biggest problem, the problem of Serbia's citizens. You boast of such percentages, and where your promises are fulfilled and do not be fooled that the percentage will grow, even with threats, thefts, sandwiches, electoral tourism in Serbia. So start by fulfilling your promises and don't accuse those who criticize your actions of being hateful. If someone disagrees with you, it doesn't mean they hate you. If you look at the transcripts from our presentations, you will see that only SNS, their MPs and government representatives are full of the mouths of hatred. We're just pointing to what's not right for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35569	Thank you. I didn't hear any pitching. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Thank you, colleague Janjušević. The word has the People's MP Alexander Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35570	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad we cleared up the situation around Nova Varosha and they admitted to working with DS, Tadic's party and the LDP and who knows who doesn't. As we said, it turns out it's true that Dwri, the false Patriotic organization of Dwri, is not choosing, absolutely not choosing an associate with whom he will cooperate. All they care about is getting money from him. The money's not disgusting. Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. It was Gilas in Belgrade, while he was mayor, it was DSS in Kolubara, it was quite a movement ahead of the Belgrade elections, and even the lady who spoke earlier, a colleague of Boška Obradovica, had a contract with Goran Jesic. NJen's firm "Ninmedia" has been funded by Goran Jesic and DS for years, and here they pretend to be some patriots, nationalists, etc. Obviously, from Ljotic to Sasa Radulovic, it is a short journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35571	Thank you. They were looking for a replica. Bosko Obradovic asked for a replica, but I would like to close the circle of replicas. You've got three lines. I think that was correct. Now it would all go down in that debate, we're going back 20-30 years. Let's get back to the law on the agenda. Is anyone else answering from the authorized representatives? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35572	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly pleased, after such a comprehensive debate that all of us here have realized that the main objection to all these proposed laws is the urgency of the procedure. What's the rush to say, why the emergency procedure? It's the only grudge we could hear today about all 21 draft laws or agreements. If it wasn't an emergency procedure, they'd say why it wasn't an emergency procedure. That's what their policy is about. As I said, in front of us a set of important draft laws in the area of construction, transport, infrastructure, etc., as well as a number of agreements, but certainly the most significant public attention caused the draft law on special conditions for the realisation of housing projects for security forces, or, as they already popularly call it, Lex specialise in building cheap apartments. I would start chronologically, so from the conclusion of the Serbian government since November 2017, when the Commission was formed to prepare a proposal for a project to build apartments for security forces. Already in December 2017, the Commission held its first meeting. The Commission's Government's conclusion is that for the sake of faster and more efficient realisation, it is necessary to develop a special law governing the conditions, criteria, way and procedure for the implementation of a project for the construction of dwellings for members and that of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the police, BIA and the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, and in particular to establish public interest, to regulate the procedure for expropriation, to prescribe the obligations of participants in the process of adopting or amending planning documents, to determine how to regulate the obligation to regulate construction land, to arrange the process of obtaining building land, to resolve property-legal relations on land within a residential complex and outside of a housing complex in the function of a housing complex. Then, editing the process of obtaining all works for the construction of buildings within the residential complex, the type of procedures applied for the selection of designers, the performers of technical control of contractors, the performance of design and professional supervision and the technical examination of the facilities. Then, the way to finance and build housing facilities and municipal and other infrastructures, conditions and criteria for building and buying apartments for the needs of security forces, the highest selling price of apartment per metre square, as well as all other issues of importance for the implementation of the project for building apartments for security forces. If we have in mind the importance, especially the responsibility of the job that security forces carry out if we have in mind that the largest number of unresolved housing needs is among that category, or among the members of the security forces, if we add more importance to the security of the entire country, then it is very important, i.e. it is quite clear how important it is to adopt this bill. In doing so, as we said in the debate, this problem is not since yesterday, this problem doesn't date from yesterday, this problem dates back decades, and no one has solved it, at least not to the extent that it was necessary. So much for these experts across the street who've been laminate in the state of security forces, and they haven't done anything while they've exercised power. What's important to point out? For the realization of this project, as we have heard, it was decided that in the first phase of the selected locations in six cities 1,578 apartments were built in Belgrade and Novi Sad by 400, Nis 188, Vranja 190, Kralje and Kragujevac by 200 apartments. That would be phase one. It has been found that in these six cities it is possible to build 5,203 apartments in total. The estimated funding for the construction of these apartments is 64,335,000 euros without VAT, and this includes the cost of municipal equipment for the proposed locations, i.e. the construction of the missing infrastructure. Although it is already said, it is not bad to repeat, the cost of building an apartment is 500 euros per metre square in respect of the dinar value on the date of conclusion of the contract, without VAT. The purchase price of the apartment at each individual location is determined by the investor, i.e. the seller of the apartment, which cannot be higher, or cannot be more than 500 euros. Who can exercise this right, the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions? Therefore, persons employed indefinitely in those state bodies, as well as persons former members of security forces who have obtained pension rights in one of these state bodies. The basic condition is that those persons do not have a lastingly settled housing issue or are inadequately resolved. The priority for buying an apartment is persons who do not have a permanent residential issue compared to those with an unsuitable apartment. It should also be pointed out that the right to purchase an apartment cannot be achieved by members of the security forces, as well as by members of the household who have estranged from the day of entry into force of this law the immobility they owned in the territory of Serbia or in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY. Who read the bill, and some MPs did not read what we saw, could also see the planned structure of future apartments. Garsoniera is up to 32 m2, one bedroom apartment is up to 36 m2, one bedroom apartment up to 46 m2, two bedroom apartment up to 54 m2, two bedroom apartment up to 62 m2, three bedroom apartment up to 70 m2, three bedroom apartment up to 83 m2 and four bedroom apartment up to 92 m2, with a note that a member of the security force that achieves the right to purchase an apartment in accordance with this law is obliged to remain in a working relationship with the body in which it has achieved this right for the next ten years from the day of conclusion of the contract on the purchase of the apartment, except for a person who stops working relationship by exercising his pension rights during that period and cannot alienate the apartment, purchased in accordance with this law, within ten years. In the case of persons former members of security forces who have acquired pensions in those state bodies who have acquired the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions, they cannot alienate such an apartment within ten years of the date of the conclusion of the contract on the purchase of an apartment. From all of this, it is clear that very fair and just conditions have been put in place, that the goal is to prevent any kind of potential abuse, as well as that it is the urgency to really begin with the permanent resolution of this important issue for Serbia. I am pleased that the first work on the procedures carried out for selecting the most favourable bidder and expert supervisors is expected during the summer of this year, therefore, at the end of August of this month. As we have heard, the locations in some of these cities are ready, and I am confident that the necessary planning documents will be adopted in all six cities as soon as possible. Finally, I believe that we all agree that the building is an economic momentum and that it affects other industries, so this law will have an effect primarily on domestic but also on companies and entrepreneurs, as well as on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government unit. I don't have to mention how much impact it will have on security forces because everyone under equal conditions will be able to resolve their own housing needs under very favourable conditions. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I would stress the need to address the status of a large number of illegal pebbles on the banks of Serbia's waterways. There are currently about 150 of them, and they are in the status of temporary objects. This bill foresees a gradual solution to this truly great problem that no doubt burdens this economic activity. Since the legal status of temporary deposits of gravel and sand is regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction, and it prescribes a period of six years, how long temporary construction permits last, as a transitional deadline for a gradual transition to official port areas. Furthermore, the bill provides that units of local self-government are to determine exactly where temporary deposits of gravel and sand can be located, and that they will issue a temporary construction permit based on the temporary authorisation issued by the Port Management Agency. For those temporary deposits of gravel and sand not covered by the decisions of units of local self-government, the possibility of moving to port areas already identified by earlier plans is envisaged or will be established in accordance with spatial plans. Since estimates of over four million tonnes of gravel and sand are estimated annually after the adoption of these amendments to the laws, the expected revenue on the basis of a port tax will be around 600,000 euros, while total generated revenues from all taxis and fees will be over two million euros. As regards the draft law on railways, the conditions for the adoption of a new law on railways, following the application of the applicable law and after considering the necessary needs for certain amendments, were met, in particular in the context of the application of the European Parliament and the Council Directive, which establishes a single European railway area, i.e. the need to improve the efficiency of Serbia's rail system, integration into the market for transport services and the integration of Serbian railways into the European Union's rail system. By separating the operation and management of public railway infrastructure and the operation of rail transport, we took significant steps in rail reform after 14 years. By establishing a public railway infrastructure management company, the "Serb Railways of Serbia" infrastructure, a.d., a passenger transport company, or "Serbia Train" a.d. and goods companies, or "Serbia Kargo" a.d., we have achieved the separation of the methods and funding models, then a clear definition of how much funds are allocated for which purpose, therefore greater responsibility and greater efficiency. So it can be said that it was a good move and that the results are already visible. However, given that the railway is a vital part of Serbia's transport system, that the efficiency of the rail system is a condition for a competitive transport market, that we want better regulation of the rail market, to raise the quality of rail transport services of goods and passengers, it is necessary to improve this system through the adoption of a new law. I would have stopped here because of the time of the parliamentary group, and I'm sure through the debate we'll touch on other important topics that are treated by these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35573	Thank you, colleague Markovic. We are now continuing to report, in order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled single search. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35574	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by giving warm congratulations to all members of Islam here in the National Assembly as well as to all members of the Islamic community of Serbia, and especially to all Muslims in Sandzak because of the emerging month of Ramadan that is beginning tonight, with a desire to spend it in fasting, devotion to God and to achieve the desired, spiritual and moral effects through these ibuds. As far as the laws ahead are concerned, they are extremely important. We're particularly interested in a set of traffic laws. It is certainly the most important that citizens are concerned with the safety of citizens and we appreciate that these proposals have made very significant steps in this regard, but I cannot mention the paths that the people are already calling – the paths of death. These are the roads of Novi Pazar and Sjenica, and Novi Pazar and Tutin, where we often have the deaths and casualties of passengers. True, it rejoices with the frequent announcement of the final resolution of these routes, investments and their construction. I also look forward to the last meeting in Istanbul at the highest peak and another signing memo even though I would finally like to have an operational step. I would, on the other hand, ask the question, because I didn't understand until the end, according to my information, that memo did cover these two routes, but it didn't cover the Senica-Tutin path, and lately in the media, we've had information about how it would first start with the construction of the Tutin and Sjenica road, so is it a mistake or a misunderstanding, I'd like to get answers for it? Of course, in this home, I was talking about the train in Sandzak, and I don't want to repeat it, and some colleagues have already reminded me of it. What I'd like to remind you of is an investment of a detour around New Market, which began 11 years ago. Only a few hundred meters was done. It was started then by Prime Minister Kostunica and Minister Ugljanin with large announcements, but after 11 years we do not have a serious continuation of these works, especially not the end. The question I once again want to draw attention to, which I asked the government here when we had questions to the government, and also the fact that the Secretary-General was not present. Namely, illegal collection of funds from citizens in the area of Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica. So it's about millions of Euros, which are collected by local community activists, municipalities, city services. We've got confessions that they've been collected, somewhere we don't have. After that discussion, I heard from both parties of justice and reconciliation, dozens of citizens, some even provided us with lists, some even some receipts, etc. So it's a very important issue, a very large crime scene and abuse. I haven't got the deal yet. It is necessary, not only to have an answer, but to urgently proceed with investigative actions and to process such abuse. You see, when someone does something on behalf of the local community, the municipalities, the city administration, any state authority, it's called a state for citizens on the ground. It is extremely important to determine precisely the responsibilities and process those who are guilty and those who have dealt with these criminal activities. That's why I don't think the government's silence and the rest of the ministry is good. My information is that it was done at lower levels, so it would be very important to get the light back on. I remind you, it's about people on behalf of the authorities at the level of the local community, municipalities and cities collecting money from citizens on lists, giving receipts somewhere without any receipts allegedly for road financing. Some of the roads were built somewhere, the minister was surprised and I was surprised until I saw the eyes and got dozens of such testimony. Please light this up as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35575	Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Dr Dragan Vesović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you've hurt Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, where a speaker in the National Assembly session is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. So, just now, a colleague of Enis mentioned Sandzak, and now a esteemed colleague, Zukorlic. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is the Raska area. I usually join the congratulations of my distinguished fellow Zukorlic, members of the Muslim faith in the Republic of Serbia for the beginning of the month of Ramadan, I want them to spend it in peace, joy and God to strengthen them, but it can be in the Rasko area and Serbia. Sandzak does not exist under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As there is a Bosniak language to which colleagues are called, this does not exist. I'd like you to take care of the dignity of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35577	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. Dr. Bacevac did it this morning and congratulated. As for the application of certain terms, I don't think I've violated the Rules of Procedure. So, freedom of speech in parliament, so no problem, I don't think it was the intention of the previous speaker to insult this esteemed home in any way. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35578	Article 106. So, I would like to draw attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure with regard to non-compliance with constitutional provisions, which directly affects members of a different national or religious community, in this case the national community, by suggesting or insisting on the right to speak its language, to use terms and words from its native language. It is certainly not difficult to note that colleagues from the party from whom we have heard these remarks do not respect this principle themselves. We just heard one Turkishism, riding, so you're riding, which means slow, certainly not the only notion they're using, so I would ask them, if they want to clear Sandzak as a term, then let them start from Karajords, so that Karajordje is not Kara, let it be Black Djordje, so Karaburma be not Karaburma, but a black wedding ring, so Dorcool be not Dorcool, but four times, so Calemegdan be not Calemegdan, but a fortress, or a fortress, etc., we could count for a very long time. It's not about the principle and ambition to clear the language of words that come from another culture, but it's clearly about certain viruses of impatience, I don't want to say chauvinism, but it smells like that, so I'd like to ask my colleagues from the Dvora to get a hold of those attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35579	Thank you. I am absolutely sure that Dr. Vesovic did not have a bad intention and I think that this debate on administrative units, the geographical definitions of a particular territory, we can leave for a round table here in the Assembly. Comrade Zukorlic, would you like the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. A colleague of Bosko Obradović, on what basis are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35580	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35582	The Honorable Chairman, under Article 108. The Rules of Procedure that you have broken, you should take care of the order at the National Assembly session, that is, to take care of it. counterpart Muamer Zukorlic must understand that as much as he has the right to have an administrative unit within the state of Serbia calling for him to come to mind, according to the Turkish military administrative term Sandzak, the occupation, so we too have the right to remind the public and you that there is no such thing, that we have freed ourselves from Turkish slavery, that there is a Raška administrative district within the administrative division of the state of Serbia and no Sandzak. So, nothing here is disputed, we are colleagues here from the congregation benches, we normally communicate, we respect different religions and nations, we argue about whether there is a Bosnian or Bosniak language, etc., but what we undoubtedly have an obligation to respect territorial integrity and administrative division within the Republic of Serbia. There will be no more sledds here, nor will there ever be any of them, nor will there ever be any more. This is the state of Serbia and in this sense we have a very negative memory of the period of Turkish slavery of this people, which lasted hundreds of years. I would ask Mr Zukorlic, whom I respect and appreciate, that when he talks about this remarkable matter, he does not cause very bad memories of the Serbian people for the period when we were enslaved under the Turks, when our children were taken away from our mothers and taken to the lambs, when we were pushed into chariots, when we experienced in every other way something that should not have happened. So, in that sense, Sandzak associates us to the Turkish military administration and we object to that term.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35583	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Let us continue, to take advantage of what Minister Mihajlovic has here, to talk about roads, railways and other aspects of the laws. I'm sure my colleague Zukorlic didn't mean it either. We're going back to work. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Professor Zorana Mihajlović tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35584	Thank you. A few additional information related to rehabilitation and road reconstruction in the Raška area. What you said was not a memorandum for rehabilitation of Sjenica-Tutin, you're right, because we haven't yet had fully prepared project-technical documentation, only partially, and that's why we want, otherwise, everything we do, to do so that we have documentation and then we move into any kind of memoranda, contracts, etc. However, the delegation, among other things, is still here and I think today they are both in Sjenica and Novi Pazar. So what I'm sure is done, and the value of it is a minimum of 100m euros, so, yes, the Aljinovics, if I'm wrong, sorry for the exact name, Sjenica-Novi Pazar, Novi Pazar-Tutin, that's what we do. In addition, another important major infrastructure project is in this memo, which is the issue of the highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, which is also the company with which we will carry out evaluations of the investment value this time and on the Serbian side, but also on the Bosnian side. Otherwise, why is this important? It is not only a question of better maintenance, which will be in the next period, I am absolutely sure, on all roads to Serbia, and in this area. It's this new Law of Ways that some things change. Things are changing that are related to the maintenance process itself, ways of categorizing roads are changing. We really had a jumble, I'd say, on the territory of local self-government, when we talk about what category and what road it is, depending on then and the jurisdiction that performs maintenance, etc. That's one thing and one thing. Another thing, for your information, after 27, 28 years, last year we ordered a tender for road maintenance in Serbia. Earlier on, it was based on contracts that existed since 1992, 1993, and then every year they were annexed, and then something like that happened to Serbia compared to the companies that had been sharing, now it's not like that, now it's not like that, now it's going to be held 3,000 miles on the basis of the recording, by making a public call. We'll make a public call for the other 16,000 kilometers this year. That's what I'm telling you because it turns out that based on that we have lower maintenance costs, we have better companies that do it. It's precisely a public invitation to determine what kind of company it should be, what kind of equipment it should have, so it can even deal with the maintenance process. That's what I'm saying because he's right. So here it takes a lot more maintenance and not only to do rehabilitation and reconstruction, but when we end it up really taking care of it the right way in the roads, because it often happens to us in Serbia's territory that we've finished something, so for the past 20 years, rehab and reconstruction end, and then after that, whoever maintains or doesn't, and then we have even more damage. As for this other thing you said, raising some money from local communities, we really didn't get to know about it. At least you have contact with the ministry, you have the secretary of state, please, give information, it will react immediately, there are institutions in this country, so it will certainly be seen why and how, before there are clear rules and procedures on how to invest in roads, how to build and how their realization is done. I will remind you that once before, ministers had passed some part of Serbia and had practically ordered or ordered the construction of a road, without any paper, it really doesn't happen anymore. If there's a problem, it'll be solved, I guess, at some local level. But we'll solve it, give us information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35585	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. He's not there. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35586	Dear Minister and distinguished fellow MPs, we have very important laws ahead of us. The European Union itself has created better integration and better co-operation between the most developed countries of Europe. Their desire to get closer to the roads and to make their industries better tied has led to the Europe we have. I'm glad you're passing that trend on to us. Much is done in Serbia, Corridor 10 is developing, the planned Corridor 11 will pass through Sandzak and pass through the Cave. It's a big deal for both Serbs and Bosniaks living in the area, and most importantly, we're going to connect with central Serbia and try to present our products together to all foreign markets. That's the goal and that's the policy of this government. The memos you signed with the Turkish firm are very happy. It is the state of the road bad in Sandzak. There was a state of roads in Novi Pazar as well, but my political party led by Rasim Ljajic managed to build 400 new streets in Novi Pazar in just a few years, and this year, for information to some who have not heard, after 11 years, you started, precisely with your money, 200 million dinars, to continue building, or to build a bypass around Novi Pazar, and that is something to be commended. Your ministry is doing well with what your ministry has and your ministry is really giving an impulse and to say one wind in the back to all Sandzak citizens who want to benefit from this country what is planned, which is building and connecting with Bosnia, in which both Bosniaks and Serbs live, what is planned with the revitalisation of the roads that are in desperate condition and which will be achieved very quickly, thanks to the quality policy exactly, and this is the quick path of Sjenica – Tutin, which is mentioned and where are being discussed by certain Turkish companies and members, their representatives in the transport ministries, what is planned in the revitalisation of the roads of Alenović - Sjenica – Novi Pazar, Novi Pazar – Tutin, the most important thing for the construction of Sandzak and that part of Serbia, so whatever you want to call it. You understand me well in pure Bosnian, and that's our advantage. Our advantage is that we want, unlike others, to deal with the construction and promotion of this country, and not to confuse people with agreed conflicts, fictional topics. It's about time we pushed this country forward on behalf of the citizens who voted for us and that's something this government does. I will remind you, the biggest and that said by the president of this country, he publicly thanked the biggest step and the biggest link and the best link in connecting this country with Turkey were Bosniaks. I am really glad that President Vukic praised the influence and action of Mr Rasim Ljajic. I thank you, too, because you've done a lot, and that's something with a well-developed government policy and a well-designed policy led by Mr. Vukic, with his cabinet and his government, which is in the interest of all citizens and that all citizens should support. In that sense, the SDP will support all your proposed laws and we look forward to every mile of the new road. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35587	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35588	Thank you for your words. With Vice President Rasim Ljajic, we were in Turkey and had a very successful trip. What I'd like to inform you, when we talk about Raška County, the Raška Municipality has spent the last three years just maintaining roads, so 131 million dinars have been invested. The municipality of Novi Pazar 360 million dinars, the municipality of Tutin 400 million dinars. I'm only talking about regular maintenance here. In addition to regular maintenance there is increased maintenance, there are other additional things. So it can be said that for each of these things there was another 20% certainly more. What's my message, and that's why I answered, is that roads, first of all, bring people together no matter what faith they were, and we need them for development and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35589	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. She's not present. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35590	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests, MPs as well as respected citizens, the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, should create a basis for solving a significant problem that has existed for decades and has almost never come to the public's attention. It is about the housing problem of our citizens who are employed in the military, the police and other related services, whose responsible work is embodies with high risk exposure, including direct life threats. The nature of the work of these services is such that employees are very involved in the needs of the service that requires them to carry out their tasks without talking, regardless of the time and place. This puts far more personal problems in the face of family life, and among them is certainly one of the most important, residential issues. Often moving and different places of service make it impossible for these people to get out of the house in the right sense of that word, most of them are already condemned to the most common very long statuses of sub-optimal life. This further negatively affects not only the degree of personal satisfaction and motivation for work but also the lives of other family members of these employees and their children. An even more painful problem is the tragic fates of those members of our armed forces who, at the time of the outbreak of wars in ex Yugoslavia, found themselves serving in the secular republics and where the good part was found in the service and from there, had to, most of them move out, or by the peoples, so they had to save themselves and their family by coming to Serbia, often without anything and getting so-called. A necessary accommodation that has lasted for some of them for three decades, most often in a modest, unconditional space. The president, Mr. Vucic, recognized everything together with the government the importance of this problem and for the first time in a long time proposed concrete solutions to its gradual elimination. The law stipulates that apartments ranging from 32m to 92m square meters will be built according to typical projects for members of the military, police, BIA and judicial guards, and that funds for their construction as well as for municipal infrastructure equipment will be provided and financed by the Republic of Serbia. The local self-government will have the duty to provide planning and urban documents and a solution to the building permit. Article 10. The draft law provides that the cost of construction cannot exceed 500 euros per metre per square metre without value added tax, and to achieve such a price in Article 14 is indicated that the products of their domestic producers are primarily used in participation of at least 80%. The resolution ministry will determine on the basis of its sub-legislative acts who has the right to purchase these apartments, and then with the Republic of Serbia as an investor, enter into an apartment purchase contract. The potential buyer will take the obligation to remain in a working relationship for at least ten years, to the body in which he works, that for ten years he will not be able to alienate him, and that if he exceeds this limit then he will be obliged to pay the difference between the contract price and the market price in that place. I don't think it's necessary to stress the positive effects of this system of housing. On the one hand, building apartments will achieve economic effects, starting with giving significant jobs to the construction industry, by charging taxes to increasing banking activities and lending. Even more important are the effects that cannot be easily quantified, which are measured by the happiness and satisfaction of individuals who have solved one of their main life problems and existences. Such a man will be more willing to have more offspring behind him and to give his maximum benefit to society on heavy and responsible duties. In that sense, I would personally appeal that the Government, in some perspective, as much as financial opportunities allow us, extends these programmes to all young couples, because we already had one such initiative in 2000, but because of the facts of different circumstances, unfortunately, it has not been realised. I think that programmes should be designed and there should be ways to help young married couples in the country at any cost to grow better, because in our villages, the age and weariness of the housing fund is very large, and this, in addition to all other negative factors, has an additional impact on young people leaving rural areas. In any case, convinced of the advantage of such a legal solution, my parliamentary group of United Pensioners will support this law, as well as all others in the set of laws that you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35591	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35592	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, co-workers of the ministry, mostly my speech in the time I have I will dedicate to the Law on Railways and the Law on Roads. In all reasons, you have stated that laws are passed for one reason, which is because of EU accession and harmonisation with European laws. The reason for the adoption of new laws is to improve the efficiency of the railway system in the Republic of Serbia, I quote your arguments, because of the EU that started the procedure for unifying EU countries' railways into a single system, and this is not about achieving a single European railway, but about unique and effective conditions for traffic, without obstacles and discrimination from any participant. I would like to point out only one example of the Vojvodina that looked like this by 1990: the Vojvodina in the period between the two world wars had the densest network of railways in Europe. The railway had a crucial impact on economic and social development in Europe at the time, and the degree of development of European regions was then demonstrated by the length of railway lines on 10,000 inhabitants. Vojvodina and Slovenia were then at the same level of economic development, with the province being ahead in rail transport, agriculture and food industries. In 1990, the railway was centralized, without any economic criteria. ZTO Novi Sad became only a section of the new company, and on the ground there was estrangement and extraction of assets of unseen proportions. For example, about 100 km of high voltage power grid was taken, which was prepared for electrification of the direction of Subotica-Sombor-Bogojevo, and it is unknown where 30 km of completely new tracks were taken. The dark has also filed computer systems from Subotica and Novi Sad. It was dragged away without any record on hundreds of cars and locomotives, anything that was new and valid. Vojvodina introduced a zero phase of the electronic train tracking system, among the first in then-Yugoslavia, with computers in Novi Sad and Subotica, and is now listed as a major newspaper. While there was a “Vojvodine Railway” and while the railways and stations were cared for in Vojvodina, we also had railways and arranged railway stations. Now the Vojvodina has nothing, and as it is empty, maybe the local railways will be completely shut down, and the Vojvodina will be left to pass only a fast train to Budapest. Today there are 1750 km of railways in Vojvodina. Two corridors: Belgrade-Shid, Belgrade-Sabotica. Two are highways: Subotica-Sombor-Bogojevo and Belgrade-Pancevo-Vršac. There is no traffic within 400 km of the track, while at 350 km of rail traffic takes place occasionally and where necessary. The railway infrastructure manager has an obligation to maintain permanent and quality railway lines. It is the company "Infrastructure of Serbia", which is 100% owned by the Republic of Serbia. So, in the job description, all these jobs are done by this stock company, and it needs to maintain the construction electrical infrastructure. In 2017, the company made revenue from the compensation of railway undertakings of about four billion dinars. Do these facilities that are being held by this company include railway stations? In fact, the state of railway stations is more or less catastrophic. For example, the Novi Sad Railway Station, which was built in the 1960s, was a concept of beauty and functionality. The pigeons moved into the lobby today. She used to have digital clocks and driving monitors, and today she doesn't have any of that. It's a dirty object, and worst of all, there's no moving stairs, so passengers struggle with luggage to get on the platform. This station is the first facility seen by all EHIT visitors and other passengers arriving in Novi Sad. In response to my question that I asked you, you stated that this railway station would be reconstructed in the framework of the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway. I'm asking you -- is it just going to be make-up or is this facility seriously reconstructed, in line with modern technical solutions that exist all over Europe? A similar situation is with stations in places between Saturday and Belgrade. A beautiful and modern train passes through stations that are unturned, printed with graphite, from the gutter hanging trees, etc. What's the situation with the sanitary nodes, the waiting rooms, I've got a picture they sent me from Sremska Mitrovica from the train station, where in the winter the sewerage pipe broke and the holo station was covered in feces for days. Or, for example, there was a problem with the height of the platform at the station in Dragon, where passengers cannot get on the train because the platform is not adapted to the threshold. All in all, it leaves an ugly picture of us. The Rehabilitation and Resuscitation Programme of the Railway Infrastructure from 2017 to 2021 states that there has been a deterioration of the technical state of the system in general due to insufficient maintenance resources, so individual facilities have been brought into critical condition. Only 3.6% of the track is possible to develop speed over 100 km per hour. It is a drastic example of the Sava Bridge in Belgrade, at which the train runs at a speed of 8 to 10 km per hour. When was the test, reliability and security of this bridge carried out? Passengers already instinctively stop talking and talk when they approach that bridge. I know, I'm on that train, so I know how passengers behave, because they're afraid of what's gonna happen. It is in the eyes that shares planned depending on the security of funds, the connection of Novi Sad, as the province center, has remained, until it is abolished, too, with other cities. So the Dukes can no longer travel from Novi Sad to Pančevo or Vršac, but from Novi Sad they must come to Belgrade and travel from here to some duchy places. In the light of the bill, you state that autonomous provinces and local self-government can be involved in financing the maintenance of railway infrastructure, traffic regulation and public transport financing for railways that are interested. I ask you - are local self-governments ready to take over the right to manage and finance, because they cannot fulfil all legal procedures, i.e. they have no means, no adequate personnel, no necessary permits, certifications. And what if my municipality of The Tower, from which I come, accepts to lead and master the railroad on its territory, and neighboring Vrbas does not accept it? Is the passengers going to sit there or walk from the Tower to the Serbs, because they won't be able to take the train to the Vrbs? Does this mean that the “Vojvodine Railways” that once existed will be created, since how else is it involved in the organisation and regulation of traffic? The second law I'm going to talk about is the Law of Paths, which we talked about today, and mostly I'm going to talk about wind-protection belts. In Serbia, wind protection belts are nobody's concern, and the state's reaction occurs only when garbage or some elemental accident occurs. Planting protective wood is a forgotten practice. The existing woodsheds intersect along the roads and do not care about the restoration of the cut tree. There's a special situation in Vojvodina. In the past, roads in Vojvodina were protected by dense woodwoods that had more protective functions, protection from snow in the winter months, in summer sun protection and high temperatures, and at the same time protection of war crops needed to protect land from erosion. Vojvodina remains the least forested region of Europe, with not a full 7% of forest surfaces, while standards predict a minimum of 14% noise. According to estimates of experts and their warnings, in the past few years, Vojvodina lacks 130,000 hectares of forest. The Autonomous Region shall be entrusted as the entrusted work of the State Administration to carry out inspection oversight of the application of the provisions of Article 87. A bill of travel. This solution comes from a similar situation that we find in the application of the Law on Forests, where inspection is carried out by the Ministry through a forest inspector, etc., and an autonomous province is entrusted with the exercise of inspection supervision of the application of forest law in the territory of the AP. However, the green belt along the roads is not in the focus of the interest of any resistor, so we, LSV, have given an amendment to define the obligation to lift and maintain wind protection belts and we hope that you will adopt this amendment, respecting the specificities of the situation in Vojvodina. Another question is still about the Law of Ways, I ask you, when will the construction of the Fruscogorian Corridor begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35593	Thank you, colleague. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35594	Thank you for your questions. Somehow you and I are always talking about the French Corridor, it's really a very important corridor, and you know from every moment that we've come, so I'm saying, then I guess you know that the Memorandum with the Chinese company is also signed on to go into realisation, that is to say, in the talks on the commercial contract. The government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the province government, formed a working group perhaps a few months ago, and now we begin to negotiate and talk with the Chinese company, first of all, about the commercial contract, therefore, the conditions and ways in which we will work the French Corridor. It's not, of course, the only Corridor we're working on. We've got a follow-up here, but around the Fruscogorian Corridor, I expect we'd really have to have a closed contract this year. As far as the Roads Act goes on, you asked about safety belts and you're absolutely right here, but in Articles 86 or 87, we predicted it here in the bill of law -- the Public Road Manager is required to ensure public road protection and traffic on that road in places subject to immersion or exposed to snow applications, floods, strong winds and so on, that I don't read. Anyway, we'll take a look at the amendment. Anything that can speed up and make this law better, we'll do it. Now, I'd rather go back to the railroad itself, since you've talked a lot about it. I don't want to repeat at all how much of this has been done. It's impossible not to see. There are some things that have really been done in the area of reconstruction, rehabilitation and reforming of railway companies. What is, say, a newspaper of this Law on Railways, is that we introduce a criminal offence for damage to railway infrastructure. We are all witnessing what has been happening in recent years, somehow as if it was a habit of destroying trains, it will no longer be possible and I believe in the fact that it won't be like that anymore, since now and by law we prescribe a criminal act if it happens, or I believe that in that sense, and of course, a lot more punishment than it was. When we talk about railways and local self-government, can they finance, etc., of course, a part of them who is interested, that's what they can do. For example, we have a business-technical co-operation contract to improve rail passenger traffic on the route of Subotica – Kikinda – Subotica, 87km long, the value of the contract is five million dinars. Then, we have a contract on mutual rights and obligations of controllers, infrastructure and local self-government for the regular maintenance of the Vrbas – Tower – Sombor, 52 kilometers, the value of the contract is 10 million dinars. What is just one, I would say, the pillar of reforming the Railways is that certain railways, where there is a clear interest in the unit of local self-government, are going into talks and that the cost of any maintenance or relationship with the manager is regulated along with the unit of local self-government. In addition, there are several districts and an indicative estimate of the funds for the minimum annual maintenance of these railways. I wouldn't read it now, most of it is right on the territory of Vojvodina. I believe that there will be many more contracts in this sense in the coming period, because we are constantly talking to local self-governments and those in their future budgets, i.e. in new budgets and preparing such things. Train stations. The Law on Railways, which is a newspaper, is that many services are now much clearer and more detailed. One of them is a question of railway stations, because at the end of each train trip, the start and end of each train journey begins and ends right at the train station. I must say, by last year, two or three railway stations have only been reconstructed for the past seven years. That's the information we found at the beginning of last year. Each year, the task of infrastructure and "Serbia" is to make plans that railway stations can further reconstruct from their resources. It's not make-up and it's not just painting some cell to make it look good at the moment, but it's known that they have to look like such cells. This year, the facilities of the railway station that are planned for recovery are first Novi Sad, among other things, then Mladenovac, Vranje, Vranjačka Banja, Lapovo, Sevojno, Bor and Nis. These are cells that will be reconstructed, arranged the way modern cells should look. I'm glad you noticed, because when you talked about the stations, you said – a nice and modern train passes, and then we have a bad station. You're right about that. That's what, among other things, is one of the results. We started buying trains, buying locomotives, putting them on all those shares we rehabilitated or reconstructed. New trains are coming, clean trains, arranged trains, as well as new locomotives, therefore, and these stations must look modern, as is the case with all European standards. That would be all on your question for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35595	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35596	I'll be brief. In some ways you confirmed what I said would only exist in Vojvodina, that there would only be a quick train to Budapest, that it would simply put out the local railways, because in Vojvodina only Novi Sad would be reconstructed, I think, by train station in Novi Sad and nothing more than that. About these fines, I don't know how you're gonna do it, about destroying the train stations. I'm kind of interested in that. For example, the wind protection belts provided for these wind protection belts, but the old law. I don't know if anyone was punished for destroying those windscreens, destroying trees, cutting trees by the roads? I'm afraid it's going to be the same now. I'm saying, LSV has given good amendments and I think we'd also improve the Law on Roads and the Law on Railways, so I ask you to take another look at it, because we gave it for the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35597	Thank you. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35598	Now we just need a little bit more detail, because you're just wrong. If we look at the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then the highest value of investment in the area of rail transport, including road traffic, is right on the territory of Vojvodina. And we're talking about three billion euros in investments currently being made in Vojvodina territory. That's the first thing. Second of all, I don't know where any idea that we're just going to reconstruct the train station of Novi Sad? Well, I guess it's natural and logical, you said yourself how important it is, that we'll start with it first. I guess it's natural that the one that's the biggest, very important, center of administration and the province, that we're going to start to reconstruct it. So that's why it's 2018. It doesn't start and end in 2018. They have everything next year ahead of us where we plan for the next three years to complete the reconstruction of all the railway stations we have on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When you talk about Belgrade's fast track - Budapest, now I don't understand, are you against it or are you up for it? I think it's great and it goes from Belgrade to Budapest we have a fast track, but it's not the only track that works and is reconstructed. You are currently doing, among other things, the reconstruction of the Pancevo – Orlovac – Zrenjanin, e.g. There is no part of Serbia that we want to declare or want to invest slightly less in it or just go through a city. Well, how would that be possible? The new Sad is an administrative centre and as important as any other city in Serbia. Let's not talk about the French Corridor now, about the investment in roads. We're talking about nearly three billion euros in investment in Vojvodina territory. If you have suggestions and you think it's strategically important for some other part, give us a proposal, we'll consider it for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35599	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35600	Thank you. Looking at the agenda, he's mumming, a large number of agenda points for Mom to talk about. But it's not possible to talk about everything. I think the roads deserve a serious analysis, a new Law of Ways. But I'm going to say a little bit about the roads, so I'm going to go over the second bill of law. This relationship towards the Ministry's and Serbian Roads, I think, first came out clearly, loudly, what is done, the attitude towards roads, but all levels, from highways to local roads to roads in local communities, even the lowest uncategorized road. The minister also appears, given that I was a participant in a lot of things, and the director of the Serbian Roads who simply cares about the roads of all levels, because the roads are roads, regardless of its significance, size, need, whether it serves international traffic, whether it serves the most remote home, home in the village. So, you need to take care of all the roads, regardless of which is not the ultimate jurisdiction of this level from the state level, but there are also environments that can't be handled with these problems, and then there's the state that jumps in to help on those roads. That's why I commended you for your relationship with the roads, the construction, and the part about how much road supplies are allocated. Next, I'd move on, because I'm from that area, so I guess that's what attracts me the most, a bill on the registration procedure in the motions of immovableity and water. I just want to say for the public that this is a law, by my judgment, even though I'm not a lawyer in that part, but I think it's a great law. Perhaps one of the best and most qualitative laws, which is not great, is not burdened, simple, understandable, applicable. When I took it to read it in more detail, to prepare myself for this public debate, I practically didn't have the space for something, because it's the easiest thing to prepare for a debate if you have any objection to something. When you don't have a comment, it's hard. I just don't have any objections, and I think this is something that moves borders in one area that's neither easy nor convenient for work, but it's brought in an easy way, a simplified way, and what contributes to the development of this country, the economy, the public sector, and primarily citizens. What is very often objecting to why someone is not listed in the equities catastra, etc., simply, and so far, legal regulations have spoken, i.e. legal regulations, or the Law on state diameter and catastrous, said that simply the immobiliser is obliged to report all changes to his immovableity. We simply did not do so first, and then we can complain to the competent authority or to a special organization, or the Republic Geodesy. The current bill, where I say that I have almost no objections, describes the course of the proceedings in the building block and is primarily introduced that status of office. So, most of it's been since July 1st, 2018. The notaries, i.e. public notebooks, are obliged to provide through e-mail, i.e. e. e. e. e., a certain document to the Republic Geodetic Office, or organisational units in the territory where they act, where the most virtually is documents and, as far as public records are concerned, and as regards courts, and as regards other state bodies that adopt such acts, that practically all will be obliged to speed up the delivery of such reports in any subsequent period. The Republic Geodetic Institute, through its organisational units, will take steps to take it into action and to resolve it as soon as possible. What has been kind of a practice so far, and now in particular, is that the services for the catastre of immovableity or catastries will see that the formal conditions for the entry of immovableity and water are met. There's no mention of water here, but I think it's an important thing and some perspective and something that's going to make us do it. Usually, the waters are hidden. They have to be drawn somewhere to say, if we need them, that, that, that, that, etc. It is therefore important to include this, as regards the technical work, and as regards both the legal work or the administrative work. Next, I told you about the connection to the e-salters. Something to point out, I think this law is talking, and that's correcting mistakes. Mistakes are possible, and the possibility of correcting the error in one easy way, if it is determined that an error is made, then you can easily correct it. It's one big plus, especially on property, immovableity, where we're all a little bit sensitive, someone more, someone less, and I think we're all sensitive, and in the end the state is sensitive to it. Furthermore, second-degree security has been secured, which is very important, judicial protection and I might say that this law, or many of the laws have been braked at the beginning. This law is not blocked, it gives one width, one space for a good functioning of the state, or Republic Geodesy. What is most accomplished is speed and simplicity, and it is not easy to achieve, especially with the new regulation offered here by the Assembly for adoption. The implementation of this law will be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute through its organisational units, units in cities and municipalities, or popular disaster. The collection of cadastres is practically the Republic Geodetic Institute with the central and management of the central. I am sure that the Republic Geodetic Institute will implement this law well through its organisational units, that workers working at the Republic Geodetic Institute will carry out such a good law in action, where it will be very visible to this country and to the citizens. What I think is just as important and what I'd like to say here may not be the end of the subject, but what I'm saying is that in the catastrian geodesy every data, absolutely every data is permanent, it was technically, it was legal. I'll say something that can be a good example. I like to talk through examples. Let's say, field data, if it's specified any time, it's always a permanent data and it's always left behind. The solution to changes in immovable property and the registration of real estate rights is always permanent. There's nothing here that's been excluded for five years, ten years, etc. All data is permanent. That's why this is an important area with good legal regulations. It's just, I think it's going to move seriously in all the parts of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35601	The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35602	Dear MP, thank you for these words, especially when we talk about the catastrophe. It's really another important area we have to solve. I'd also like to inform, I suppose most of you know that, in the second degree, we had about 26,000 unsolved items that have been touched by at least 40,000 people, because they've been unsolved for many years since the 1990s. We're talking about a halved number now. That's what the cadastre has managed to do for the past almost a year, but that's why we're going to have a situation now that the enrollment in the cadastre compared to this law is going to take place within five days. It's one thing, and the other thing is that it won't really be going on a few counters anymore, so when you go to the cadastre first, then from the cadastre afterwards to the tax administration, you come back when you enter, etc. There will be no more, and now we have a public notary who will practically do this for us, or for his parties. Also, you mentioned at the beginning of the roads, one information that is public, is that, for example, the revenue from toll in 2017 compared to 2013, we are talking about tolls on highways, increased by 42m euros. It happened, not because someone suddenly decided to go through Serbia, but because Serbia began to end much faster and more efficiently its projects in the roads, first of all, highways and we are proud of that result. This year we expect the record number of cars on Corridor 10, i.e. on the highway. So thank you, I believe this law will be passed and we will implement it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-15-0.u35603	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not here. I thank Professor Zorana Mihajlovic and her team for their commitment and co-operation and all the MPs. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, everyone. [[The session was suspended at 18.55 hours]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, so we have the quorum necessary for work. Dear People’s MPs, before we continue to work, need the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 279. The Rules of Procedure, which determines the resignation of a member of the Government, have been subject to conditions. You have accepted the resignation of government member Dr Dusan Vujovic, acting as finance minister. On the basis of Article 133. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 279. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, finds that Dr Dusan Vujovic, resigned as Finance Minister and that, on the day of his resignation, he was suspended from his term as Minister of Finance in the government. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Vujic Obradovic, Vojislav Vujic, Marija Jevdzic and Djordje Kosanic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 20 and item 22 of the agenda, according to the order of the application for a word. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. He's not there. MP Dubravko Bojic has a word. Here you go.
