ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a double violation of the Rules of Procedure. First, based on the fact that we don't have a Rules of Procedure yet, and we've gone deep into the second year of work of the National Assembly. Secondly, we have a proposal in front of us under Article 92 to bring together a debate on 16 points of the agenda. True, Article 92 provides that a proposal for a merger can be submitted, but when we look at earlier rules, it was more precise than it is now and it was said that a debate on related laws could be combined, and the debate on two, three laws was most combined. So far, we have precedents to combine the debate with 30 laws. Today, a debate on 16 very important laws is being brought together. I can't say in 20 minutes how I feel about these laws. Maybe I'm dumber than the others, it takes me 320 minutes and I urge to bring an urgent new Rules of Procedure, and to reject the motion to merge the debate because it is unwise, illogical, counterproductive and represents an anti-democratic trend. These anti-democracy tendencies are getting more and more common. We have to worry about it and we have to put an end to it. All I need for the police law is 20 minutes at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28972	Thank you, here, it's been two minutes. So, a double breach of the Rules of Procedure comes to you as a double axel in the skating.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28973	Okay, Maya, it's easy for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28974	You were too late to break the Rules of Procedure, because the ones you brought out were supposed to be out yesterday before the vote to join the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28975	And you'd take it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28976	I would think deeply about your words. It is my duty when one of the MPs proposes a merger of the agenda to put it to the vote. The majority in parliament decided by their vote to merge the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28977	There is something in political theory called the tyranny of the majority over the minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28978	We're just about to approach the debate on the joint agenda points today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28979	And we're not interested in political theory.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28980	And you should consider, today there were no representatives of your parliamentary group at the college, there were discussions on possible work on a new draft of the Rules of Procedure, which would help us all to make this parliament work better than it has done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28981	It's not possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28982	I ask that one of the MPs from your parliamentary group, I would like it to be you, come to the next college. Thank you very much. We can't put this breach to the vote of the Rules of Procedure, because you didn't list the members exactly, and you agreed...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28983	I said Article 92.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28984	You agreed that article 92 allows this kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28985	But not this way. This is an abuse of Article 92.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28986	Okay. I agree, of course, but I can't rule you out. We have a new screen, I don't know how to turn it off. Does the proposal's representative, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic want to explain the bill's proposals? (Yes) The word has Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28987	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at today's session of the National Assembly, it is my pleasure to present to you a set of laws in the field of internal affairs. These laws have been prepared for a longer period of time and you saw that some have arrived in the procedure of the National Assembly in the middle of last year. So we've had enough time to consider them and I'm glad all the laws are in regular procedure. Maintaining the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their assets, supporting and improving their Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms was and remained the most important primary goal of the MUP and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the general geo-political situation, it is necessary to put particular focus on raising police capacity to prevent all forms of crime, especially terrorism, organised crime, trafficking in human beings, as well as combating high-tech crime, which is becoming an increasing threat in world affairs. On the other hand, the obligation to reduce administrative burdens, as one of the government's priorities, must be met, both by the MUP and by all other authorities of the state administration, and therefore one major challenge is the introduction of new institutes into the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, our legal system. Of course, on the other hand, we have an obvious need to protect citizens' personal data, particularly sensitive citizens' data, personality data, as well as the natural protection of socially vulnerable persons, human rights and freedoms, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our ministry is responsible and openly preparing these laws, accessing all the challenges, I would say fundamentally, facing them. The documents ahead of you are the result of work aimed at creating conditions for the modern, democratic and effective institutional functioning of police to protect the rights and freedom of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to stress that the legislation we are going to discuss is a significant step in all the processes of raising standards in this area in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I think it is very important to pay attention to the area of foreign asylum, state border control, the establishment of a national DNA register and the safety of road traffic. The adoption of the proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection on foreigners and on border control is of paramount importance for the further EU accession process, because, in addition to the adoption of these laws, we meet the activities set out in the Action Plan, there are also preconditions for taking further steps towards implementing these legal solutions. First of all, it is always important for me to point out that, besides actually meeting certain criteria that we have in EU accession, we are doing this primarily because of our citizens. By passing these laws, we increase the efficiency of police, we protect our citizens' rights better, but so do foreigners who come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would also refer to the importance of the provisions relating to the area of protection of electronic identity data, which are contained in several legal solutions, notably amendments and additions to the Police Act, the already established national criminal intelligence system, as an electronic platform for the exchange of information between authorities involved in the fight against the most serious forms of crime, is more regulated. Similarly, the establishment of a national DNA register will significantly contribute to the efficiency and economy of the criminal proceedings, as well as to the achievement of the security of international data exchange in the lighting of criminal offences. In the last three or four years, we have achieved very intense international co-operation and the formation of joint investigation teams with the prosecution and police, not only in Europe, but worldwide. In this way, the exchange of information that is regulated by law protects the citizens of our country in which information can be exchanged, but allows the Republic of Serbia to exchange information about those who can potentially be the bearers of endangerment not only for our country, but also for other countries of the European Union, our region, but of course beyond that. So the implementation of this solution will certainly enable us to cooperate better and to achieve a better way of security for both our citizens and other people who live, to say, around the world. Also, such platforms will allow police work to be done in a more modern manner and the implementation of these solutions is a process, so that the national DNA register in its full capacity, for example, will be established within two years of the entry into force of this law and after the adoption of, of course, sublegal acts for its full implementation. It is also very important to the Law on Records, on the processing of data in the field of internal affairs, which improves the system of data management and processing and records, while at the same time ensuring effective management of procedures, to which these data are processed. For the first time, special attention shall be paid to the legal normation of the protection of personal data and conditions for their processing, by setting in an unambiguous and clear manner the types of data to be kept and processed, their purpose and storage deadlines. The primary contribution that will bring about the adoption of the law in question is reflected in the more effective application of the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, primarily by the provision of criminal prosecution, in order to make the crimes more enlightened and their perpetrators brought to justice, which also results in the purpose of the criminal and criminal policies of the Republic of Serbia. As for the individual laws that are proposed, I will look at each of the proposed laws in short lines. As far as the proposal for a law on foreigners is concerned, this is, I say, the current Act on Foreigners and Sublaws which are being developed and make applicable provisions of the law, and so far rules governing the area of movement and residence of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia have not been amended. Certain shortcomings and inaccuracies were observed when they were applied, and certainly those who required the need to pass a new law in order to remove identified shortcomings. On the other hand, the applicable regulation in this area has not met in many ways and the standards that have been achieved by much more developed countries than our own. Also, all the processes, the migration processes that have been going on in the last three years, have pointed to a change in geostrategic situations around the world and influenced that, of course, we, too, are raising standards and allowing our country to be better protected. Also, during migration, we have seen more important, or to say the more significant possibility of terrorist endangerment and the functioning of a terrorist organisation on Europe's territory, and in fact, of course, by trying to ensure the highest level of respect for human rights so far, we have also sought to ensure the highest degree of security and legal certainty, both of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of foreign citizens entering our country's territory. When creating legal solutions, careful care was taken of the security of the Republic of Serbia. The circumstances that pose an unacceptable risk to our country's security have also been defined and under the circumstances all available state mechanisms are activated to protect the Republic of Serbia from the scenarios we have seen in recent years in the European countries. In view of the fact that the provisions of the proposal for a law on foreigners are more detailed and precisely regulated and the area of legal migration, the conditions and the way of application for a visa of the Republic of Serbia abroad, the procedure to verify at the request of a visa, the regulation of the right to appeal, the refusal of visa requirements and refusal of the entry of foreigners into the Republic of Serbia, and the regulation of conditions for the granting of temporary residence of foreign nationals on different grounds, in particular for scientific research, study, volunteering, the right to temporary stay for victims of human trafficking, humanitarian residence, the regulation of an independent temporary stay, and the regulation of the provisions of common standards and procedures of the Member States of the European Union for the return of third-country nationals with illegal residence, which in many segments does not correspond to our legal regulations, this law constitutes a fundamental system solution for all these issues which have been raised in the previous years. For the first time in the provisions of the Foreign Law, BIA, which, as a state body, is responsible for the affairs of our security protection of the Republic of Serbia, carries out security checks on foreigners through their records in order to determine the absence or existence of unacceptable risks to the safety of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the event of entry and residence of foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for refusing to enter foreigners are laid down, as are the decisions on a standardised form of refusal to enter, which specify the exact reasons for refusal to enter and the time limits. Two degrees in the decision-making process has also been secured by the introduction of the Institute of Appeals, which increases legal certainty, which is a significant newspaper. Refusal of entry to a valid legal solution shall be notified orally to the party, with the impression of refusal to enter the travel document. Domestic legislation is harmonised with the EU visa code. New institutes have been introduced to check the conditions for issuing a visa to a foreigner and risk assessment, where the three authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the BIA carry out field and security checks at the request for visas to a foreign citizen, especially when it comes to visa applications for citizens coming from migration-high risk areas. Foreigners can also be provided, with certain conditions, temporary stay for humanitarian reasons. We have made it possible for victims of domestic violence to be granted an independent, temporary stay in the Republic of Serbia. At the request of a stranger, a translation of the disposition and legal remedy must be provided, a solution to return to a language that the stranger understands or can reasonably be assumed to understand. During the process of returning foreigners, the competent authority must take into account the specific situation of particularly vulnerable persons, the family and health status of the person to whom the return measures are directed, as well as the best interests of minors. Given the importance of this law, from the point of view of everything that is going on, and migration flows, our accession to the EU, but of course the protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that MPs accept this law. As for the proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection, our country has taken over the commitments arising from further harmonisation of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations. In this respect, the solutions and the institutes contained in the bill are the first phase of harmonisation with EU instruments, while full harmonisation will follow in phase two, no later than two years before EU accession. Harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules in these areas is particularly important when viewed in the context of the current migration situation faced by most EU Member States, as it will allow the Republic of Serbia to maintain a high level of respect for internationally accepted human rights standards and asylum seekers' rights while maintaining a high degree of security for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respect for the Constitution and laws. In the period from 2014 to 2016, especially by opening the Western-Balkan route, irregular migration in the territories of the Western Balkan countries has been increased multiplely. The specific geographical position of the Republic of Serbia, as a country of transit of a large number of migrants on their way to Western Europe, has faced our country with new challenges, and there we have a trend of a large number of asylum-seeking intentions, which are never truly achieved, but all those who have expressed their intention to seek asylum, usually take advantage of this right to continue, to take advantage of the time of legal stay in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and then to use it to attempt to cross some of the borders of our neighbouring countries. Also, given that we have defined ourselves to protect human rights of migrants, as well as to tolerate their irregular stay on our territory, because we considered this to be the most humane approach, while with countries that have more opportunities than we have, we would not agree on their return to the countries of origin or otherwise resolve their question whether through the readmission process or through processes of co-operation through international institutions and organisations such as IOM, we would try to bring them back to the countries where they come from. In that period, until this is resolved, we have decided to be good hosts and show the highest possible level of respect for human rights. Also, the process of receiving asylum applications and the formal launch of the asylum area has been launched, as all asylum seekers on our country's territory can wait to meet the conditions for leaving our territory without fear of being punished for illegal entry or stay. You'll see what we've predicted. Therefore, asylum as a right to stay and protection guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia to a foreigner, under the conditions laid down in this law, can be achieved through two forms of protection – the right to shelter, which is received by refugees, a person who, because of his established fear of persecution, has left the country of origin or the usual residence and subsidiary protection provided to a foreigner who does not leave his country of origin for fear of persecution, but for other reasons, but who, in the event of a return to the country of origin, would be exposed to the suffering of serious injustice. In particular, I would like to stress that intensive and constructive co-operation with all state bodies that play their part in the implementation of the law, as well as international and humanitarian organisations providing assistance to asylum seekers, refugees and displaced persons, representatives of the professional public, NGOs, who have contributed to the definition of these solutions. As far as the proposal for a law on border control is concerned, the Republic of Serbia has been a crossroads of various streams of multicultural, multinational, religious, civilizational. A significant element in preserving our internal security is an efficient border management system, based on an integrated border management concept that the Republic of Serbia has accepted as a widely accepted model for effective border management. The authorities of the integrated border management system shall take measures and activities to implement joint border management in accordance with applicable laws, strategies and other acts. Within the framework of this system, the MUP as the authority of the state administration responsible for the security of the state border and the control of its crossing, shall monitor the state border, border checks and risk analysis of the threat and security of borders. The adoption of this law, together with the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners and the Proposal for a Law on Asylum and Temporary Protection, which we have prepared, will create conditions for improving the fight, above all, cross-border crime, protecting the public order and achieving a high degree of security of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of those laws provides for one of the key chapters for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU – Chapter 24. This represents a significant segment to improve the security of our borders and to adopt seriously high standards that exist in countries that are more developed than ours. This law regulates further border control, police powers of border police, issues related to the state border and border line, marking, or marking the border line and state border, crossing the state border and border crossings, border inspection, basic and detailed, arms transfer and ammunition across the state border, border police operations outside the border crossing area, international border police co-operation, as well as co-operation between state authorities and the integrated border management system. The main challenges facing state authorities, located in the area of the border, are the need and the definition of clear competences for planning, building or modernising border crossings, as well as the organisation of operations related to the normal functioning of border crossings. As a result, the provisions of this Bill of Law set out in the field of border crossing management are established as the competences of the Republic Property Directorate, i.e. building, equipment, ongoing investment maintenance of border crossings, i.e. the State Authority responsible for the management and availability of matters in public property in the Republic of Serbia. The significant paper adopted by this Bill also constitutes a legal basis for establishing a border control information system, in terms of more effective border control, easier movement of persons and goods across the state border, while at the same time enabling more effective border checks and national border security in the fight against cross-border crime and regular migration. As regards the draft law on the records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, this is certainly a necessary condition in accordance with the standards of modern police conduct, therefore, adequate standardising the processing of personal data of citizens. The Ministry of the Interior performs the tasks of established competence to process the data on the personality of all citizens, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the foreigners, as well as what the handler of the largest number, where we, as the Ministry, are the handler of the largest number of databases and records containing personality data in the Republic of Serbia. The reason for the adoption of the proposed law is also the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has and which it has made before international institutions, which it has committed to comply with its legislation with binding European law, in this case in the area of protection of personal data and with certain specificities relating to the security sector. The majority of the proposed law refers to the contents of all records of the Ministry of the Interior in which the identity data are listed. The content of each of these records shall have the intended time limit for data storage, after which the data flow is deleted by official duty. The proposed legal solutions provide for the protection of personal data processed in the Ministry’s records, i.e. technical, personnel and organisational measures of data protection, which are automatically processed, according to the standards adopted and proportionate risks arising from the processing and nature of data protected. Security measures have also been prescribed to protect data against illegal destruction or loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access in the case of data processing carried out using information and communication technologies. As regards the proposal for a law on national DNA register, the adoption of the proposed law on national DNA register provides for the establishment of a national DNA register for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings and lighting up criminal offences, establishing the identity of missing or unknown persons and corpses and body parts. The establishment of a single national DNA register is an obligation that stems from the obligations we have made in terms of European integration, but much more important than that is an obligation, or something that we owe to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of more effective criminal conduct and easier identification of all people who may be missing and that their body parts have been found in the meantime. The identification of persons based on artificial DNA is considered to be the most efficient identification technique of the person, or suspects, based on the biological material left at the scene of the crime and is irreplaceable in the lighting and proof of violent crimes. As there are no two people with the same fingerprint, so there are no two people with the same genetic profile, except in the case of identical twins. The method is absolutely reliable in the elimination of innocent persons and very safe in the positive identification of the perpetrators. By introducing a criminalistic practice of electronic databases of registered and unknown perpetrators of criminal offences, the possibility of connecting one person with the execution of a number of crimes has been increased multiplely and, of course, the Republic of Serbia has used in previous years, which has helped to shed light on a number of crimes from the past. According to the current legal framework, the authority of the proceedings, i.e. the court or the prosecution, may give an order for DNA skills, both to the state authority and to other institutions, legal and physical persons performing DNA skills for the purposes of criminal proceedings. In that sense, so far DNA tests have been carried out and their results have not been grouped and systematized in one place. Also, there were cases that the results of the DNA analysis were unreliable or incorrect, resulting from the application of different standards during work. Such mistakes require a repeat of certain DNA skills, thus increasing costs and less reliability in obtaining evidence in criminal proceedings. The systematization of DNA data, the legally prescribed process of obtaining and storing these data in one place, as well as the control of processing by the competent national authority, will lead to the resolution of these problems that we have already noticed. On the other hand, the second function of the national DNA registry is the international exchange of DNA profiles for the same purpose, lighting up crimes and punishing the perpetrator of crimes, with the aim of curbing all forms of crime. It is important to mention that the international DNA exchange takes place through protected channels of communication between competent contacts between points and international organisations, Interpol, Europol, etc. Illustratively, within the DNA of the Ministry of the Interior, in 2016 the number of completed items containing DNA art was 530, and in 2017 there were already over 1,000 undeniable DNA samples for the identification of DNA profiles. Therefore, the improvement of such a methodology of work is shown to lead to a significant increase in the number of greater detection of criminal offences and the provision of more quality evidence in criminal proceedings before the court. We also have before us a bill on the single number of citizens. This law was passed in 1978 and for the first time introduced the home number as a unique and unrepeated individual identification mark for citizens. The long-term application of the applicable law has not been followed by a change in appropriate technical options, which in a number of cases led to errors, such as the determination of double or logically invalid parent numbers. Also, citizens who came from former SFRY republics often had no evidence of a particular unique birth number and were assigned a home number by place of registered residence in the Republic of Serbia. The same persons later delivered copies of the birth certificate from foreign authorities, with a registered home number set out in the republics of the former SFRY, leading to double entries of the person and different home numbers in electronic records. Therefore, when a home number is entered in the birth certificate in one of the former republics of the SFRY, by the competent national authority, there is already a certain home number, the competent authority of the management of the parent books is obliged to enter the parent number determined by the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia. You've seen what that could have done to trouble. We have also provided the legal continuity of the identity of persons who have a birth number in the former republics of the SFRY, and we also prevent the Republic of Serbia from having two or more parent numbers specified in the former republics of the SFRY. The adoption of this law will allow full implementation of projects aimed at facilitating administrative procedures and burdens and enable citizens to exercise their rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As for the draft law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, these supplements aim to help solve two groups of problems facing citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First, the bill simplifies and shortens the administrative procedures that citizens face in the exercise of their rights before the authorities of the state administration, while the second group of provisions refers to a narrow circle of citizens who, due to the specificities of social and personal circumstances, have found themselves in a situation that their acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is disproportionately difficult, although this is a country in which they live for a longer period of time. The proposed solutions are part of the activities the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to reduce administrative burdens and constitute a basis for a more efficient state administration in terms of using personality data. Citizens will no longer have to walk from the institution to the institution, from the counter to the counter, but will be able to obtain, in fact, all the information they need to enter these records in one place. Also, preparing these provisions will allow citizens to obtain confidence in citizenship anywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of where they are listed in the citizens' records, which is the result long-awaited. In addition, there was a need for other issues to be brought into line with the changes in force in the Law on Citizenship. Accordingly, according to the amendments and additions to the 2011 ID Act, the deadline for validity of the old form was 31 December 2016. In the process of replacing ID cards, it was found that a number of citizens, who spent their whole life in the Republic of Serbia, had a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and had no opportunity to obtain citizenship under reduced conditions of the Republic of Serbia, by bringing a warrant for entry into the register of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is mainly about older citizens who felt that they did not need to apply for the issue of a biometric ID card, and because of the possession of permanent cards. However, since the condition for issuing a biometric ID card is the possession of our country's citizenship, these citizens have not applied in due time for citizenship under reduced conditions and are forced to initiate a regular procedure for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Given that it is citizens who have been living in our country for decades, that they have had a registered residence, that ID cards have been issued to them in the Republic of Serbia, and that it is mainly about our oldest citizens, older widows, widows who have not even lived in the former republics of the SFRY from whose nationality they should seek forgiveness, we believe it is justified to allow them to obtain citizenship under reduced conditions, and these procedures are reduced to an absolute minimum and it is easier for these people to exercise their rights in the territory of our country. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on Roads. So this is a long-awaited law and we've been working with a group of experts, so both in our country and abroad, working on it for a long time. In addition, of course, we have brought it into line with all the best standards that exist in more developed countries than our own, and we wanted to remove all the shortcomings that the previous Traffic Safety Act had on the roads. The previous law also contributed to improving the situation in traffic security and contributed to the preservation of life. We wanted to reduce tolerance, what are the most important provisions, to the amount of alcohol in the driver's fault from 0.3 to two proms. The sanctions for overspeed have been increased to a greater extent and the penalty for non-binding belts has been doubled. Also, there are stricter penalties for violent driving, crossing the column across a full line, two or more passages on a light traffic sign on which the passage is prohibited in less than 10 minutes. Speed overruns of more than 90 kilometers per hour in a settlement or for more than 100 kilometers per hour outside the settlement, as well as a ride with more than two alcohol spills in the blood for which a prison is scheduled from 30 to 60 days or a public-interest sentence of 240 to 360 hours, 14 to 16 criminal points and nine months of ban on driving a motor vehicle. The increased responsibility of the driver who transports children is one of the priorities in road traffic, so it is the intention that young people can only be transported in the appropriate safety seat, i.e. on the seat-seater depending on age and height. In such a way, we have classified it even for those vehicles where there is no mandatory presence of safety belts, or safety belts, which made it impossible to use these coasters, and, let me say, the lives, first of all, were threatened. For vulnerable categories of young and inexperienced drivers, the conditions under which they can access the driver's license and the conditions regarding the vehicles they can manage are strengthened. Only vehicles of engine power up to 80 kilowatts, which was the subject of a long-term analysis with different factors, i.e. different institutions that gave us different proposals, until, according to the expert's assessment, they gained some maturity and experience in self-managing of other vehicle categories. For these drivers, zero tolerance for alcohol and phone calls is foreseen during driving, even when their hands are free. Therefore, a ban on driving between 23 and zero six hours and can carry a maximum of three persons, including persons under whose supervision they drive. In order to influence the increase in legal certainty and the quality of driver training, new control measures shall be introduced for subjects involved in training candidates through a unique information system through which all data relating to candidate training will be merged, combined with audio and video of the passing of exams that will be part of the system mentioned. In this way, it is necessary to prevent the manipulative behavior of any participant in training, that the results achieved during the training are clearly visible and measurable, and that a good driver, therefore, is a quality driver that we have achieved together. Similarly, it wants to be achieved with newspapers in the field of technical examination of the vehicle. As important as it is for the driver to be capable and high-quality, it is also important to keep the vehicle safe for traffic. The relevant provisions were not sufficient to prevent manipulative behaviour in this area, so it is envisaged that video surveillance should be established when performing a technical examination which will be linked to the MUP by a specific programme. In particular, conditions are prescribed that need to be met by technical review controllers, their number, working status, their training, but also incompatible jobs, therefore, they cannot be engaged in maintenance, repair, insurance and vehicle registration during their working hours. With regard to criminal policy in the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act, account was taken of a reasonable measure, so that sanctions were increased where the result was missing according to the applicable criminal bases. For certain violations, they've been reduced. Let's just say, for a stop-bar ride, we've thrown out of all administrative, for the expiry of the driver's license for more than six months, we've ruled out the confiscation of the penalty points, because we believe that these are administrative failures that the driver can potentially make and have nothing to do with their driving skills and abilities. Also, if the owner doesn't report lost plates. As long as certain actions are no longer considered a violation - the threatening of bicycles, working machines, tractors, multicultural vehicles, or a bulky vehicle, under conditions that are naturally prescribed by law, because we have noticed that during the summer months this creates columns that then further affect the safety of roads. Given that the preparation of this bill has lasted almost three years, we believe that these solutions are a reflection of a fundamental analysis which, of course, all experts in our country have been able to check on several occasions, but we also believe that this is a matter that is alive and which will change in the future, and in this sense, welcome every suggestion of the MPs to create a potential new traffic safety law, because our ultimate goal is to ensure that the security of all citizens of our country is maximum protection. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Police, I would first of all like to refer to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, since the 2016 law introduces important newspapers that have contributed to the reform direction further develops in the police and improves the work of police officers and improves the quality of police operations, as well as other jobs from the interior ministry's work. The new legislative solutions imposed the need to specify existing solutions in the law, which would remove certain shortcomings identified in the previous application in terms of improving and further improving the quality work of police officers. The law introduces a platform for safe electronic communications, data exchange and information between state authorities and institutions, which will improve the work of police officers and police co-operation with other state bodies, special organisational units of state authorities and institutions with the aim of preventing organised crime and other forms of serious crime, which is the basis for the establishment of a national criminal and intelligence system. The precise work done in the MUP and police affairs contributes to their greater transparency, but also to the information of citizens, i.e. the general public about what all important tasks are carried out by the ministry employees, so that daily life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia functions normally and safely. The breakdown of the provisions governing security checks contributes to strengthening the confidence of citizens in police work, in particular by defining the facts that represent a security disturbance, given that the security disturbance contained is first introduced into the legal system, i.e. the national legislation of the Republic of Serbia, which in certain ways represents a precedent in our law, especially given that the conduct of security checks covers a very important domain of the ministry's work, as well as other security services in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to stress that this bill sets out provisions relating to the preventive measures of the internal control sector by developing existing instruments in order to combat corruption in the ministry, and by detailing the existing ability to record police officers' actions in terms of audio and video recording of their actions and thus improving the role of this sector to detect illegality and irregularities in the work of police officers and other employees in the ministry. A detailed discussion of the provisions on the Solidarity Fund with the assistance of determining the categories of persons who can exercise the rights to this assistance, as well as in the case in which it can be granted, emphasises the Ministry's support and concern for its employees, or members of the family of employees, especially those who gave their lives for the security of the Republic of Serbia while they were workers of the MUP. It is not necessary to stress specifically the specificities of police work as a service, nor the high risk of police work being carried out. The period behind us is the different challenges that have been put before our police officers, to whom they have willingly and sacrificedly responded daily by bringing themselves into direct life and health dangers. Certain jobs at the Ministry after the completion of certain years of life cannot be carried out in the manner and by the standards required for this professional activity. I especially mean the jobs performed by the members of the special and special units of the police. Respecting these specificities of business as an exceptional contribution that police officers in these businesses have made to the preservation of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in all previous years, fulfilling all the tasks that the Republic of Serbia has put before them, we have put as a proposal in this law the possibility of their early retirement under conditions different from the general regime. This provision is a temporal character with a expiry date by the end of next year. At the same time, this creates conditions for rejuvenating these special units and maintaining the quality levels of their work. Finally, to add that the provisions of this bill contribute to the preservation and improvement of the working capacity of members of the Ministry. The implementation of more demanding police services has been put in the context of raising certain standards in their performance, but also the context of the ministry's social dimension, which is constantly trying to create such an environment and conditions that will contribute to the successful and quality performance of police affairs. As far as the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace is concerned, you know that we have tried to pay particular attention to this area, paying particular attention to, let me say, exceptional attention to quality and comprehensive regulation through the current Law on Public Order and Peace. Modern changes, which are being considered today, relate to violations of public order and peace committed by the burning of various types of pyrotechnic products, by firing fire or other weapons or by imitation of weapons. Modern technology in the production of pyrotechnics and weapons imitations can lead to significant disturbance of citizens and disturbances of public order and peace, as it is products with improved environmental effects, increased noise levels and the possibility of harming the citizens present. Following the situation in this area, we have seen a certain degree of increase in social danger due to the traditional use of modern pyrotechnic products and weapons, such as the imitation of weapons when marking the ceremony and other celebrations. Although there are a number of other ways to increase the ceremony without thus jeopardizing the security of the person, a number of our citizens who are not responsible continue to reach out for the use of these dangerous products. That is why we have decided to tighten the criminal policy for these violations, in order to ensure a maximum degree of security in the future, especially the youngest citizens who, unfortunately in the previous years, have had severe consequences for their health, you have had photographs of blown extremities, severe eye injuries, severe injuries to the body, therefore, all those who are irresponsible, thinking that this is almost harmless, used various pyrotechnic means. Article 17. The Law on Public Order and Peace has been attributed to the criminal liability of a person who, by burning a pyrotechnic article, as well as by firing firearms or other weapons imitations, violates public order and peace, and for the execution of these offences, are prescribed various sanctions – fines, fines of work in the public interest, but also a prison sentence. In order to achieve maximum control of this unwanted conduct, the bill provides for its stricter punishment. We believe that the increase in the amount of penalties threatened with simultaneous activity in the repression of this type of offence will directly contribute to the repression of this phenomenon, thereby ensuring a greater level of security and security for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, I hope you will support the laws that lie ahead of you, and in addition to the laws that I have proposed, which we have presented to the National Assembly in today's agenda, there are also proposals for legislation on the validation of international agreements in the field of internal affairs. So I don't read everything, the text of this law, you can look at everything. It is mainly about agreements between Serbia and the countries that are listed here, which are in fact meant to contribute to greater security of citizens due to the reduction of the number of crimes in the area of terrorism, organised and serious crime, as well as criminal acts related to intoxicating drugs, exchanges of information between our ministry and the representative ministries of these countries, but of course also improving communication in the area of emergency situations, enabling faster and more effective action, both the Ministry of Emergency of the Republic of Serbia and communication with the EU civilian mechanism, but also others, through bilateral co-operation in these countries, other mechanisms available to protect the lives of citizens. Also, the question of obtaining driver licenses and mutual recognition of driving licences with countries where we have noticed that there are more of our citizens will facilitate, especially those who have residence in those countries, will also facilitate professional drivers, but of course those who are in the process of performing a profession important management of motor vehicles. It will also allow a clearer procedure for training law enforcement bodies and strengthening co-operation with CEPOL, i.e. through the participation of officials of law enforcement authorities of the Republic of Serbia in different trainings, as well as the participation of officials of EU law enforcement officers working in the fields of justice and home affairs, training organised by the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. Confirmation of these bilateral agreements will also affect the improvement and achievement of co-operation of stronger friendly relations with countries representing the other side of those agreements. Thank you for your opportunity to present these laws. I hope the National Assembly in voting day supports the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28988	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's sad to get this little time for such impressive legal texts. I say impressive about the number of pages of material we've received and simply can't talk about everything you'd like to talk about, but that's why I'm going to narrow down my exposure to the most basic remarks. First of all, as far as the Police Act is concerned, I think we have some newspapers in it that are quite significant, such as the integrity test and the implementation of the risk analysis of corruption, and the verification of the applications and changes in the property situation of employees. I am keenly interested in how this will be implemented, especially this integrity test, and what people will carry out, with which qualifications and what will be the consequence of this implementation. Of course, it would be ideal for all of this to be done in this way as indicated here, but I honestly doubt it is possible to implement it, at least in the next few years, and I think we're going to be facing the problems of misapplication of this member of the law. What do we need now? We have two ministries of force - the Ministry of the Army and the Ministry of Police. They can certainly play a fatal role in the coming years after the survival of the state. You remember October 5th, we were bought by Americans by almost all police generals, literally bought for money, some on the very day of October 5th even, were millions of amounts. In order to prevent that, we must really have police who will exude with the spirit of patriotism, who will be unwavering and unsuspecting, the police who will be loyal to the people and to the state. As this is achieved, no country in the world has fully mastered the method of achievement, but it should be done. First of all, we need to improve the social status of both the police and the military. We need to get their pay grade in. This signing of collective agreements, police and military unions, in my opinion, is bullshit. I was amazed when I heard there was a military union despite the police force. This is simply the case with authorities applying direct physical violence in accordance with the law is unsustainable. This is what the EU is asking of you, and you are bowing to the EU even though you are aware that its intentions are not pure. So, it's urgent to introduce payment classes to the police and then that every cop knows what pay grade belongs to, that it depends on both the position and the rank. Police should regularly provide uniforms, care should be taken of their other social needs such as housing, that is necessary for the military, and that is the exception to the rest of the state administration, except for customs officers who need it, because both services and tasks must move from one part of Serbia to another. If we have a solid materially-situated police officer, then he will commit himself to maintaining order and peace, protecting order and fighting crime. If we have a man who barely makes ends meet, he's more inclined to be bribed and get into some business like private protection of criminals, bribery in certain cases, etc. I'm very interested in seeing the first results of that integrity test. The other thing I'd be talking about is police acts. Our country has repeatedly hesitated over the introduction of military acts into the police force. We have the experience of the Book and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In the communist period, right after World War II, the police had the same acts as the military, so it was abolished in the '60s. The rank was consistent with the rank of a police officer and in the 1990s, the Socialist Authority returned acts that were entirely appropriate to military acts. This has led to some problems in practice. We must not forget that military acts are harder to come by than police acts, so here we should intervene a little in this Article 166. It's okay when you say it with the Soviets, junior police sergeant, police sergeant, first-class police sergeant. There are now fewer acts here. They're all three sub-offices. We also have a post with the VSS police officer, First-class First-class police officer and a deputy police officer. Come on, somehow it can, but we need to divide these categories from lieutenants to police generals. Lieutenant Police, the captain must have VSS. The police major needs a master's degree or a serious specialist study, not the one of three months, of six months, but a serious specialist study. That applies to the colonel and the colonel of the police. With the police general, things are different. The General Police must be a doctor of science or must graduate from war school. As for the majors, colonels and colonels, it is considered that with this master's study or special specialist training they achieve what is achieved at the Command and Staff Academy in the military. The military school could receive in every generation one, two or three of the most prominent candidates from the police to cross that direction of the war school regarding security. Of course, that doesn't mean that we're taking someone's rank now, that the spells we've acquired remain, but the question of the general act has to be sharpened. I personally don't know how many generals there are now in the police force, but there were too many. There's three of them now. I wouldn't take any rank, but in all the following cases, this question has to be sharpened. So, in order to have an army compatible with the state of police, or vice versa, compatible in this regard with the situation in the military, because beware, we may have a case once again to use the police in a way that uses armed forces, not only in a way that requires a classic fight against crime and the preservation of public order and peace, we will be able to use special units of police as an army and even regular police officers. So they need to create conditions to be as satisfied as possible in the current economic crisis, their social situation, that their children are not hungry, because tomorrow they will be able to sacrifice their lives. We must not put them in a position to wonder why and for whom to sacrifice their lives. That's what's very important in this case, and that's where the state needs to be aged in a timely manner. Since you won't let me talk about all these legal projects that are very inspiring for a longer debate, I'll limit myself to a few more. We have here a law supplementing the Law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. This is one question to which the Government has not given proper attention so far and in practice we have a lot of problems. I see you're not inclined to solve these problems yet. We have many mixed Serbian-Russian marriages. From Russia come young men and girls and marry our citizens. Many of them have not yet acquired our citizenship even though they have produced children in these marriages. I think the Law on Citizenship should be fixed so that anyone who spends two, three years in that marriage, especially one who gets a child, has the right to citizenship. A child and a father, or a Russian mother. We have cases in many villages in Serbia that are half-breeding that our young men are already in the advanced age of Albanian women. These Albanians are struggling with getting citizenship. It happens that her husband dies or dies, the Albanian girl stays with two, three children, and she can't get citizenship. We've watched some of the TVs in these cases. All those Albanian women who came to Serbia proved to be safe wives and good mothers and good housewives. We are interested in the fact that there is still good will in Albania, especially from the north of Albania, which are practically of Serbian origin forced, assimilated to be Albanians and who want to come to Serbia, come, get married and recognise their citizenship with their first child. She's got quite a number of Chinese girls. Strangely, the Chinese are a rare case when it comes to men, but there are Chinese women who marry our citizens and these marriages are a success. They should also be facilitated by obtaining Serbian citizenship because these Chinese women, married to Serbs, have also proved to be loyal wives, good mothers and housewives. This is urgent, this needs to be resolved as soon as possible, because these people are facing a whole series of problems because of unregulated citizenship regarding their social, professional position, etc. We protect these asylum seekers who come from distant countries, who run away from defending their country and giving them... (Marian Risticevic: The Albanian story.) What you have now triumphed in these elections does not mean that you will be at the next one. You see on the socialist case that it's possible who's up there right now very quickly to be down there. They're giving me something extra, so I had to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28990	All right, just keep going. I ask the People's MPs for peace to listen to Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28991	I don't have to convince you how unsuspecting that was. (Zarko Obradovic:...) This example. What example? (Zarko Obradovic: This one that...) ( b) Is this an incomparable example? And, uh, lucky for you, Dacic was decorated, otherwise we'd have even less. (Zarko Obradovic: Let, let, and this is enough compared to what you have achieved. All right, well, you'll get there soon. Let me start by saying what I have, if I have time for the Asylum and Temporary Protection Act. You've been really generous here, and you've been doing this again to please the EU, not to bring it into line with the interests of our people and our country. That's why this bill is to be rejected. What did you predict here, that the asylum seekers had? First, if he illegally enters our country and applies for asylum, you release him immediately. It's still a violation, right? It's not a crime yet? These beautiful girls could help me because I've been on the road for a long time, so I didn't follow everything. No, they're getting ready to beat me. So he writes in two sentences "I am seeking asylum" and was immediately released from prosecution. You're very good at protecting our state borders. The asylum seeker has the right to stay and freedom of movement in the Republic of Serbia. Why? With what background check? You've introduced a whole series of security checks here for those who are employees of the police, so they need to advance in the service, and even the neighbors to ask what kind of person it is, which is a bit degutant. And here, it's enough for someone to claim asylum and can walk all over Serbia. Then he has the right to material conditions appropriate, this must come down to a minimum. So, to determine one or two barracks that are not used now, I guess we still have extra barracks, so put them in a cashier's accommodation and inform the UN, so let the UN, or this section that deals with refugees, take care of them first and foremost, of the material conditions of accommodation. He's also entitled to social aid. Instead of saying that he has the right to health care in emergency cases, if they are severe diseases, if it is a heart attack, if it is a car accident, they have the right to all forms of health care. So they also have the right to fix their teeth at the expense of our Health Insurance Fund. They have the right to both primary and secondary education, while waiting for the state to decide on their asylum application. Come on, well, freedom of religion, but we are not going to let those whose faiths are not spread in Serbia build temples because they have freedom of religion, because they come from areas of very diverse religious direction. Access to the labour market. How many unemployed in Serbia? Although you artificially reduced that figure, removing from it all those who did not register neatly and in time to restore the jobless status, there you were very fast. Asylum seekers have access to the labour market and equal to being with our citizens. And now you see, when the right to asylum is granted, what they have is a stay. Where's the stay? A place to stay. Where's the accommodation? Will you provide them with apartments? Well, you can also apartments, here, in this tower in "Belgrade on Water" you could share a number of apartments with asylum seekers. Freedom of movement. Come on, you can free movement if you've got asylum. But for what reason is asylum granted? Look, first of all, those who do not want to fight for their country come to us, instead of joining the army, if they are from Syria or Iraq, to fight against the Islamic state, it is easy for them to lift anchor and go where there is bread and no cake. Nenad Canak: No distraction. Without a distraction, you're right, one time in your life that I have to tell you that you're right, Chanak. Where there's bread without a lure. Here, it's Canak. It happened to him once by accident. Not to you yet. Not to me yet, good. So instead of fighting for freedom of Syria, he leaves Syria and comes here. He could have a bull tail ripped out, but he's not going to be a part of the war. If he does not participate in the war for his country, he will not participate in the war for Serbia tomorrow and there is even the danger of participating, but on the side of those who are against Serbia, who are attacking Serbia. Now both Syria and Iraq are almost freed from the Islamic state and it is time for them to return to build their country, to repair their ruins, and also to fight the Taliban in Afghanistan, if they want to live in a more free country, in some form of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28992	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28993	Am I done yet? I have a few more things to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28994	If you can just in one minute, since you've been distracted, that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28995	You were skilled enough to stop me. I was thinking about each of these laws one sentence at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28996	Here, the minister wants to answer you, then there'll be opportunities. Thank you. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28997	Thank you. As for the Police Act, first of all, I want to say, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the police and I have met many of these people in the last four years, these are sincere patriots, people who are loyal to most of the Republic of Serbia, loyal to their citizens. As for what you said, I agree. We have also foreseen a different evaluation of their rank and position through this law. In the next 30 days, we will complete the payment order, which when they enter, just as you have suggested, so what we have predicted by law in the same way, will be defined by their status and rank and title and position. As far as social status is concerned, we have succeeded, thanks to the increases that police officers received, that by an average of 6.1% of their salaries are higher than the pre-paid period today, therefore, for all police jobs, for all police officers who work, as well as other members of the ministry who do not work on police jobs. As far as their social status is concerned, the government plan of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia is under way to build apartments that will be obtained by members of the Security Service, and this is very important for members of the police who did not have as many opportunities in the previous period as members of the Army to reach housing units, and I hope that this will greatly relax their social situation, according to very favourable conditions, so at very favourable prices they will succeed at different parts of the Republic of Serbia to provide themselves with housing. First of all, this is a problem in Belgrade for police members and it will be in very decent locations, so that people from the police would really be treated as people who make a big contribution to the security of the Republic of Serbia and in this sense risk their lives. As far as their rank and position are concerned, their rank is in line with the Law on Higher Education, that is, the conditions and ways of gaining their rank. I've given the wrong information, four generals are all in the Ministry of the Interior. We had a problem a few years ago that a very high number of police officers, first of all the police colonels, were present without the need for such a composition of the ministry, and that de facto affected the fact that we have many executives, and then very few executives on the ground who need to do these jobs. It's not something that benefits the Republic of Serbia. That is why we introduced a different system of career advancement through a law that was defined in 2016, as well as a set of sublegal acts, and thus defined who, on the principle of what specific conditions are in terms of education, in terms of acquiring certain skills and knowledge, the length of internships and all that it takes to get someone into the next act. As for what you said about citizenship, we currently have a regulation that says – that someone would exercise the right to apply for our citizenship, must spend at least three years in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then they gain the right to permanent residence, and when they acquire the right to permanent residence, they also have the right to claim citizenship. What it is is our obligation to speed up these processes. So, I agree that the processes in the decision-making of the state authorities may not be fast enough and it must be accelerated because we do not have the need at all to detain these people, especially when it comes to the fact that marriage partners, when they have children, therefore, have no need at all not to grant them citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, when it is more than clear that it is someone who wants to truly be a citizen of our country. As for asylum seekers, i.e. migrants, refugees, different categories, we also have regulations, or Geneva Convention, which prescribes the principle of impunity. We are trying to ensure that all those who enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia and express their intention to seek asylum, do not punish, precisely for the reason that through the operational procedures prescribed, we first determine whether they are persons from war-related areas, whether those persons had any involvement in the war-related areas, that we try to provide as much information as possible to determine whether those persons are ever fulfilling any conditions to achieve asylum in our country. Although most of them don't want asylum in our country at all. They want to get out of our country and go west and that's how it happens. Today, there are no more than 3600 migrants in Serbia's territory, located in several camps. We went to politics, a smaller number of migrants in more camps, for better control and security, so that we wouldn't have like in some countries, the whole black stock market that formed in these camps, of course, prostitution and everything else that was for all the other crimes that came out of it. Of course, human trafficking, possible. I think that we have succeeded in the past three years by serious work and by the police and other state bodies involved, we preserve public order and peace and protect the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which was, indeed, our priority. We will try to move forward with a policy that will do everything for Serbia's security, and in fact, ensure, given that the current regulation ensures that we provide accommodation and protection for someone who enters our country for a year, that after that year, he must provide himself with the conditions of accommodation and financing, if they manage to manage, or, of course, if asylum is not refused, then, of course, they are returned or tried to return them to their countries of origin. It's not going easy, I don't want to tell anyone it's an easy process. Many of these countries don't even want to accept their citizens back, and we don't have so many financial conditions that, although it's even disputable, would we succeed if we put them on planes and sent them back, there were cases that they were in other countries, much more powerful than us, that these countries of origin, had actually refused to accept that the plane landed on their territory, carrying their citizens. Which was, like this, a complete paradox. At this point, there is no significant number of migrants entering our country. We'll follow how it's going to go during spring and summer, that's the thing that can change, that's what we're supposed to take care of, but we're going to try to change that stuff. As far as employment is concerned, we've been doing downsizing by opening factories. We open a factory in Obrenovac, employ eight hundred people and reduce 800 unemployed, Johnson Electric, Svarovski, Jinsi. We did it over the previous four years in all Serbia, and thus effectively reduces the number of unemployed. In the previous year of 2017, we received slightly less than 500 graduate students of the Criminal and Police Academy and about 450 students of the Centre for Fundamental Police Training at the MUP, and these young people who trained for this were also given the opportunity to work at the MUP. I think we have thus increased the security of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28998	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Seselj, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u28999	I'm about to have those two minutes. You know the ministers that there is a UN Convention on Asylum, and under this Convention, Serbia is obliged to accept only those who come from neighbouring countries as asylum seekers. So, who come to Serbia directly from the country they lived in. These can therefore be people from Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Albania. I can't get over the language, Montenegrin independence and Bosnian independence, I can't get over it, Canak, but it looks easier on you. Okay, it doesn't matter. So we owe them if they meet the conditions to give asylum. Those who come through Greece, via Turkey, through Macedonia, through Bulgaria, are not obliged to give asylum, in no way. It's to treat them like refugees and hand them over to the UN as soon as possible. And when they come to our country's territory, the UN's Commissioner for Refugees takes care of them. One thing to remind you, France provides asylum only 4% of applicants get that right, 96% refuses. As of now, we want to be ahead of the EU. We're courting someone. We want to take all the refugees, and we can't, people, there's nowhere to go. There are already serious incidents with refugees. They've already suffered locals where their concentration is higher, and we haven't blamed their refugee for anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29000	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond, SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29001	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the Members of the SVM, to present our views on the draft laws on the agenda. The subject which links a set of draft laws on foreigners, asylum and temporary protection, on a unique home number of citizens, on amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace, on amendments to the Law on Citizenship, as well as amendments to the Law on Police and the Law on the Safety of Traffic on the Roads is exactly protection, improving human security. The reasons for the adoption of these laws are the excessive harmonisation of the area of personal security and security of the whole of society with European standards and the EU body of legal fluids, and others, not an important reason, is the harmonisation of certain areas not only with the 2006 Serbian Constitution, but also with reality. For example, the applicable Law on the Single Origin Number of Citizens was passed 40 years ago in 1978. In the past decades, much has changed, so a number of countries have abolished JMBG and introduced a personal identification number or have been used simultaneously in some countries of JMBG and a personal identification number. For SVM MPs, it is important that the draft laws drawn up by the MIP follow-up and remarks by the European Commission in the realisation of Chapter 24 – law, freedom and security. The reason SVM MPs will support this set of laws is the fact that by introducing standards and harmonising with EU legal assets in this area, the security of Serbia's citizens will be greater, the rule of law and the rule of law will be protected, and Serbia will become part of a truly large system that solves all challenges by exchanging information and close co-operation with EU member states. Now I'm going to try to isolate, for the most important details of the proposed laws. The SVM MPs will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act because it is part of our multi-annual efforts. In fact, Mr. Minister, as early as 2014, he asked a parliamentary question and we advocated that amendments to the Transport Safety Act solve the big problem of our farmers, and this is a question of mandatory registration of connected agricultural machines which are not able to meet the conditions of registration in a factory. The resolution of this problem is also stated in the coalition agreement SVM and SNS and it is extremely good that we will fulfill this promise made to farmers by changing the law. By the way, this has always been a theme in the field, in various stands. Thousands of signatures were also brought in at the Ministry of Agriculture, which were requested by agricultural producers to amend the law, i.e. to join machines that are not able to register the exemption from registration. They're presses, they're big sprinklers, they can't fill in and they can't pass the technical exam. The problem was that these machines could not pass the technical examination because they simply failed to meet some criteria, such as no brakes, no signalling. It is about connected machinery dealing with agricultural land, exclusively agricultural land, and they are not registered anywhere in the EU. The second part of the problem we solved earlier, it was the registration of those machines in agriculture that had no origin, or farmers had no bills from 30, 40 years ago on purchase, by the end of 2015 anyone could register those vehicles for which they had no adequate documentation. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act on roadways is prescribed not to have to register tractor-connector vehicles intended to carry out the work. It's a huge success for us. The important news is that regular six-month technical examinations are not subject to tractors, tractor vehicles, working machines and motocultivators, only the annual technical review remains. Also for working machinery, registration stickers shall be issued in permanent validity. All of this will bring savings, reduce the expenditure on farmers, given that under the applicable law they are subject to an annual and six-month review of the vehicle. The provision is of importance, given that the corresponding data from the 2012 agricultural census in Serbia are listed by nearly 600,000 tractors owned by agricultural producers. Another detail on the Transport Safety Bill, I am obliged to learn to the public that there have been objections to the level of fines for certain violations in the field, but we think it would be good to see the results of the application of the law itself and to see the effects, and then possibly propose that criminal policy be brought into line with reality. The MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Order and Peace, in the part of tightening the fine, powering of pyrotechnic products, first because it is a matter of security, mostly children and young people, but it is also a matter of responsibility and security of the whole society. We are witnessing that uncontrollable sales and mishandling of pyrotechnic means result in the consequences of families and peers, and the consequences of the resolution include health care, police, communal services. Under this proposal for a law on the power of pyrotechnic products, which violates public order and threatens the security of citizens, the fine is increasing from the lower limit of 10,000 dinars to 50,000 dinars so far, and the upper limit from 50,000 dinars to 100,000 dinars. As for shooting from firearms and other weapons or imitation weapons, which violates public order and peace or threatens the security of citizens, the lower limit of fines from 50,000 dinars to 100,000, which, of course, we support. The MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians welcome the fact that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Police, did not amend the provisions of the applicable law, namely in January 2016, the amendment of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, to take into account the national composition of the population, the proper representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of language and letter, which is officially used in the territory of the unit of local self-government for which the person is founded by a working relationship in order to achieve full equality between members of the national minority and citizens belonging to the majority. I use this opportunity to point out that sometimes it's not easy to translate legal provisions into reality. So in August of last year, we witnessed the fact that a competition was called for a hundred firefighters in 46 municipalities in Serbia, including Novi Sad, Senta, Sečanj, Žitište, Čoka, Novi Knezevic, Ada, Kanjiža, Bačka Topola, Bac, Kovačica, etc. Since an integral part of the applicable Police Act is the amendment of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, which concerns specific conditions for the establishment of a working relationship, that only individual jobs established by the Systemisation Act can be prescribed that the person who is based on the working relationship in the MUP has exclusive citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing that after 17 working weeks, how long the multiannual verification and training took, significantly already the number of future firefighters, members of the national minorities have filled out the lines of fire brigades throughout Serbia. On the occasion of this question, we have been in contact with the representatives of the MUP, with State Secretary Mr Milickovic, and we ourselves within our community have worked to get as many young and capable people as possible to participate in these competitions. The cooperation on this matter was excellent. Mr. Minister, thank you for your openness. I'm sure that in this competition for firefighters, more members of national minorities have been admitted than the previous 20 years in total. A few days ago, another important competition was completed. The interior ministry launched a contest on January 26th for the entry of 400 participants into the Centre for Fundamental Training of Police at Sremska Kamenica for the needs of police administration for the City of Belgrade. Also on the same day, a competition for the admission of 250 participants to the Centre for Fundamental Police Training and for the purposes of, among other things, for us very important police administrations in Pancheva, Subotica, Kickindi, Sombor, Zrenjanin and Novi Sada was announced. Mr. Minister, I hope that we will do everything together to ensure that as many members of the national minority as possible successfully compete for police officers. It's extremely important for multiethnic environments. Although MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians support the draft law on the single number of citizens and it is important to pass a law in line with reality after 40 years, but we point to the fact that it is probably time to think about harmonising a single identification number with the EU's international methodology. In fact, international regulations require the protection of citizens' personal data, as well as the introduction of a unique identification number in the identification number, is limited to 12. A large number of institutions handle personal data from citizens, and they are estimated to have created a million databases. The proposal of the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians is to introduce a criminal act of identity theft into criminal law. Also, for SVM MPs, it is of particular importance that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia makes it easier for our old citizens who have failed to replace their ID cards in the law established by 31 December 2016. The procedure replaces permanently valid ID cards with biometric ID cards. The bill stipulates that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a citizen of the other Republic of Serbia, formerly SFRY, or a national of another country created in the territory of the Socialist Federation of the Republic of Yugoslavia, who, on 31 December 2016 and on the day of application, has a registered residence in the Republic of Serbia, in order to enable them to obtain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under reduced conditions. SVM MPs consider the adoption of foreign law, asylum and temporary protection, as well as border control, particularly in the light of the recommendations set out in the European Commission's report on the implementation of the Action Plan for Chapter 24. SVM MPs will support these bill proposals because we believe the proposed solutions will allow the Republic of Serbia to maintain a high level of respect for internationally accepted standards in the field of human rights, while preserving the security of all its citizens. There is no doubt that in the area of migration, Serbia has significantly contributed to the management of migrant inflows, has played an active and constructive role and has been working effectively with neighbouring countries and EU members. As for the migrant crisis, I would remind all of you that in this high House, we of the SVM first pointed out this problem when the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Balint Pastor, two and a half years ago, talked about the need to protect the citizens of Serbia and their property first. Because of that statement, we were then called fascists and not less negative reaction caused the construction of a fence on the border with Hungary, which, you will agree with us, eventually led to the closure of the Balkan route and the fact that the inflow of migrants has been drastically reduced and that they have begun to search for alternative roads and to visit us. We find it extremely important to prevent illegal migration and human trafficking. We also welcome the work of the joint forces of the Serbian Army and police. Therefore, SVM's views have been known and unchanged since the beginning of the migrant crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia should first be the security of citizens. It cannot dispute that the Serbian government is successfully struggling with the global problem as well. Despite the fact that about a million migrants have gone through our territory in the last two and a half years, there has been no serious breach of our citizens' security. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians will insist on that in the future. I also remind you that since the beginning of the migrant reserve crisis, SVM has looked at the establishment of reception centres for migrants in local self-governments, where members of national minorities live in a larger number, as the Constitution prohibits the taking of measures that would result in the artificial change in the national composition of the population. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians is the view that the migrant crisis is one of the biggest challenges for the EU in its history and that it is therefore necessary to define a common European policy and find a single European solution. This is a question that requires a serious and coordinated attitude of all EU members. We think it is necessary for Serbia to participate in talks at all levels to help create regional mechanisms to manage the migrant crisis. In the end, I want to repeat once again that we will support the draft laws on the agenda. We believe that the adoption, or amendment of a set of proposed laws, will certainly improve the issue of preserving and improving human security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29002	Thank you, colleague Fremond. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29003	Thank you. It's quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, that this is a matter of a couple of excellent political issues. So, the law on which we are having a debate right now, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Police Act, represents a fundamental mirror of the state of society, a mirror of state in the state and, on the other hand, a mirror of Serbia's internal arrangement, which imposes itself a series of questions. These questions, given that there are many, will have to be reduced to just a few. The first question I would ask Mr. Minister is a question I asked many years ago, when the Ministry of the Interior was still at the head of Dacic Ivica, and when I asked a clear question – how is it possible that in a secular state where the church is separated from the state, a couple of excellances of a state body such as the Ministry of Interior, it can have a cross of glory, which represents a religious holiday of family among Orthodox Christians? So how is it possible that such a social anomaly is happening, and how is it possible not to react to it? I didn't get the answer. That was three or four governments ago. I didn't get one time when I asked that question, so, here, I'm asking it now. How are we going to resolve that question? That's the question. If the Constitutional Court were to do its job, he would have to deal with it, because it is deeply against the Constitution and deeply against the secular character of the state, as prescribed by this highest legal act. However, around this particular law, I will focus only on two things. We, as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, have submitted 31 amendments, which I hope we will have the opportunity to talk about, but I would like to talk about two things at this point. The first thing is to move the Emergency Sector from the Ministry of the Interior. The reason is very simple. We believe that the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, which was completed in November of the public debate, the Emergency Sector should be removed from the MUP and renamed to the Emergency Reduction and Management Directorate, as it was in September 2015, opening a scientific conference "Crisis and Emergency Management" in Belgrade, said Deputy Chief of the Emergency Sector, Đorđe Babic. The Ministry of Environment is responsible for the issues of regulating preventive action against natural disasters at local level. And it is within the framework of the negotiating Chapter 27 – The environment, recognised as the most responsible for the measures and activities planned and taken from the area of disaster. I am saying this because this law in this segment is extremely tied up and important for Serbia's further European integration, and it is therefore important to stick strictly to such recommendations by the European Commission, so that we can move on without unnecessary marketing, into European integration, which we had a fruitful conversation with the representatives of the MUP a few days ago, at a session of the Committee on European Integration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, since this area is too complex, I am talking about crisis management, and important that it could be achieved in the current form within the MUP, we can talk about the fact that through a smaller organisational unit it participates actively, but not that it does all the work and tasks in the area of emergency situations. In this light, the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, believes that the removal of the Emergency and Emergency Management Sector with national emergency training centre, which would manage professional crisis management in the system of protection and rescue, with qualified human resources and forces to protect and rescue at the site, along with adequate material and technical resources deployed according to established risk maps, a system of protection and rescue in Serbia could become a good base for a functional and efficient system of protection and rescue. Let's say, that's one of the problems I wanted to give you this opportunity and give me, please, an answer is it possible to react in that light, and in light of course, and Chapter 27, negotiations with the European Union? Another thing I'd like to talk about, or just the third, this time, is the issue of internal reconstruction or the reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior, we've submitted an amendment to that, which is the creation within the MUP of the Organizational Unit of the AP Vojvodina Directorate. By abolishing autonomy, by effectively abolishing autonomy in 1978, every local function has been taken away, and to this day, under the wrong, wrong policy of the 1990s, it remains unrecognizable, although it is clear that a single comprehensive public security monitoring system for each local self-government cannot be implemented from the top of the ministry. Time has shown that centralised and stereotyped planning, based on statistics on crimes committed and offences recorded by the Ministry and the prosecution, is far from responding to the real state of security in each local self-government, and therefore cannot be carried out an actual assessment of the threat, nor can action be planned on the basis of it in the interests of citizens and citizens, who face this problem on a daily basis in the places where they live. For this reason, the Directorate of Police, in relation to the current organisation of the ministry, would aim to give citizens in the AP Vojvodina a new perspective in establishing public security in local self-governments and draw attention to their key role in creating a local security policy. The security policy of the local community can only be properly created if the needs of citizens are understood directly and if the citizen becomes the starting point of any investigation and resolution of the state of local security. In any case, at a time when there was such a system of arrangements, decentralised, when Vojvodina as an AP had its own police force, when we had a situation that every city, that is, the City of Novi Sad and the municipal secretariats of internal affairs were doing a job at the place, we had a much higher degree of solving all the crimes that took place on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and we had a situation much better security situation than we are now. It is quite clear that, given the specificities of the Vojvodina, and here I am talking about multilingualism and multinationalism, I will remind you that Vojvodina has six official languages in use, and that, for example, in the Russian Kristur, in which the majority of the population is Russian, there are no Russian-speaking police officers, and not to mention other places in which there are parallel uses and other languages other than Serbian, we come to a simple conclusion that this kind of organisation would contribute not only to restoring trust in the MUP and its workers in general, but would greatly enhance the security of all citizens of the AP Vojvodina, and by expanding this principle to other environments in Serbia, decentralisation by this model would raise the overall security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must remind myself that this centralized model took place in the 1990s in response to the regime of Slobodan Milosevic's need for full centralisation in order to achieve the war objectives of the then administration. Such a form of direct command from one centre to all armed forces, which is also the consequence of the introduction of military acts into the MUP, such a policy which has, of course, shown its disastrous consequences and which was rejected by citizens in the 24 September elections in 2000, has clearly shown that its relics must be removed and our society brought to civil modes of operation. Civilian in terms of decentralisation, democratic and return to police the possibility of operating locally with local personnel, who must have far greater powers than they do today. The reason is very simple. If local self-government can invest in the MUP, i.e. You secretaries of internal affairs in your field, then we can expect not only to raise the living standards of the workers of the MUP who work there, but also to better achieve them in the day-to-day performance of jobs, to ensure the safety of citizens. We were in a situation where because of this centralized way of functioning of Novi Sad and Nis, for example, they had not had police chiefs for almost four years because no political agreement was reached in Belgrade. We were in a situation, it wasn't during this government, but it doesn't change things because it talks about the system and the way things are set up, we came into a situation where the New Sad Police Station, for which the city of Novi Sad provided both the space and all the necessary resources, and Mr. Minister is very familiar with what I'm talking about, was delayed for months because there was no will from Belgrade to do so. It is clear that this way of functioning there is a narrow throat in the functioning of the MUP, that the MUP is a relic in this way of organising a centralised project that was necessary for the national socialist regime of Slobodan Milosevic to carry out its war activities and that simple translation into the civil sphere is what it is necessary to do in the next period. That it is not impossible to say that Mr. Minister also had talks with people from Republika Srpska's MUP who is only an entity next door to BiH and realized that this type of arrangement and organisation of the MUP in neighbouring BiH is possible and obviously acceptable. The Brussels Agreement makes it clear that four municipalities in northern Kosovo with the majority Serb population should as a community of municipalities, i.e. The four mayors, on behalf of the community of municipalities, are proposing a list of possible candidates for police chiefs in the area and will choose from that list of candidates from the central government as the most suitable candidate. None of this is even close to being in the powers of the AP Vojvodina, which is located in the Republic of Serbia, and it is therefore my question – is it possible, since we have given a series here, as I said the amendment, 31 to be precise, is it possible to change things, is it possible to modernise in the full sense of that word of the MUP, to bring it back into civil frameworks, i.e. to do his job, which is the safety of citizens, and not to be a permanent paramilitary unit that would be used to defend the regime against citizens, and that was the perception of the police in the '90s? Can we put local self-government in a position to see the police as an organic part of the state organized, among other things, through local self-government, not imposed, as Dr Vojislav Seselj, an instrument of force, or the Ministry of Power as he said, using Russian terminology, is that all possible? Is it possible to increase the standard of living of all employees in the MUP through all of this, to increase if necessary, i.e. examples of the needs of the number of operatives on the ground and thus raising the security of all citizens, including all the problems that my colleagues have mentioned before me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29004	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29005	I always have an inspiration when Mr. Canak says and I have to say about your first question of fame, Christian glory is something that's tradition and you're right, it's family glory and I somehow experience my colleagues and members of the Ministry as members of my other family. I invite them to glory and they respond and I just kind of experience it that way. As for the emergency sector, this sector now has the largest budget in 30 years. The convincingly largest budget in the last 30 years, and significantly through different capital allocations, will be able to advance, first of all, its own fleet related to the purchase of a fire-extinguishing vehicle. So, the assault vehicles used in Serbia's territory, but much more than that, we've got a brand-new uniform for lifeguards, then a complete intervention uniform for the regular work of firefighters and we're working on promotion, we're building several fire departments, we're working on improving the position of firefighters and their material preparation. We also did it with the police, I didn't say that, but we did it with the police, we got a complete cop uniform this year, a complete border police uniform, a complete uniform for the police intervention unit. So over 10,000 sets of uniforms. New shoes, this year we'll have another shoe purchase for the entire police force. We got one piece of the new vehicle. We're working on reconstructing multiple police buildings, let's say, that some were still taken over in the '50s and '60s and were really in bad shape. We're working on a technical and technological improvement of police with a number of computers, printers, which we'll be able to literally replace the old and the weary, on which it wasn't actually possible to work. So, as far as the emergency sector is concerned, there is, of course, always a possibility, as you said, it's not something unknown, it's possible and so to define sectors to be, let's say, a single organisational unit of government, but we have an emergency headquarters, which is basically co-ordinated by the work of everyone, as you said, the MUP is not the only one dealing with emergency situations, we have a headquarters that, in fact, through the Emergency Sector, we provide operational technical support through field activities to all other emergency defence entities, at times when the emergency situation occurs. As far as Staff is concerned, the Staff is preventive of giving instructions to local self-governments, economic operators, other units of the state administration, who are in fact tasked with preparing an answer to a potential emergency situation, to try to make sure that the consequences of the potential emergency situation are as small as possible. We are having a debate on this, so for the time being, the Sector remains within the MUP, because we thought it was more celibate because of the fruit and the police units, which are very often the first to join the field to help citizens and participate in flood rescue and in other extraordinary earthquakes, in everything else that is happening, so for now we think that it is more celibate. As far as the organization is concerned, the police were organised primarily through the Police Directorate, and the Police Directorate rests on a territorial organisation through 27 police administrations. Our territory of the Vojvodina has seven police administrations. These seven police administrations have one significant dose of independence in operation. They also have, of course, through the Police Directorate, or the Police Administration, at the headquarters of the Directorate, who can help them on the line of work and, let me say, direct their work, but primarily police officers from the territory of the district police departments correspond to the chief of police administration. The Chief of Police is their boss, so to speak, and the Chief of Criminal Police and the Chief of Traffic Police and the Chief of Police General. So, this person who's head of the district police department is managing, directing and organising the work of the police administration on the ground. And we, in fact, came from something that was a duchess, to six regionals, to seven regionals on Vojvodina territory, which we consider better than going back to one. We think it would be worse for the police to work. So we now have 27. The Police Directorate is directing and it is perfectly normal because Serbia is a relatively small country. We have this situation, in the same way, in Austria, Spain, Italy, France, Sweden, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Croatia, not to list now. Even a very small number of countries have a different model of organization than ours, because the system in a relatively small country is shown to be more efficient if you have full insight, you have full insight into the overall situation of security in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia and, of course, the view of work through, I say, the operational network of operations from border to border across the Republic of Serbia. As for these decisions we have made, we have called through the 2016 law a completely different system of competition, career advancement, so we have completely changed our practice so far. I agree with you, there have been some difficulties in some previous periods. There were problems, there were certain disagreements that the laws had predicted or did not foresee. There were far fewer members of the national minorities but, as counterpart Fremond said earlier in his presentation, we have made an effort to free and liberalise the access of members of national minorities to police by certain amendments and laws and sublegal acts. What's the problem, and it has nothing to do with whether we have one, 21 or 521 administration, we have a problem, so our conditions of competition are the same for everyone. We discuss the competition and whoever meets the conditions of the competition, he reports to the competition, he doesn't care whether he shows up to one district administration, whether he reports to the Directorate or whatever they call it. All that matters to me is that if we have someone from the Russian Cross, and that's our fellow MP who can, I can say, eventually, help us encourage people to report. So, we want to, my goal is to have a cop who lives in that municipality, who is a member of any people who lives there, it doesn't matter to me at all, because it's much easier for me to have someone who can encourage and initiate the trust of the citizens in the ranks of the police. Citizens today trust the police more than they believed during a previous period. I have a whole series of evidence for this claim. It's not a matter of whether I want to represent something as a number or not, I see it, but if it's still enough – it's not. We're trying, so now, we're, I hope that in a year's time, we'll see, encourage and receive a larger number of people in COPO, to say, it's already in line with our career plan, which is now very detailed, in municipalities where we miss people the most. For example, in some central parts of Serbia, southern Serbia, I have no problem with the police's fullness at all, and we do not call competitions at all. Some people come to us and say – well, we would like to, but I don't need someone to travel from Vranja to work in Subotica. I want a cop from Subotica to work in Subotica, because he knows neighbors, he can work better, he knows the situation at the bar, he'll be more committed, after all, sleeping there, and then he can know more than anyone who would travel every day to the house and back. We today have, as I would say, it seems to me that through this competition that predicts and a different kind of tests we have a very good base for selection. Through that, it seems to me that a solid number of people appear, through that selection base we can select the best candidates that we then receive in the form of police administrations. So, we think yes, we've set up a contest. We chose today to compete with all the chiefs of police administrations. We've got a full... Yeah, we're not in Nis, because after the replacement of the Chief of Police in Nis, we've been appointed to perform our duties until we call the competition, which we expect will happen, let's say, and that performer of duty is from Nis. We didn't choose a man from another town. We're trying, of course, yes, except in some emergency situations where we feel it's necessary to act, when the director can send someone and an emergency to that police administration, we now have in all police administrations elected to the competitions of police chiefs. It's a good system of work, as it's not always been, to say the least. I think we can establish more effective police work in this kind of organisational model. What is important, of course, is to use new systems that allow more efficient police work, above all, to allow cameras, different technical improvements, devices and new equipment, to use their time maximum well, or optimally, and in that sense we don't have too many people doing jobs that can do cameras and computers for them, and then the real work of the police to be more in communication with citizens. In that I agree that it is necessary to strengthen the work of municipalities. That's what we're working on. In the coming period, we will improve, I eventually initiated, was my initiative some two years ago, to form in all municipalities in Serbia where no security council was formed. A large number of municipalities did it. We have excellent communication today between local self-government and police stations. What local self-government sometimes doesn't understand and what I'm trying to explain to people is that someone is the president of a municipality or of any other authority of the territorial administration doesn't mean they're going to command the police. That would be politicizing the police. Police are run by a police director. The Director of Police makes decisions and district chiefs of police administrations, i.e. station chiefs. It's a line of an elder and a system of subordination provided for by the Police Act. Local self-government can't command the police, because that would mean a breach of the competition system. So, we have a system in which the prosecutor is in charge of the investigation, the police are elected in competitions and, I say, these competitions mean that the police officer knows exactly and clearly who he's responding to, so that there would be no interference and, ultimately, thanks to that, in the previous four years, a large number of municipality presidents and one part of them from the ranks of ruling parties have been brought in. If they were directly able to influence the work of the police, I doubt that would have happened, I doubt we could have come to evidence. This happened because we had an independent police force, or an independent police force, in relation to other state authorities, working on the prosecution's orders in criminal investigations. So, of course, there's still room to improve, I'm not saying that this is all ideal, but I think that compared to the period before 2016, before the law was passed, now the situation is significantly improved, which doesn't mean that it can't be promoted even more, even more, in two years. We try every day to make it better. I would really appreciate the help and the National Assembly in encouraging all citizens who have a desire to become part of the police, both from the ranks of national minorities and from the ranks of people who live, sometimes whether they belong to the Serb people or to some other people, from some parts of Serbia, we do not have much interest in joining the police, and we have needs. Of course, if these people were encouraged, then we'd have more equal police coverage and, of course, everything we talked about together, that cops belong to citizens whose language they understand well, where they can inspire some kind of respect in that society, and therefore through intelligence-led police work, they get enough information through that kind of model to be more efficient in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29006	Thank you, Minister. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29007	I'd just like a few remarks on what you said. I have no doubt that you believe that both in this principle and in this way in organized functioning, the MUP can achieve better results, but I am merely trying to underline that in that way, the existence of the Ministry of Interior of Vojvodina, i.e. In this case, according to our proposal from the Vojvodina Directorate, the results have already been better. So we have something that worked, and now there's something that might work. In that light, I think she was thinking about something that worked and gave the results didn't burn, because the complete story about the abolition of the Duke's Home Affairs Secretariat was about the paranoia of the regime in the '90s that I don't know what would happen if there wasn't a direct subordination of a command, as you said, but these are military expressions. Military because practically in the 1990s they were filled with militarization of the entire society, including all state authorities. It's nice to hear the police will have new uniforms and shoes. I hope that also applies to the Sot border crossing. That would really make me happy, since they've turned my attention a few times, and I tell you, that the situation is pretty bad and it's not representative, it can't be a representative picture of our country. In the end, I'd just say one thing. When you said you were family to the MUP, that's why you were celebrating the glory. Look, when someone sees the MUP as a family, they happen to experience the state as a family, and then it's no good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29008	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29009	Let me tell you one more time about this. The formation of another indirect body, whether it was called the Vojvodina Directorate or anything like that, is impossible that this type of territorial organization does not provide information to the police director, then the station chief would give to the head of the administration, the management of the directorate, the head of the director of the police. That would only give us more administrations and less efficiency. I really think of my colleagues as my second family. So I see them as people I've been through a lot with in these four years and who are really exceptional professionals, but I separate it from my professional performance. As far as professional action goes, we're in relationships professionally, but no one can tell me how I'm going to feel about these people who risk their lives every day to sit here completely safe. When I say that, believe me, I have no bad intentions, but only high respect for the people who do this hard work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29010	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, the Vladan Zagradian.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29011	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a set of draft laws in the field of internal affairs and security. Each of these proposals aims to contribute to the improvement and strengthening of the overall security system of the Republic of Serbia, while reaching the highest European standards. The Ministry of the Interior is a special and specific system that we cannot view as just part of a state apparatus. His work is of strategic importance to the state and citizens, and therefore he is always at the centre of public attention. The state and we as citizens daily face numerous situations that may be a threat to public and personal security, so that the equipment and training of the police and other security structures, as bearers and performers of these serious tasks, is one of the priorities of our government. The work of this sector is broad, starting with administrative jobs involving obtaining personal documents, through security concerns in traffic, maintaining public order and peace, managing emergency situations, preventing and preventing violence, fighting organised and international crime, up to the control of the state border, making police a significant factor in the preservation of our country's territorial integrity. Working with the police isn't easy. I would therefore take advantage of the opportunity to publicly commend all the members of the MUP, who, by their work and pawning daily in a responsible and professional manner, unhinged and with great risks to their lives, are doing this responsible job, making the citizens and our country safe and secure. When it comes to the security of the state, the challenges put before the ministry and the police require quick solutions, both to prevent and eliminate potential threats to the public order. The SPS Group and I personally believe that so far so much has been done to increase security, and I am convinced that in the future, too, major challenges, such as organised crime, drug trafficking, corruption, high-tech crime, irregular migration and human trafficking, will be answered in a way that characterizes members of the MUP - professionally, responsibly and morally. In my discussion, I will refer to several draft laws that are on the agenda today. I will speak integrally of the proposals of the asylum law and of temporary protection, of foreigners and border control, because they are closely linked to each other, and their adoption expects an even more significant contribution to fighting cross-border crime, combating irregular migration, protecting public order and achieving a high degree of security for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These draft laws improve the existing legal framework, and are also in line with EU legal assets, i.e. new directives. New legal institutes have been established, more clearly defined procedures and procedures, as well as competences in the conduct of state authorities. The proposal for an asylum law and temporary protection contributes to effective application of the law and provides greater legal certainty in seeking asylum while maintaining a high level of international standards in the field of human rights. The new proposal for a law on foreigners defines the rights and obligations of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as competent authorities and institutions. It is important to note that, as one of the authorities in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners, the BIA is being introduced to protect and ensure the safety of citizens of the Republic of Serbia through a security check. I would like to take the opportunity to remind you that by adopting the first Foreign and Border Protection Act in 2008, when the first Deputy Prime Minister and current Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic were headed, the conditions for setting up so-called The white Schengen, which allowed our citizens to stay unobstructed, visa-free, in the Schengen-listed countries. When we talk about increasing security risks in the previous period and the need to protect the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, significant solutions to our country's security and the fight against cross-border crime, irregular migration are contained in the draft law on border control. The current Law on the Protection of the State Border, which constitutes a basic legal act for border control, does not fully comply with EU standards, but is a good basis for improving the security of the state border. The new law improves the system of integrated border management, protecting not only security, but the economic system of our country as well. Given that all standards and rules of the Schengen area should be applied in the EU accession process, especially in the full membership phase. The main objective of this bill is to ensure the state's border, protect people's lives and health, detect and prevent criminal acts and violations, allow for faster border checks, both passengers and goods, and thus make their flow safe. The significant paper adopted by this law is the creation of a legal basis for the establishment of an information system, i.e. a border control platform, for more effective border checks on persons and goods. Also, the paper presents provisions that transfer the authority for the management of the instructor at border crossings to the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that all three laws will improve existing systems, improve the protection of human rights, protect the state and its public and constitutional order in order to increase the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the draft law on the single number of citizens, as well as the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that their aim is to achieve greater efficiency of the state administration that needs citizens to facilitate the exercise of rights. These laws provide for simpler procedures and administrative procedures before the authorities of the state administration, and provide for overcoming the many problems of missing years of application of existing laws, since they have not followed the application of new technical opportunities and the development of electronic services. Two more important new laws are on the agenda today, and these are the proposal for a law on the recording and processing of data in the field of internal affairs and the proposal for a law on the national DNA register. Taking into account the fact that the Ministry of Interior is the largest controller of personal data records, we consider it to be a very significant development of the draft law on the registration and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, which for the first time combines the database of personality data processed in the MUP records. This bill is largely based on the Personal Data Protection Act and defines technical, personnel and organisational measures for data protection that are collected in such a way that every citizen is guaranteed the protection of the right to privacy. The proposal for a law on national DNA register is the first law of this kind in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, which also relies on the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, but also on the Law on Data Processing in Internal Affairs. The establishment of DNA registers and the systematicisation of DNA data will significantly improve the quality of evidence of criminal proceedings in terms of the availability of a unique DNA database for the purposes of evidence actions, the most important being that these data will be used exclusively for the purpose of lighting criminal offences in criminal proceedings and for identifying the identities of unknown or missing persons. Another extremely important law to discuss is the draft law amending and supplementing the Police Act, which should ensure that the Police Act adopted in 2016 is applied even more effectively. In addition to the termological alignment of certain provisions with the laws that have come into force in the meantime, newspapers are also proposed to bring to greater legal certainty for citizens, as well as to ensure the smooth work of police officers. One of the newspapers is that the use of the title -- police are the sole rights of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. This solution will make a clear distinction between police officers and employees in other bodies and legal entities performing private security tasks, which will give citizens greater legal certainty. A significant newspaper is also a platform for safe electronic communication, i.e. the development of data and information between state authorities and institutions, which will improve the efficiency of the police themselves, as well as co-operation with other state bodies. Strengthening citizens' confidence in the work of police will certainly contribute to the introduction of a security check-up institute for police officers to identify any security disturbances for employment. This strengthens the tradition and practice of getting only responsible, professional, moral and honorable people in the MUP and the police. Several significant newspapers concern career development of police members, preventive measures of the internal control sector in order to combat corruption, psychological support for employees, but also social and economic rights for both police officers and for all employees of the MUP. I would point out that good and synchronised cross-sectoral co-operation in the ministry, as well as co-operation between administrations and units within the Police Directorate, but also better co-operation between the Ministry and other security services has resulted in a reduction in the overall rate of criminality. The results are visible and sensitive when it comes to general and public security. Fighting a drug trafficker is one of the priorities of the MUP, but also all of us so our children can be protected and safe. In the previous period, we could see record drug seizures. About 3.5 tonnes of narcotics were seized in the first ten months of 2017. A number of criminal groups have been broken. It has also worked successfully to cut off the chain of human and weapons smuggling, to solve economic fraud, to combat high-tech crime, but also to combat corruption in the ranks of the service, which has contributed to greater transparency and restored citizens' confidence in police work. I would also remind you of the great security challenge that we have faced as a state and people, which is a migrant crisis. Nearly a million people have gone through our country in the migrant wave, but in this case, the state has shown that it is ready to manage the crisis adequately, protecting, above all, national security, but also respecting all the principles of human rights protection. During the migration crisis, Serbia successfully co-operated with countries in the region and across Europe, continuously assessing the threat of terrorism, exchanging intelligence with all intelligence structures of other European countries, thereby preventing some serious crimes from taking place in the migrant wave. One of the significant results of the MUP is the successful fight against peer violence, primarily prevention and education, by which the Ministry of Education is conducting in schools in co-operation with the Ministry of Education. Since 2017, for the first time, a new university course has been introduced to schools – the basics of children's safety, aimed at raising the safety culture of students. This action is expected to deliver significant results, given that about two thousand police officers will keep training students in emergency situations, traffic protection, and the dangers of drug use, as well as the use of Internet and social networks. Statistics in recent years have constantly warned us that we need to deal more and more with domestic violence problems, especially violence against women, and it is commendable that the MUP is seriously accessing this problem and does a lot of things not only for victims of violence, but through serious training of its members, creating a professional frame to deal with this prolematicism. The role of police in preventing domestic violence and violence against women should be primarily preventive because it is up to the police to assess the risk that all other safeguards are being taken. I would take the opportunity to appeal for any violence to be reported, because by a timely reaction not only to the police, but to society as a whole, it will certainly contribute to reducing violence. I would also like to commend the fact that the MUP has also drawn up a strategic public security assessment as a modern document that envisions planning and performing police affairs with eight priorities over the next five years. In order for the MUP to carry out its strategic and operational tasks, it must continue to work on training and training of its employees, to invest in technical equipment and material resources, as well as to improve the material position of employees, which will enable the MIP budget increased by 13% for 2018 and should be welcomed. This shows the clear commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of Serbia's negotiating position with the EU when it comes to negotiating Chapter 24 – Justice, Security and Security. Given that the action plan for this chapter provides for a full reform of the security sector that requires additional funds, which will certainly contribute to police efficiency. And here we must point out that exactly the capacity of the MUP to turn all recommendations from the action plan into activities was crucial to opening this chapter, which includes everything that is the domain of internal affairs and directly depends on the security of citizens, but also their personal sense of whether they live in a fairer or more free state. Also, by harmonising our rules in this area with humanitarian law, our country is becoming part of the European security community, which today is a major security risk, which is not known to the state borders, very important. Dale, Serbia is no doubt becoming safer, thanks to police work and all institutions that are in the security system, and what is also important is to bring the police closer to the citizens, increase trust and better mutual co-operation to improve security and security. Co-operation in the area of security, not only at national but also at regional level, and in particular at the international level, the Republic of Serbia strengthens its position as a significant factor of stability in the region and a reliable partner in international relations. All of the above-mentioned SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposals of the law in this area, and other proposals from this search will be discussed by my colleagues from the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29012	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29013	I want to thank you, first of all, because I see that, besides what is contained in the text of the law, you've noticed those things that the MUP has extensively changed over the past two, or three years. Perhaps only the most important thing in this, let me say, in the last period, which is the initiative to introduce it into schools as a form of class education, to introduce a kind of education of children in the fourth and sixth, and since September and the first classes, related to the prevention of the dangers of drug abuse, alcoholism, more intensive learning about traffic safety, cyber security, emergency situations, of course. In that sense, we have already held 31,000 lectures. So one very impressive number in these last few months. A large number, as you said, of the 2,000 police officers involved, and we also hired retired police officers as auxiliary lecturers. I think it's also a good example of how to include, let's say, pensioners, who are relatively young, retire to the MUP, to take advantage of their knowledge. But I want to thank you once again for seeing that you are one part of our activities that we think are important for raising the level of security in the Republic of Serbia, recognized, and I think that this kind of support of the National Assembly is one incentive for all these people in the Ministry, and on that behalf I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29014	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29015	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr Minister, today we will discuss in principle these 18 points of the agenda, the numerous laws and amendments to the laws that look what they look like. We certainly won't be able to say enough about the many important things that are on the agenda today. You've spoken for 43 minutes, I have 20 minutes, and since I'm the president of an opposition parliamentary group, I'm not going to talk about the good things of this law. So there are good things, but I'll talk about the bad ones. It's bad, let's say, Mr. Minister, that today we won't be able to talk much about amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the roads. Every year in the Republic of Serbia, 600 people lose their lives in car accidents, 5,500 heavily, more than 15,000 easily injured, more billions of euros in material damage. It's important stuff. When this law was passed in 2009, it was on the agenda of Assembly 63 points of the agenda, but this law was discussed separately, because it is important. It is important for citizens to talk about how it is possible, that violent driving, as prescribed in this law, is necessarily punishable by prison, how it is possible for a man who drives a bridge in Belgrade in the opposite direction not to end up in prison, but to get the material punishment he says – never mind, I have money, I can pay, and some points. What is the state of this country when possible and will the changes that are here change it? I couldn't hear that from you in the few minutes you spent on this bill. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, as former president of the Assembly, you should know that unfortunately, we will not be able to discuss this in detail, because the MPs of your parliamentary group on the first 10 members of the first law in this package, the Law on Foreigners, have submitted 340 meaningless amendments, with the idea of spending time, not even coming to debate in detail about this law, or the Law on the Police, or any other laws in this package. And it's bad, and so you won't realize the intention you've been talking about here, the need for this law to change, because the citizens won't be able to hear anything about it. We're missing a big opportunity to talk about those things that are in this law and whether they're all good and whether they're good enough. You have listed some and what you have stated I support, but I repeat, is the law the way it is conducted and will after the changes be implemented in another way? The law on public order and peace, we talked about it on the board. He has one member, you filed it, and I welcome it, in October of the month with the idea of increasing the fines for the use of firecrackers. We're in March today, it's past that time. It's not your fault, it's the president of the assembly and most of them who didn't want to put this on the agenda earlier. Would you then prevent that one child, it was news that a two-year-old kid caught a firecracker and lost his hand, wouldn't that have happened if this law had been passed? It is now too late, and we may need a more fundamental amendment to the Law of Public Order and Peace, not just this one member, because of everything that is happening in this country, violence at sports events and other places. This article is not controversial, everything else is disputed. The law on the national DNA register, you were saying that DNA identification is the best way to find the perpetrators of crimes, and how is this DNA going to make it possible for the police to be better off with crime? I don't know if that's relevant to the Greater Trouble case, because he's just been cleared by a DNA expert of charges of committing a murder. First, DNA was reportedly found at the place where he was killed, and then the expert said it wasn't good, or his DNA was not found there. He was found only in a car that involved in the transportation of persons suspected of murder, or no one is suspected, committed murder, we only have helpers. Now we see at the trial that it's likely that the trouble will be freed from help, because they say the DNA material wasn't clean. Will the DNA of this registry that you suggest us introduce into our legal system prevent any trouble or other criminals from being released when they find themselves there? I don't think he's gonna do anything. What's gonna happen? In this law, you treat DNA materials and victims of both suspects and adults and children exactly the same. Under this law, someone's DNA material that's found there may be some kind of victim to stay. Are we going to delete it? The victim's DNA can't be in the same register and treated the same way as the unsub's DNA. You have not regulated it in this law in a legal manner and that is why this law is bad, but unfortunately we will not have the opportunity to discuss it in particular because we will discuss foreigners and investors. Let's go back to these foreigners and investors. Are the foreigners and investors Mr. Vasilev from Bulgaria, who is hiding here in Serbia, but not much hiding, but besides the warrant that was being issued in Bulgaria and the European arrest warrants, he has done his jobs in Serbia, privatised companies, reported to competitions, received state affairs, as well as some businessman Gica from Romania, so in partnership with a Serbian citizen who received jobs from the Ministry of Finance, are these foreign investors we will listen to when there is a debate here in particular? Is Serbia turning into a safe house for criminals? Or Serbia will go into the fight against crime and corruption, because what you said years ago to move on some lists that perception of corruption has now started on those lists, unfortunately, to show that Serbia is going backwards, so on the Transparency International Perception of Corruption in Serbia has grown and we have fallen by some five places, I think, on that famous list. Why is that a case? Because we have a professional and depolitic police force. If so, why did Inspector Nebojsa Blastic of Nis, when he conducted an investigation against a prominent friend of the ruling party and the financier, who travels with the Prime Minister and represents a Serbian economy, he remains alert and shows himself later illegally retired. A man instead of being rewarded for fighting crime and corruption in the state of Serbia, he is retired by force. Then the court brings him back, then the minister, or director of the police, retires him again. What did he find out? He discovered the crime scene, but discovered that during his investigation, data from the investigation, he said, via BIA and SNS are reaching those he investigates. Will now, Minister, by adopting this law on police, it be disabled? He won't. I'm responsible for saying he won't. What does the law on police reform bring? First of all, it brings the minister's ability to hire himself out of the competition of people if the systematisation act shows the need for a number of perpetrators in that place. That act is otherwise confidential. The minister will be able to hire people, of course, only from his own party. What this law adopts, if adopted like this, is a violation of the constitutional right of citizens to privacy. In what way? The law prescribes security checks not only for those employed in the MUP, but for all persons in the immediate environment of a person who is protected by security. Where does this circle end? What is this immediate environment, Minister? The person who protects himself. By leaving this wide-ranging law, we are in a situation that every citizen of Serbia will be able to be checked by the MUP, and we know where it is going. We know countries where the state has treated citizens' human rights in this way, how things have ended in these countries. We can call them fascism, one way or another, but history is full of such examples. Next thing you know, this law will not boost the relationship and co-operation between the prosecutor and the police. What remains by law is that a police officer applies police powers under orders from a competent official, a public prosecutor or another competent authority, issued in accordance with another special law. This will leave the possibility of someone else telling the acting police officer acting in an investigation on the orders of the prosecutor what he needs to do and whether he's going to conduct the investigation or obstruct it. That this is happening, according to the Serbian Prosecutors' Association poll. He says more than 200 investigations have been analysed, and in more than half of the cases, the prosecutor had to intervene in order to fulfil the order he gave to a police officer, because police officers did not want to carry out the warrants. Is that, say, a case in the Savamala case? Is it possible, Mr. Minister, after all these great changes to the 2016 Police Act, to suspend the Constitution on 24 April, on 24 April 2016, on the night of 24 April 2016 in Belgrade for several hours? That armed masked persons are holding captive citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while other masked persons are destroying someone's private property and we haven't known anything about it in two years by the police? We had the D.A.'s office obstructing this investigation, not acting on the prosecution's orders, and that only one who should take the blame for what was going on that day should be a responsible police officer, on duty at the center where the citizens were reporting that night, looking for police help, because someone detained them, deprived them of liberty, contrary to the law, the Constitution, and the response of the police on duty was – call the municipal police. Will we welcome the fight against corruption that exists in Romania, as it exists in Israel? Someone here yesterday spoke of Israel as an orderly country. In Israel, police are currently hearing the prime minister of corruption charges. Did the police listen to Minister Vulin explain where he got 200 grand and more, I don't know how many euros to buy an apartment, and can there be an answer in the normal state: "she sent me an aunt from Canada" and that a police officer who acts says, "Yes, it's okay, there's no need for further investigation"? There's an aunt from Canada, she sent it, there's no problem. All of this, Minister, along with all these laws, is one agreement, international, on co-operation with the Russian Federal Security Service. I read it carefully. There are so many broad terms, I wonder if this is how we leave our security and security insights and how this country protects the safety of its citizens to another country? Some concepts are clearly defined – protected persons, objects, treatment in the exchange of information. But there are also too broadly defined terms. I think it would be your turn to tell us if that's the case with the agreements we have with other security services from other states. Or is this some kind of exclusivity? All of this, Minister, the way we begin this session, the way we're going to conduct the debate on these laws, applies to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we should all be concerned. The adoption of these laws will not increase the security of citizens. Fighting corruption and crime will not be more effective. What we're going to get, we're going to get party police, the possibility of the minister hiring people on his own, we're going to get, at the very end of the line, one illogicality. The first law, amending the Law on Police, says that only the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior can use the term - police. And in the Traffic Safety Act, we have an appointment - municipal police. So what do we do now? What do we do now? Yeah, he's three years old to bring the laws into line. Three, three, three years each. You are now extending the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts in the police today, although not all sublegal documents are brought in on time and thus just prolonging your time and your will.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29016	Thank you. You're out of time. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29017	Who better to know about the party police than Mr. Djurisic, at whose time all the essential levers of the security of the decision were, above all, in courts and prosecutors, who decided on what judgments would be made, but literally, they made a party decision. People, you had a newspaper that dictated titles, you have examples of them having headlines about judgments for the next day, about judgments on the front pages, in line. They know very well the citizens of Belgrade, so they've made a good assessment now that they've gone to the polls, about everything you've talked about, everything you've been saying backwards, how well they've assessed the security situation in Belgrade, what they think about what they think about those who talk to them differently and what they think about people who convince them every day that it's better to be that toad, wagons and rats and wrecks, instead of what we've got in the area of Beograda on Water. After all, in that polling post, citizens who went to the polls with 40%, which is significantly better than our overall score, in the Sava Venec they gave support to the list I belong to, whose party I belong to. Unfortunately, you've brought so much incorrect information here, it's hard to deny it all. But I'll start with the biggest ones. Unfortunately, you've invented that it's possible to hire. It writes very clearly – it is possible to hire without competition only in the case of families of dead and wounded police officers. We left that as a possibility. Should we have left these children on the street and the fathers and mothers gave them their lives for Serbia's safety? Of course I'm going to fight that these kids have at least some of this country, at least not to go through any difficulty they might have. You didn't care about that. Do you know how much your great authority employed these children, the dead soldiers and police officers at the time? That's embarrassing. You didn't care what they gave their lives for this country. You weren't interested at all. If it were of interest to you, we would hire, except for those of your party and party parties, soldiers and all the others, to hire one of those children. But you weren't interested at the time. You weren't interested, because then you'd at least hire, so you'd have a chance to tell me that I'm not telling the truth, that you've hired. Where did you hire? Where did you work in the army? Where did you hire the state administration? Where did you hire in the government? Where? Not one. You weren't interested, then you were ashamed of those who were bleeding for this country and these people who were doing something for Serbia. What happened to the kids who finished the KPA? What happened to them? We've left the possibility that whoever finished the KPA might be. Somewhere not responding, because the kids are long gone, they can't meet all the basic conditions of competition, let's just say, years of life. Well, should it be because they have a year of life more than a competition to never work in a profession they've been trained for? Of course we'll hire them. But they're the only categories. The only one. That's clearly what the law says. You've been making, we've been listening, we've been listening, we've been listening -- the minister's gonna be doing this, the minister's gonna be back for years. Where the hell are those guys we hired, in the police? If it wasn't Vlad Rebic, who's been working with the police for 25 years? Is it him? I didn't bring any police chiefs, I didn't bring any. I don't know what these people are called. I found them at the police station by calling the competition. I didn't bring a single one. I don't know any of the names, not in this, not in that community. I don't know these people personally. I've seen some of them. I know them from meetings. I don't know who these people are. They worked for the police for 20, 30 years. It's great that they've been in all periods, 30 years, perfect. But now that he's another minister, it's some party personnel. You make these people I don't know what. Every day we hear about how these police people are some hotshots, criminals, a party army. I don't know what to say to these people when I meet them at meetings? Why do some people call them that? They've only worked for it their whole lives. The investors you had were mostly from Montenegro, mostly from two or three clans. They were key investors at the time. The money that's invested in our country is known to be powerful and known from what, if the DEA hadn't intervened several times, I don't know if they'd know their names, let alone if they were arrested. But that time in Serbia has passed, there are no drug clans and drug mobs here that can seriously endanger the Republic of Serbia as it once could. Today both the police and the D.A. are doing their job seriously. Of course, we have a lot of problems all over the region, but we won't be allowed to create clans and mob states in our country's territory. We don't give it, our country will fight it and ultimately, our job is to act in accordance with the law. As far as all these questions are concerned about what you've said to the Great Trouble, whether someone will be, or whether his work will be qualified in one way or another, it depends on the prosecutor, and as far as I'm concerned, it's all on the hardest of terms, I don't care about every criminal. Let the prosecutors do their job and let the court do their job and get evidence the way they think they should get it. If they find that the DNA skill is not good, let them seek a new one, let them seek the help of specialized laboratories, let the prosecutor qualify the act, let him accuse him of whatever he wants, and let the court condemn him or set him free any way he pleases. The police did their job and there's nothing else to add. As far as the Traffic Safety Act is concerned, the Traffic Safety Act doesn't touch any of those things you've been talking about. The one driving in the opposite direction is the punishment imposed under the Law on Violations, which is not prescribed by the MUP. By the way, I'm all for it, I have a little kid, so I'm in favour of giving the most severe possible traffic security sanctions, the hardest possible and to sharpen everything. That's what we did with the Traffic Safety Act, we went only to relieve those of the administrative nature, because there's no need for someone who forgot that his license expired, to punish by subtracting points. That would be pointless. Otherwise, this man who was driving in the opposite direction is now in the jurisdiction of another health institution, I don't know if he'll be able to be convicted, and ultimately it's not my job. As for the state of security and the Agreement with the Russian Federal Security Service, I want to know, because a lot of stories have come out, because some would like to introduce us as that Agreement, because of the sentence we make co-operation, be careful, it's the Federal Security Service. That Federal Security Service is like our security unit. He deals with the physical protection of faces and objects in the territory of the Russian Federation. As our National Security Unit of the Republic of Serbia. It's not security services, it's not people who handle data that fall within the domain of intelligence work and ultimately in that sentence the same thing that everyone asked me what it means, it says in accordance with the country's legislation, so we can't go beyond our law to do anything. Let me tell you, we with the U.S. have intensive co-operation with all their security services, and we exchange information concerning terrorism, because we think it's in the interest of our country, but we've never been asked here -- why do you cooperate with them? But we're working with everyone. It is in our interest to cooperate with both Germany and Russia and China and America and Canada and France and with all other countries. In all cases, we have proposed laws, or agreements, in accordance with our law, we protect our interests and ultimately in each agreement, which is a typical agreement, which we have with all the countries of the world. It's type agreements. It says, that we will carry out all the activities in accordance with domestic legislation, so what has better protection than that? You can't work with someone besides your law. If you're doing it past the law, and you're doing it against the law, it's a crime, and you don't need any agreement at all, and this agreement doesn't allow you to break the law in any way. On the contrary, it gives you the opportunity to work. So, you know what's been going on since we've been working together? Our boys went to Russia to learn how to drive armored cars on ice. It was a concrete collaboration and their instructors were here, they had training here with these guys, we publicly called in the training center of Navak we had a public demonstration of the skills they heard. It was co-operation so far, and thank these people for helping us, doing it for free, doing it for us, teaching our guys to be more efficient, like others do. So there's no mystification, this is, I think it's good co-operation, and through all these laws on international police co-operation, which we'll be able to raise the efficiency of our police force. In the end, let's bring those professionals closer to the fact that, in cases where their mutual cooperation on the ground is needed, such as security of some facilities or when we work with the Spanish, the joint arrest of some drug dealers. It's important that these people know each other, and that's how better work is created. Of course these laws are in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29018	I'll give you my word anyway, but first Martinovic to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29019	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, both yesterday and today, the SNS is inaugurating fascism, yesterday by Marinika Tepic, and today by Marko Djurisic. Fascism is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when a guy of 20 and a few years, you smash his skull with police boots. That was what happened to Rank Panic at a time when the president of the Republic was Boris Tadic. It was fascism. At the time of Boris Tadic, Marko Djurisic and all other DOSists, highly positioned police officers Marko Gavrilović Gavr were killed in 2001 and in 2002 Bosko Buha and Mr Nenad Batcanin. It all happened at a time when Serbia was ruled, now it looks like the late and deceased DS. As far as Savamala is concerned, we talked about it in the National Assembly and I'll do it again. Gentlemen who speak of Savamaloj and who have tried to win the Belgrade elections, speaking of Nebojsa Stefanovic, as the main phantom of the Savamala, persistently keep quiet some facts, and I now want to remind people's MPs and citizens of Serbia of those facts, but also to draw attention to you, Mr Stefanovic. The owner of these illegally erected facilities in Hercegovina Street was performed by Vladimir Markovic, a member ahead of course, DS, a member of the City Transport Council until 2008. With his Italian partner in those facilities on Hercegovina Street, completely illegal facilities, did not pay taxes, did not pay taxes, electricity, ended up, had a Peroni dispatch centre and when Italian realized it was a big fraud, he withdrew from the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29020	Thank you, MP, you will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29021	Therefore, there was also crime, there was great damage to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29022	Marko Djurisic, would you like to respond to the individual minister and MP? Just the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29023	There's no need for me to respond to all the nonsense that's being heard here. So, Minister, since we won't have a chance to speak in particular, point 4) of Article 135 is the exception of non-competition admissions, when the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization stipulates that the competition is not being conducted for individual jobs. So, not the ministers what you were saying, it's point 3) and it's not controversial, it's hiring relatives and children. Officer down. But you're telling a lie, Minister. You're telling the truth and you're telling the truth all the time. If you said that a violent driving thing is just a violation, why are we adopting this law, what's the point, if the problem is only in the Law of Infractions, even though there's no criminal responsibility. You were talking about investors in our time and how we learned their names from the DEA. We may have learned their names from the DEA, but they sat with you and played chess, Mr. Minister and were your friends and now they're back in Serbia and they say we trust this country. We see how these cases go and how one by one your friend is not released in court, because the evidence is such that he can't be released, but the cases go out of date, Mr. Minister. In the end, I will quote to you, Mr. Churchill, who said: "Neither success is final nor failure is deadly. The courage is to move on, and what counts." I, Mr. Minister, am neither discouraged nor afraid to fight for what I believe in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29024	Thank you. Otherwise, ageing is 30 years, a respected colleague, for such crimes, to help you, I have no evil intentions. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29025	People, it was so disproportionate at the time, so many people who took part in the drug trade, so it wasn't petty violations, it was drug dealers of the first category, who were key investors, buying property in Serbia, that they all turned their heads and went to parties with them, celebrating and celebrating children's birthdays. It was a mess, it was a disaster. At the same time, 400, 500, 600 thousand people were out of work, but it's important that the brotherhood enjoyed various privileges. They bought them expensive roller skates, didn't buy them for us. They've had houses, fairies, palaces, them, not us. As far as this situation is concerned, point 4 is concerned, when it comes to the act on internal planning and systematisation, where it is intended for individual jobs, and in this act it says, when it comes to deficiting jobs, such as programmers, and this act will not be applied and this does not apply until the new systemisation act has entered into force which will now be made. So we led him almost to the end. You saw, I'm showing it to you in the case of the last four years, so it wouldn't be, if we were talking ahead, we weren't doing it. In 2017, children from the KP and COP were employed, exclusively. That's what got us mixed up with you people. We're not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29026	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29027	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. This is where I'm told I'm talking nonsense. I don't think it's stupid when you mention it and when you draw attention to the fact that at the time of the former regime and the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, Ranko Panic was killed. I don't think it's stupid when you kill on the streets of Momira Gavrilovic, Bosko Buhu, Nenada Batcanin, well, in the end, in 2003, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself. As far as investors are concerned, Mr. Stefanovic mentioned some of your famous investors from Montenegro, who got rich by dealing drugs to Serbian children. But let me remind you of some more of your big investors and big business partners, for example – Dragoljub Markovic "Bird Product", and then a man who had the exclusive right to asphalt in your time, as it was, Chume, is that right, "Difens Road". They're all your companies and they were all your friends. The Legion was your biggest friend by 2003. You declared him a national hero. He helped you perform October 5th, etc. They were all your friends. They went to discotheques with you. You've been swimming in their pools and you've been working there asking God what. So these were your friends. They were your investors. In 2011, if so, Mr Arsic, you declared the biggest investment the fact that Miroslav Miskovic sold "Maxi" to Delese. He says it was the biggest investment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29028	2010
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29029	I'm sorry, 2010. There, that was their investment. Little Dragoljub Markovic, little Chuma, little Legion, little Miskovic, little one, little one, were investments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29030	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29031	And as a result, from 2008 to 2012, we had 400,000 people who had lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29032	Thank you. Replica, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29033	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to know who killed Mr. Panic. That's what the police minister, the director of the police, and maybe it's best to ask whoever told him not to go to the hospital hurt... (Srbislav Filipovic: Shame on you. )......................................................................................................... who told him he was hiding and who died of internal bleeding two days later and didn't go to seek medical attention. Now, that's a question. (Serbislav Filipovic: Bastard. You can say... Mr. Chairman, do you want to respond to the word trash?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29034	What do you want me to react to?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29035	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29036	Mr. Djurishic, you're so loud, I don't hear anyone but you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29037	Can't you hear anyone? Thank you. Then listen well, I'm Mr. Legion and I haven't seen anyone from the Zemun clan, but your Minister Lonchar has pictures with them. He bought an apartment from the Zemun clan. If you want to explain something to the citizens of Serbia, explain it. If you want to answer who's responsible for the murders and Gavrilovic and Buha and all the others you've... Let's start with who killed Oliver Ivanovic. Come on, answer that. Mr. Minister, one of your many functions is the head of the Service Coordination Bureau. Who did Mr. Ivanovic point to before his murder to threaten him and that his safety was compromised? From who? Say that, and don't talk about Buha, Gavrilovic, about something 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29038	Right on line, MP Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29039	So, Marko Djurisic asks us why Ranko Panic did not go to the hospital, and now I ask you Mr Đurisic - and who beat you two and a half months ago when you demonstrated in Belgrade, when you were protesting because you were reportedly unhappy with the results of the election, where you experienced a convincing debacle, a debacle that was not seen in Serbia's political history, as you have now experienced in the Belgrade elections. At a time when Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, a police officer last year in two and a half months on the streets of Belgrade, could not see, and in your time you sent an unarmed people to protest against Boris Tadic's special unit in July 2008. You've been throwing battle poisons at people. It wasn't tear gas. The people who were at that protest know this place, you were throwing battle poisons. How are you not ashamed to ask questions now why Ranko Panic could not go to the hospital? How can she go to the hospital with a police boot in her head? So he was killed and it happened in your time, at the time of Boris Tadic and in the time of DS, as did the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, Buha, Batcanin, Djindjic and all others. What do you say now - that was 15 years ago and now it doesn't matter what happened 15 years ago? Doesn't it matter that people were killed? It doesn't matter that someone killed a 20-year-old boy because he opposed the politics of his royal majesty Boris Tadic, the infallible and wise leader of Serbia, who so successfully led the state that in four years he managed to leave 400,000 people out of work?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29040	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29041	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating Article 6. Rules of Procedure of Section 3, that during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Mr. Chairman, just now as Mr. Djurisic spoke to him all along, he was given the ugliest names of representatives of the ruling parties, to the extent that they called him trash and you didn't respond to it. You did not find it appropriate to warn the one who told Djurisic that he was a bastard. Is that the vocabulary to be used here in this home and who you support, Mr. Chairman? The whole time the man was talking here, there were throws. So be prepared to hear the opposition's attitudes as well. Be prepared to hear the opposition's criticisms, no offenses or insults. Here, representatives of the ministry were disillusioned as Mr. Djurisic spoke, looking for ways to answer him and how to hide the truth he was telling. Face the truth and tell the citizens of Serbia that, but don't insult the MPs in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29042	Mr. Alexic, if I were to apply the Rules of Procedure in this section, I believe that this few MPs you have around you would be excluded from the session. Whoever did this, face it once and for all, because I was involved in some events from that time that was mentioned, and I know very well what is true and what is not, and it is obvious that citizens are increasingly learning about what is true and are giving reviews in the elections. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29043	Thank you, Chairman. A member of the 104th and the president of the Assembly was injured, and then also from you, because I asked for a replica since MP Marko Djurisic was very bad at expressing himself and talking about Alexander Vulin. That right was denied to me and you denied me the opportunity to say here that I am absolutely certain that all the public authorities, all the public prosecutors who questioned the application to the Anti-Corruption Agency, especially under this pressure, are the media links that were led against Alexander Vulin, certainly examined it in detail. I am sure of that, but what I do know is that at the time of Boris Tadic or the public prosecutor's office, the police did not act on criminal charges against Boris Tadic and his associates, for carrying out and laundering money from the Republic of Serbia, where associates Boris Tadic were rewarded with 10% to 15% for the amount of money they were making in Belgium or Dubai. Not only were they not acting, they were not allowed to make that criminal report, not even to lead them astray. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29044	I thank my colleague Komlenski. I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you certainly used your right to reply, so one minute as much as you've spent, you're being denied the time of the parliamentary group. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. You no longer have the right to replicas. (Marko Djurisic: Replica, Martinovic mentioned me. There were Rules of Procedures. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29045	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 103, 106, 107, from a violation of dignity to an opportunity to take away the time of the gentlemen who have abused the Rules of Procedure. Namely, dignity is injured. There was talk of fascism, then the MPs told us about the murders, etc. As someone who was beaten up in 2008, as an opponent of Boris Tadic, I cannot call it fascism, but remandism. As someone who got beat up in front of his wife in 2007, along with a journalist, a well-known journalist who was also beaten up just because after one contact show, Boris Tadic and his escort didn't match what I said. As someone who remembers the murder of those soldiers and the role of Vuk Jeremic in all of this, it is inadmissible for me to be sewn up by some fascism, to sew up some extreme nationalism and therefore, Mr. Chairman, asking that in future, when gentlemen mention it, to remind them of the team before they have the least right to talk about fascism, beating up, beating up, killing, not to talk about who's gone after the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, I'm certainly not, and let them think about who came into his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29046	I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement? (Marian Risticevic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. (Gordana Comić: Replica. Excuse me, colleague Sanda. Col. Komic, if you think you have acquired the right to a replica just because your colleague Martinovic said that at the time of DS authorities, Ranko Panic, that late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, General Buha, etc., I do not see why you have the right to replication? Those are the facts that happened. (Gordana Comic: Because I am an authorised representative. No, you can't. He didn't say anything else. He just said it was at the time of your government. (Gordana Comic: National MP Aleksandar Martinovic spoke about the late DS. ( b) Comrade Sanda, sign up again for your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29047	I'm sorry you didn't let Mrs. Comic go, but since I can see that you have no intention of letting her go, then I'll go with my exposure. So, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have many laws here. I don't think any MPs will be able to look back on all of them. From what I've had a chance to see, I'm going to start, you might be surprised, with something that's quite fine and that we're even willing to support, which is the Law on Records and Data Processing, which has introduced order into personality data, but we're also drawing a line here. The next draft law is the draft law on the national DNA register, and here we find that the law contains provisions, whose adoption implies serious violations and risks of human rights. The unique register of genetic data of all persons, regardless of whether they are perpetrators of serious crimes or are perpetrators of attempt or victims, whether they are adult or minors, and all of this when they are together, both in our findings and in the findings of the Commissioner for Access to Information of Public Meaning, is not good and can really endanger the human rights of these people. As far as we could see, the Trustee spoke to you personally, or to the Ministry. He also addressed the Human Rights Committee in the Serbian Parliament and also the Security Services Committee and their control, but there was no answer to that. These solutions are also absolutely controversial from the point of view of the standards on the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, they are controversial and in collegiate with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the European Convention on Human Rights, which is directly contrary to the European Court of Human Rights' views. This isn't just our opinion, it's also the opinion of the trustees, and I think you should consider that opinion. I'd move further on to the proposal for a foreign law. I hope I am not mistaken, but it seems to me that one of the basic ideas that has made this law on foreigners is either to create a legal basis, or to cover the current government, that it can organise the acceptance of the new wave of refugees being prepared, refugees from African or Asian countries. I will quote here Article 15 of the bill in paragraph 1, which taxfully lists situations that deny a foreigner the possibility of entering the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while Article 3 of the same article prescribes an exception to those situations and says, "I quote that an exceptional foreigner who is found to be in possession of some of the interferences in Article 1 may approve entry into the Republic of Serbia, if there are humanitarian reasons for that, or the interest of the Republic of Serbia, or this is imposed by the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia". What's going on here is this "International Obligations of the Republic of Serbia". The international obligations of the Republic of Serbia are not, ladies and gentlemen, a legal definition, but a political definition. It should be legally defined what international obligations are, which are agreements that are signed, what we have signed that we should do, so this political provision looks like we must then receive all that to make the people understand what Germany will not and cannot accept, to receive it then Serbia and to become a large parking lot for migrants. Now, for the record, I'm a refugee myself, and I have a very big empathy for people who, by running from war, are looking for their place under the sun and are looking for safety. But what bothers here is one, I would say, a dose of insufficient definition, better said lack of honesty than this law itself, because such a legal solution creates the possibility that a good part of the people who come to Serbia will remain here. The same solution is also in article 61. The bill, which regulates the temporary stay of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for humanitarian reasons, lists the reasons in five points when the competent authority can grant a foreigner a temporary stay, but also the formulation or the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. Please do not treat these international obligations as political, but as a legal provision and lean on something. Maybe you're leaning on, I don't know, I mean, I want to ask the minister now, on the signed Readmission Act, where, under that law, we become a country of first asylum or you rely on something else. But here's what I'd like to know, and I think we'd like the citizens to know. In that law, we have another illogicality that occurs in measuring the range of threatened fines. Namely, there's article 120. The bill, which is prescribed, among other things, that a fine of between five thousand and 150 thousand dinars will punish a natural person who, within 24 hours of the arrival of a foreigner, does not report to the MUP the fact that a foreigner will stay at his address. In practice, we all face situations where one of our family's gone to live abroad. I think it's hard to find a family in Serbia where at least one child has gone abroad, married or married a foreigner, brought my children and my wife here to Serbia and now, if I or some of my countrymen as grandparents and as a mother-in-law don't report my grandchildren, sister-in-law right now, she can be punished with such a high fine. This absurdity is the bigger we have, say, Article 121, so the same article says that a domestic natural person with a 60-day sentence, which, I must say, is quite justified, given the severity of the offense, will be punished by a fine that can be measured in the same range as in Article 120, so, from five thousand to 150 thousand dinars, if it deals with human trafficking or if it is caught illegally transferring migrants, or persons who entered the country illegally across the border. So we can't possibly have the same situation as five to 150 thousand if we don't sign up for our own grandkids, and if someone gets caught making money and dealing with human trafficking across the border, that's what needs to be corrected anyway. We now come to the proposal for asylum laws and temporary protection. This proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection is compatible with the proposal for a law on foreigners, and I understand that it is actually a single overall and political objective is the same, which is to create a legal basis for the acceptance of migrants. The proposer, in his explanation, insists on the fact that the basic reason for the adoption of a new asylum law is to bring our legal framework into line in this area with EU directives. This argument is difficult to accept, given the concrete solutions in the draft law, other than the finding that compliance has been taken into account, I quote, with Directive 2001/55 of the European Commission, which lays down minimum standards for the granting of temporary protection in the event of a mass inflow of displaced persons, the measures applicable to the reception procedure, the obligation for a country that accepts displaced persons, as well as the rights and obligations of persons to whom that protection is granted. Now, here's what bothers me a little bit, which is why we don't see what this is, which is the establishment of an asylum office. In fact, we think this is about doubling capacity, because there is a Department of Foreigners within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is an operational-functional part of the Border Police Administration, despite other jobs, also performs asylum and services for foreigners. It has three sections – one is the department for status issues and control of foreigners, the other is the department for the reception and accommodation of foreigners and the third is the asylum department. I'm not from this legal solution, or from this proposal, we didn't understand whether it was about whether the Foreigners' Department would still have the asylum department, in addition to forming an asylum office. At the very establishment of an asylum office, it's not who's going to work in that office, whether some people are going to be withdrawn, for example. from this Department of Foreigners, to work here, or, as we think, it will be another point for party employment. So that's where you need to determine whether there's going to be a double capacity and whether there's going to be this asylum department besides the office or whether there's going to be no need to form it at all. Next, we have an asylum commission. I think the asylum commission has more and more serious countries and it's actually a kind of political body. It would be very nice if the asylum commission as a kind of political body hired people who are really highly qualified in a professional way and who have respectable moral characteristics, because in this asylum commission it can also be human and politically wrong, and then someone we can as the whole of the country carry on our souls, such as, say, a very ugly move to throw up that asylumist from Turkey Erdogan. If we had an asylum commission and this commission, now this hypothesis has been working by human standards, then that man would never have been returned there. It is clear to me that Serbia must not and cannot remain outside the political debate on the issue of migrants and that we should not be just someone who will wait for someone else to fix the quotas for him. But it seems that somehow we have fallen into a trap and that this story of migration, of migrants, of asylum and of everything that is related to it, we have entered unilaterally, and this one-sided interpretation of migration is, well, these people are there, we need to receive them, but we must not forget that we are treating only the consequences, and we are not treating the causes. We forget that EU countries, especially with the United States, have participated in the formation of certain hotspots from which these people are fleeing today. I think we should take something different and start treating the disease, not treating the consequences. It is clear to me that this asylum law is also part of what the EU requires of us, but I think that we should have somewhere here, to preserve our autonomy and our own self-loathing. I don't understand that Germany has received a million migrants, and that it is enough, that it can't and that it wants to share the burden with others, but we believe that Serbia this poor, Serbia that hasn't quite solved the problem of its refugees and internally displaced persons, Serbia to which the Kosovo problem hangs, don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that if a legal-binding agreement with Kosovo is signed, we will have a large number, unfortunately, far away from it, of Serbs from Kosovo who will come here as internally displaced persons. I'd like to finish, because I don't have time to discuss other laws, one of Pekic's sentences, because you've been very fond of Pekic lately. He said in his "years eaten by locusts" -- there are no good police that can replace a rusty policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29048	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29049	Thank you. Just for a little while, let me look at another need to define this section of the DNA registry bill. Namely, as far as DNA is concerned, only a court can give a warrant to take DNA and the court doesn't make a difference. So the court can give a warrant to any person to take DNA, if the court so considers it necessary to shed light on a particular crime. According to the Personality Data Protection Act, any citizen of Serbia can contact the competent state authority, in this case to the MUP, who will ask the court to delete from each person's DNA register, and for which there is no longer a need for his DNA profile to be in our records. It's important to me that people know. So it's kind of an international convention that exists on EU territory and we stick to it. Only take that partial DNA profile that's needed to perform facial identification. So you're not taking a complete DNA profile that would talk about certain traits of that personality, about some possibly hereditary diseases, about anything. So it's just taking that partial part of the profile that it takes to identify the person without any doubt, that we can say reliably that it's about that and that person. So, I agree that this is a newspaper so far, although the MUP lab is the only essentially accredited and has all the standards that exist at the level of the world, the most serious laboratory where it very precisely defines the possibility of accessing who, in which way, when, under surveillance, every access to the lab is registered. So, we've taken this very seriously, and it's precisely not to have any malfeasance or that anyone can influence it in any way. However, the work itself in collecting DNA samples has always been problematic, because so far, until this law, this is a relatively messy area and not just with us. We're trying and I'm not sure it'll always be at the first moment... It's always in practice to show what solutions are, which will be better and better, but the key goal is to always have enough opportunities to protect citizens in criminal proceedings, or to protect those who could potentially be blamed, and that they are not. So the presuppension of innocence in that sense must be protected, but to protect those who are guilty, and they left a DNA trail on the scene, it's actually easier for us to bring them to justice faster. As far as the Asylum Office is concerned, the asylum procedure is essentially two degrees. So that's what's good. The asylum office itself, located in the MUP, shall, in the first instance, take a decision on the basis of all relevant information submitted by the asylum seeker. There's a difference between the Asylum Office and other institutions. Let's say, the Foreign Office that deals with those foreigners who are not asylum seekers or asylum seekers, when they stop being asylum seekers after the passage of time or rejection by two degrees. The Foreign Administration shall then take over the work with them and shall continue to act in accordance with its competences. As far as the asylum office itself is concerned, we formed it in 2015, if I recall correctly. In 2015, when it was the biggest migration strike against the Republic of Serbia, with a modest one, I think it has a very small number of employees, I don't know exactly how many, 18 employees have at this time, went through the country and a half, although I say that most of these people didn't ask for asylum, but it's a large number of those who express their intention, and you have to process certain documentation. Of course, we'll look for ways to optimise. Fortunately, all these people work within the MUP and their deployment can be, unless there is a need for their intensive engagement in one sector, they can be transferred by reference, or by other means, competition, to some of the other sectors of the MUP. In any case, I want you to know that the Commission, which, after the Asylum Office, has the opportunity to modify the decision or return to a re-determination of the first-degree body. So that's the kind of protection you were talking about. These people don't always have to be right, but that's why in two degrees we're trying to look at all the other circumstances that could make a different decision in terms of granting or refusing asylum. Well, I hope I've been able to clear up this story of DNA and asylum for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29050	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29051	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable ministers with co-workers from the MUP, dear and respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, in this time intended to discuss these 10 proposed legislative solutions at the outset, will stress that the MPs of the SDPS in the voting day will support the proposed law and amendments to the laws that we are discussing today. In my address, since the time of 20 minutes, unfortunately, is still not enough to process all 10 proposed laws complexly, I will point out the importance of several legal solutions that we are considering today, but I will also point out the potential problems that individual laws can bring about in their realisation, or implementation, where we have provided for a number of amendments to try to fix the proposed text of the law. As far as the proposal for a law on foreigners is concerned, the reasons for the adoption of this law are understandable and it is evident that, as a result of economic growth and the improvement of the business environment, Serbia is becoming more attractive to foreign citizens. On different grounds, they are increasingly coming and staying in our country longer and longer. The most common reasons are work and employment, exchange of students, tourist visits, co-operation between companies and their representatives, treatment and the like. The adoption of the Foreign Law also stems from our obligation and the need to bring our legislation in line with European, or in accordance with Chapter 24 in the migration work. The draft law sets out provisions relating to the area of legal migration, as well as the measures to prevent illegal migration, i.e. the conditions for entry, movement, stay and return of foreigners, as well as the competence of the authorities who decide to do so. According to this proposal, a foreigner in Serbia can stay for a short period of 90 days. A temporary stay of up to one year, which can be extended to the same period... A permanent residence permit can be granted to a foreigner who has been in Serbia for over five years and based on a temporary stay permit. It is good that this bill recognises specific cases in which a stranger can be granted permanent residence. This is the case when permanent accommodation is approved on the basis of a marriage or non-marriage community with a citizen of the Republic of Serbia or a foreigner who is granted permanent residence, then a minor who is on temporary stay in the Republic of Serbia. As far as illegal migration is concerned, the law contains provisions to prevent illegal entry and stay in Serbia's territory, which is due to the entry into Serbia outside the place set for the crossing of the state border, so avoiding border control, entering without a travel document or other documents, or using a false travel document, etc. It is important to point out that this law, as well as the next law on asylum and temporary protection, recognises, which is very important for us from the SDPS, sensitive categories according to which special measures and derogations from the usual procedure apply, and in order to protect them better, given the specific position in which they are located. In addition to persons with disabilities, old faces, single parents, pregnant women, it is especially important that the law recognizes the victims of domestic violence and victims of human trafficking, or foreigners who are presumed to be victims of human trafficking. In the event that a person is suspected of being a victim of human trafficking, such a person may be granted a temporary stay for up to 90 days without fulfilling the general conditions laid down by law. During the duration of the temporary stay, they shall be able to recover, safety and protection, accommodation, psychological and material assistance, access to emergency medical care, etc. It is important that there is a coordination of competent authorities throughout this process, namely custody authorities, police and bodies for the identification and coordination of victims of human trafficking. It's what characterizes the entire text of the law. It is clear that the legislator's wish to make the decision-making process of the foreigner's request faster and more effective, to make coordination of the competent authorities more effective, taking into account the protection and security of the Serbian state. The law also contains other provisions such as visas, shelters for foreigners, the movement of foreigners in uniform, as well as a number of new legal solutions, such as temporary stay for humanitarian reasons and so on. As far as the asylum and temporary protection laws are concerned, we have an existing law since 2008. It has been applied for ten years, although it is in line with the 1951 Geneva Convention, and to a significant extent with EU directives, the law contains individual solutions that have not been comprehensively and precisely defined, leading to certain problems in application and opening up opportunities for abuses. That is why, the reason for the adoption of this law on asylum and temporary protection is that the asylum procedure in EU countries is, and we are candidates for EU membership, unified, i.e. the minimum rights and obligations of asylum seekers in all Member States. That is why Serbia, as a country in the EU accession process, also had an obligation to comply with the minimum of these rights. Here, above all, is thought of EU directives, which prescribe standards, which relate to the content of rights and obligations of approved protection. By bringing Serbia closer to the EU, and starting from our geographical position, Serbia has become very interested in migrants, not setting out whether they intend to stay here or not, they are only passing towards EU countries. As a state, we have convinced ourselves best in the past few years because of the huge and increased flow of migrants from Africa and Asia. As a region surrounded by EU member states, the Western Balkans is mostly a transit area for migration flows. The Western-Balkan famous route has mostly been in the post of transit flows of these migrants entering EU territory across the Greek-Turkish border and moving on towards the state of Europe. The Republic of Serbia has found itself on a route of migrants entering primarily from Macedonia's territory, but also from Bulgaria's territory and crossing our territory to continue the path to the EU. Although basically a transit country, by retaining migrants in Serbia's territory, has become longer due to the closure of the Western-Balkan route. Thus, the state of Serbia is making efforts to meet all standards on the protection of migrants. Since the beginning of the migrant crisis, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown and chosen a proactive and human approach and shown and proved, I would say, a willingness to face within the limits of its capabilities the situation of a large inflow of migrants. At the same time, efforts to strengthen border control and prevent the criminal activities of smugglers and traffickers appear. The fact is that a significantly greater number of migrants who have entered our country have shown their intention to seek asylum than they have actually entered asylum procedures. This information may seem strange, but it says that they have no real intention, we heard it from Minister Stefanovic, to stay with Serbia, but they are using the procedure in force to avoid responsibility for illegal entry or illegal stay in our country, in order to go to EU member states as soon as possible. By this law, such and similar problems will be solved. Namely, the Asylum Act and the temporary protection on the one hand, will ensure that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29052	I think there's something wrong with the electronic system. Ask for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29053	... Thank you. Namely, the Asylum Act, on the one hand, will ensure that the Constitution of a guaranteed right to shelter foreigners who cannot return to their country because of legitimate fear of persecution, because of their race, gender, language or religion. Also, subsidiary protection is provided for persons who are not in that situation, but if there are justified reasons, which indicate that by returning to their country they will face the real risk of suffering serious injustice. What is important is that the law very precisely regulates the causes of persecution, acts that are considered persecution and other facts and circumstances that the competent authorities need to determine when deciding on an asylum application. On the other hand, the law accurately lays down the obligations of asylum seekers and persons granted the right to asylum and temporary protection. Reasons for shortening the right to shelter or subsidiary protection, the possibility of restricting movement in cases of infringement of certain provisions. As a result, there is no doubt that there is a need for us as a National Assembly to adopt this Law on Asylum on Temporary Protection. This law will make the asylum process faster and more effective, but it will prevent the abuses that existed in its current application. What is important is that when defining legal solutions, it was meant that the right to shelter falls under basic human law and that special attention was given to special sensitive groups in law. The asylum law is in full compliance with international standards, it is precise and comprehensive and its application will improve the asylum process. In order to improve certain provisions, we have proposed certain amendments which I would only single out three of these at this time. Namely, the amendment to ensure that underage persons singled out from parents are equal to unaccompanied minors in terms of guaranteed standards and to introduce concepts - Citizens' Associations instead of civil society organisations, as well as to equalise family members, beneficiaries of international protection and users of rights protection. As for the proposal for a law on the recording and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, I would remind you that protecting personal data is one of the human rights and freedoms that we have guaranteed our citizens with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Although this area is regulated by roof law, the Personal Data Protection Act, it is a relatively new law and we still face a number of challenges in order to protect it completely. One law is impossible to cover all areas where public authorities collect and process personality data. The right to the protection of personal data is also of paramount importance in the process of our country and the accession of the EU, hence the obligation of Serbia, as members of the Council of Europe, to bring its legislation in line with Article 8. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which provides, I quote, “everyone has the right to respect his private, family life, home and correspondence. Public authorities will not interfere with the exercise of this right unless it is in accordance with the law and necessary democratic society in the interests of national security and public security or the economic well-being of the country in order to prevent riots and crime, to protect health or morals or to protect the rights and freedoms of others," Serbia signed, and ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Data Processing. The interior ministry is responsible for collecting and processing a large number of personality data from both Serbian and foreign citizens. This authority, as well as the processing process itself, is sometimes governed by a special law in the field of internal affairs, but that's not always the case. There are certain areas where the Ministry collects and process personal data based on sublegal acts brought in and on the basis of the powers laid down in the law. It is about laws that were in force before the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as before the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Article 42. The Constitution is prescribed that the collection, holding, processing, use of personality data is regulated by law. Therefore, it cannot be the subject of a sublegal act. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 in which the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, which speak of sublaws, or other regulations governing issues in the field of collection and processing of personal data, are not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're on our way to DNA registry. This law is based on the previous law because it speaks of also one of the significant human rights. What's the paper is that this is the law that first appears as something that will tomorrow be a practice in the legal practice of our Republic of Serbia. What I want to point out when it comes to this law is those remarks that I made at the very beginning. Of course, during the public debate, which took place in October two years and later, a whole series of expert teams from lawyers, biologists, the Commissioner for Public Information, responsible representatives of the MUP led controversy and there were a lot of objections. I'd point out some illogicalities I'm going to share with you now. I think this law is restrictive because it requires DNA labs to meet the 17025 standard. I'll remind you, however, this standard has no state or university institution. She's not even BIA. The standard does not say anything about the quality of the analyses done, nor whether these analyses are accurate and cost 10,000 euros. This law in some way prevents the court from using analysis done in laboratories at state colleges in Belgrade and Novi Sad, as well as the Faculty of Biology in Belgrade. The bill, that's what our biggest remark is, does not foresee any measure to prevent its abuse, and it is an even bigger problem that there are no mechanisms in the law that would allow someone who enters the register once and proves that he is innocent, from it is deleted. The law did not specify exactly the conditions under which the entry, use and erasure of data contained in the register is carried out, nor does there be any difference between the processing of data on suspects for the execution of a criminal offence or against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted, on the one hand, as well as those damaged in the execution of a particular offence, which are victims on the other hand. The law stipulates that genetic material should not be used, however, the bill does not say how to use it beyond the usual purpose, which means that it can also be misused. All DNA labs are required under this law to deliver to that, if I can call it that, the source database of my DNA results, which are collected in criminal proceedings, but nowhere is it foreseen what happens to the genetic material that was taken into the criminal proceedings, where the defendants are cleared of the charges. As far as the Single Parentity Act is concerned, the basic objective of this law is to update existing records, and this is nothing more controversial than to equate the data that are listed in real-state bases, which is of paramount importance, both for the exercise of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the more effective treatment of state authorities and their competences. Legal solutions under this law will contribute to updating and keeping accurate records of citizens, and will also be the basis for electronic administration and its more efficient work. The very reform of public administration in the Republic of Serbia, the development of electronic services, aims to enable citizens to exercise their rights in a faster and simpler way, both on personal documents and on a body of other rights guaranteeing the Constitution and the law. This law prescribes that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are enrolled in the birth certificate have a certain home number, which is to be entered into the records of the MUP and other state bodies. These are, above all, citizens who came from the former republics of the SFRY, because they solve their problems that they have encountered in practice, because they have had really big problems so far. As for the improvement of status, this law promotes, above all, the status of so-called. legally invisible persons and those who are Roma nationalities, who are subsequently enrolled in the birth certificates. With the very fact that they are registered in the birth certificates, they will now have the opportunity to determine their home number, which would be entered in the records of the state authorities, and on the basis of it they can also exercise other rights provided for by law. The Law on Supplements to Citizenship - the aim of the proposed changes and additions is to create a legal basis for keeping and keeping records of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a centralised register, to allow for obtaining Serbian citizenship under reduced conditions for persons who have not applied for the issue of biometric ID cards and who have owned permanent tickets. Centralised keeping of records on Serbian citizens will improve the level of efficiency, level of practice, and save time and human resources from state authorities. The second goal is to enable the acquisition of Serbia's citizenship under facilitated circumstances for persons who owned permanent ID cards, but did not humbly apply for the issue of a biometric ID card, believing that they were not required to do so. It is about old people who had the citizenship of the SFRY, or citizenship from some of the former Yugoslav republics. Finally, as regards the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Police and the Law on Changes of Public Order and Peace, let me just repeat what the Minister also stressed in his opening presentation – preserving life is a priority and the goal of several of these envisaged laws and predicting stricter penalties is something that we from the Social Democratic Party, in any case, support through these changes. It is particularly important that the need to protect children in traffic and increase the responsibility of those driving them is highlighted. Also, the conditions for obtaining a driver's license for young people, until they gain experience, penalties for alcohol, some other penalties concerning sanctions policy against those who violate public order and peace, are nothing more than an aggravation, and I think that's something that we can all support, whether we belong to this or that political option. I thank you once again for the attention and MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all proposed amendments to the law in the voting day, and, of course, we will also talk in particular about the amendments we have submitted to several of these laws. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29054	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29055	Thank you. I'm just going to try to avoid Mr. Omerovic's suspicions about the DNA registry bill. I understood his remarks, since they're absolutely identical to the ones the Commissioner gave us. So the base to be established is established within two years. We now have a situation that, if I may say so, seven private laboratories work. These laboratories did not meet certain conditions, i.e. they did not meet certain standards and they did not object to such a standard, high standard, regulation, but in order to protect the criminal procedure, we asked that the MIP reference laboratories, which only have that type of standard, send those samples to verification, or simply verify whether the sample was done in accordance with the law and whether it could be properly used in criminal proceedings. In the next two years, we'll have a deadline to get through the sublegal acts that the Ministry will bring, offices and some of these issues we've talked about, which can't be the subject of the law, but also two years to reach certain standards that will help. Of course, we no longer need to double the controls, but, of course, only eventually with the court's request. And what's very important is that people understand the pattern that we're talking about here is only about criminal investigations. So this is a criminal procedure, these are not DNA samples used for any other civilian purpose, paternity or anything like that, unless the establishment of paternity is related to a criminal procedure. So, in criminal proceedings, the court gives a warrant to take the DNA profile, the partial one, which I was already talking about, so the court gives a warrant and if you want to delete, we need to contact the court, that the court gives approval after the court's approval, and now it's possible to delete for the persons found, let's say, not guilty of any crime, and that there's no need to keep his DNA profile in the database. So there are very few people available to do so. It is precisely registered when any of them access any of the samples, which is why, under supervision, therefore, absolutely reduced the possibility of any abuse, and trust that this will be done in accordance with the highest standards that exist in Europe. So far, unfortunately, this has been absolutely unsettled matter, this part, this segment. We are doing business today, without this law, if we hadn't passed it now, we have acted with much less regulation and it has been quite messy compared to what this law is about. If we're going to have any promotions, I believe that sublegal acts will also put an additional element of order into this, so we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29056	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29058	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I welcome Mr. Secretary and all his associates. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, this set of laws that are before us, of them 10 six are the bill's proposals, and four are amended and complemented. It's important to me, because all 10 are laws that regulate some segment of security, and the MUP and the police are carriers of their implementation, their application and realization, somewhere less, somewhere more, and somewhere absolutely dominant. Of course, the law on police matters only to the police. In the context of these laws and everything that has been prepared through or only the MUP has done, I see it in this function from the function of the basic pillar of the criminal and intelligence system as part of national security. I therefore think that this set of 10 laws makes a significant contribution to the improvement and necessary innovation of the national security strategy, because the new conditions and circumstances really dictate, and I think that in the last two years we have often mentioned it, and I think that now finally it has joined the formed commission, etc. So they dictate an amendment to the National Security Strategy, or its addition, given that conditions and circumstances are substantially changing. We have witnessed this both this year and last year in relation to the conditions and circumstances when we brought this existing National Security Strategy. We have, just a few things to list from these circumstances, we have a far more inexplicable and more potent state-level neutrality of the country and a tendency to a policy of neutrality. We've been having significant reconstructions in the international community lately. In this context, we have a strengthening of the world's great relations. We have regional boiling and bleeding in the region. We'd say a new status of Serbia on the international scene, etc. I think these are all the circumstances that require and require our reconstruction as a state within a complete and complex system of national security. That is why I think it is very important and that there is a clear need to review the organisation, structure, functions and synergies of the basic national security institutions, such as the security-intelligence system, such as the control-intelligence system and protection, as well as the information system, etc. When all of this comes to mind, the importance of this not-so-slight number of innovations or the adoption of brand-new safety laws ahead of us can only be seen. It's important in this, and it concerns these laws, which if we're setting up a new national security strategy, we also need to review the criteria for determining national security carriers. Unity must be reconsidered in the functioning of some and sometimes all national security holders. It must be reconsidered the need to centralise certain segments of action, especially when security services are concerned, the return of the work of certain services, especially intelligence, which previously existed, which we have abolished, and most of the world is not. I'm talking about intelligence through the diplomatic, or the foreign ministry. All this in general when looked at, I see these ten laws as the beginning of a review of it if not the most important absolutely, then among the two or three most important issues on the state's agenda and on the future of this country. In this set of ten-piece laws, that's kind of what I said, it's very important to me, if not the most significant, this law on police, or its changes and additions. What do I see in meaning? The improvement of the rules in this area, in the area of organisation and the functioning of police, is very important from the aspect of strengthening security institutions, which is thus strengthened in the function of curbing corruption and organised crime, for which this government has initially identified and expressed never stronger and stronger political will to oppose corruption and organised crime since it entered the scene. So I think that the efforts made by the Ministry of Interior and the police, of course, by the government, by adopting this law are the principles of a strong one process, the necessary process, the necessary, the necessary life, for this country to strengthen and fully heal the institutions that should be in the first place, if not in many and exclusively to fight corruption and organised crime. Because you can't bring the world's most famous surgeon to perform an operation here and give him hygienic raw instruments. In this case, the operation against organised crime and corruption is in the hands of these institutions. Through these ten laws, I see a strong commitment and a need to be the Ministry, and we also feel that in the Committee on Defence and Home Policy, because we have ministers coming regularly, including the Minister of Police to those meetings. These efforts by the Ministry of the Interior to be in this way and organisationally and however you want, in any other way, not to mention technical and technological equipment, not to speak of personnel, not to speak of very significant, I would say, a special institution within the Ministry of the Interior, which is internal control, if anywhere it has any significance, then it has within that ministry. I think that here in these amendments and additions to the Law on the Police are very, very advanced many things that will give far, far more quality work and more efficient and better results of this internal control within internal affairs. It is very important that this law, these amendments, for me it is almost a new law because there are so many amendments and additions, that they have all been studied so well and each of them improved by their own quality by a complete law and thus made it possible for the ministry to develop, I would divide here into two very important, eclative groups of issues which this law has addressed. This is, on the one hand, a far better organisation, structure and achievement of the functions of the Ministry of the Interior, a stronger incentive for the obligations of police officers, but also for all employees who are completely and drastically different from what is required by all other citizens in the performance of their affairs, but therefore it has been done, on the other hand, countless improvements, and it has to be enjoyed by every honest man, improvements in the field of humanitarian towards employees and holders and perpetrators of the affairs of the Ministry of Interior and Police, meeting their maximum from health to social, family needs and strong support for the achievement of their rights, not as ordinary citizens, but their rights in the functions of jobs and duties they perform and how important they are to the welfare of the citizens of this country. Therefore, the law is fully protected, especially when it comes to members of internal control, especially in those segments and members who treat the integrity test, then analysis of the risk of corruption, checking the property situation, etc., where their human rights are maximum respected. It's a great quality of this law. So I think that this law is one of the rare examples lately, here since I've been sitting in the Assembly, which is so concise, and completely and complexly looked at all the problems and never forgotten any side of the problem because of the need to solve the other side of the problem. That's why I'm thinking and confessing to whoever was doing this law and I'm doing it on my own, and we're also supporting the PUPS Group, both him and all these 10 laws on both hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29059	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29060	Dear fellow Members of the people, honored guests, respected citizens of Serbia, we are attending another session that is on the very edge of regularity, or rather not regularity, and on a number of grounds. I will mention, for example, the schedule of the session, how logical it is that after three months of failure of the Assembly, the session is convened by an emergency procedure and that numerous agenda points are placed here by emergency procedure. How urgent something can be when you haven't worked for three months, and I'm going to mention the traditional merger of agenda points. Just to show how much material we have here at one point in the agenda. This is all material and not all material for just one item on the agenda. These aren't some novels or magazines that we just need to review, so we're going to remember some of it or we won't remember, these are laws that and how they affect every citizen's life of Serbia, and I'm saying that we're bringing them here irresponsiblely, that we're holding them together, because how do we explain that, in this situation when we're discussing only one item of the agenda, a number of important laws, let's say, I, as an authorised representative of the group, have 20 minutes to talk about it today, and if I were to share it on those 32 points of the agenda, it would turn out that I have time for one item of the agenda for about 37 seconds. You say, is it enough 37 seconds for you to say something meaningful about any of these laws? I apologize to my dear colleagues, if they'd be kind enough to listen to me. So this kind of billing creates legal chaos, here we're talking about some kind of evening of court practice, etc. No one can even the case-law when we daily pass laws that are often with each other in college, and how good those laws that are passed in this way are also the fact that we adopted the Police Act two years ago, and now we're adopting a new one, but later we're going to say something more. Of course, Serbian citizens do not have time and opportunity to deal with a detailed analysis of the law. They chose us to do it, and if we can do it seriously in these conditions, I really doubt it, but despite these constant attempts to be something that is irregular and something that is in an emergency procedure and something that is extremely regular. We'll never get used to it, and every time we do, we'll say that's not how it's supposed to be done. Now let me use this time of my own to say something about these laws individually. Of course, there's nothing left for me but to just touch some of the points in these laws, so let's just say, of course, that each of these laws, which I've already said, deserves and how serious the debate is, but here, I'm going to mention some of the items that are controversial here. I'd like to mention the draft law on border control. This law does not mean respect for reciprocity in relation to neighbouring countries. I think that every citizen of Serbia who has crossed the border of any state has had the opportunity to make sure that we are not treated equally and that never the border control is equal for our citizens and for citizens, say, neighbouring states. You can see that very easily. Nor is control the same for the faces of the vehicle, let's say for the trucks, etc. And as much as our politicians take pictures and shake hands with some other statesmen, we will know that we are equal to the citizens of those countries when we cross their borders in the same way they cross our borders. What makes it happen, for example? When you enter Hungary and wait in line to get out of the country as you are very often waiting, you can simply make sure that the Hungarian customs officer opens every car crossing the border. Why aren't our customs officers doing this? It's just about equality, about reciprocity. We also know that control and control of their vehicles and trucks are not allowed, for example, as is controlled by theirs. Which is why the problem is simply being equal, and not to say that, say, citizens of some countries can enter our country with a personal card, and as far as we can get with our ID cards, I'm very interested. So when it is equal, then we will be able to talk about being equal with other citizens. There are some of the formulations here too, but I won't hold back too much on it, because there are a lot of laws to be talked about here. In fact, in this set of laws, we have several laws that have data, these laws that are controversial in terms of processing and availability of various data. There is a proposal for a law on the recording and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, there is a bill on the national DNA register, a unique home number of citizens. We know that both the Commissioner for Information and the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens have had numerous objections to these laws, but most of these remarks are not respected. Why aren't they respected? I think it would be very important to talk about it today and discuss each of these issues very closely. Unfortunately, I don't think that's going to happen, but it's our duty here to bring out what can be disputed here, and that's really a lot. For example, in the proposal for a law on the recording and processing of data in the field of internal affairs, Article 9(3) provides for the possibility that data from records should also be provided to natural persons on the basis of a reasoned written request containing, for example, data on the applicant, the precise purpose of the use of data, legal basis and species, etc. The possibility that a natural person is looking for such data should at least be clearly defined under what conditions a natural person may seek such data and what are the purposes of using it, that a natural person may receive such data. Let's say, when it comes to the National DNA registry bill, I've already said that trustees and the Citizens' Protector had objections to these laws, so let's say, we all know that DNA analysis can reveal a huge number of personality data including the most sensitive ones. Why am I saying this? All these data would have to be very clear, they would have to be clearly classified, or the way to use any of them. That's not clear enough in these laws. These issues will remain very controversial and the abuse of each of these data could cause extremely serious consequences. I think it's not seriously accessible to these laws, and I think it should be much clearer. For example, there is no precise definition of the conditions under which the entry, use and erasure of data contained in the register is conducted or there is a difference between the processing of data on persons suspected of committing a crime and victims of these crimes on the other hand. Also, no time-limits for keeping data in the National DNA registry have been specified, but there is no difference between suspects, accused, convicted or released. So this is a big one zone of disputed solutions, and I hope they do, however, that some of the amendments will be submitted and there will be opportunities to fix this. It is also known that the law on a single relationship, that the unique home number of citizens contains extremely sensitive data about each citizen. There was a suggestion that this unique number of citizens should be formulated differently, so that it cannot reveal all this data. That might be a good solution. However, as it is formulated, it should be much more serious to think about who and how and under what conditions there will be both available and unique home numbers of citizens. Also, what many have pointed to, it's a controversial provision on the passiveization of this number. It's not clear enough what's going to happen to a passive number, it's not clear enough whether that number is going to cancel out. There are a lot of members, here in dispute with some vague notions. All this should be resolved in detail and I hope there are more options before this law is passed, to resolve these issues. When it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Well, I already said the new law was passed in 2016. Since there is a minister present, I will remind and quote what the minister said on that occasion. So, just two years ago, the minister claimed that I would quote -- "and thanks to the adoption of this law, the fight against all the leaders of crime and corruption will be strengthened as well as that no one who commits any crime will protect either the party's book or the friendly relationship, and that the vast number of people in the police are honest and honest and wants to do their job." We believe that a huge number of people are honest and honest and want to do their job right. However, as possible, if we had expected so much from this law that he had already been after two years, it would be necessary to change. What is controversial about these changes is that they will allow the minister to suspend the recruitment process through the contest to determine who will be admitted to the employment relationship. We know that there are controversial provisions on suspension and on establishing a working relationship that no longer covers the criteria of health, psychological and physical abilities and skills criteria, but is required that the candidate fulfils the conditions laid down in the systemisation rule that we do not yet know what it will look like. Also, changes to the Law on Police could allow for security changes in the wider circle of citizens, which is very controversial and can cause the same serious consequences. The employees will be reduced or some rights abolished. All in all, when we look at all these changes, they show that they will contribute to the centralization of power in the hands of the minister and represent a concentration of power and party policing, so that it can be used for these purposes. Because of all this, I'm asking for the most serious review of these provisions. Also, in Article 43, and now talks about concrete amendments to the Police Act, it is said that, after Article 173, Article 173a adds that more details are not precisely defined. I don't understand what special conditions that can stop a working relationship. We can't accept these formulas that are completely indeterminate. Therefore, there is no arbitrary determination of anyone who can be that, even if the minister himself, who will make an arbitrary determination. However, the law on police and these other laws will tell you more about my fellow MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29061	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29062	Unfortunately, there have been a lot of flat-rate claims here, which are mostly not true, but now I'm going to explain to you what they're made of. So the essence of the things that have been made, which do not correspond at all to what is written in the law itself, and apparently that people do not read exactly what was written in the previous law and what is changed in this law, so this is, but I will now explain every thing to you in detail. First of all, when we talk about reciprocity. Reciprocity can only be sought in the visa regime and this is done by the Republic of Serbia, where our interest exists. As far as border control is concerned, no, because it's a matter of internal legislation. So, we prescribe border control. With border control, I don't know what the police have to do with the control of the truck when it's a thing. What does that have to do with you talking about truck control, what does that have to do with any of these laws, which are on the agenda today or even with the M.O.P.? I don't understand it at all, because it doesn't matter most of the time. It just doesn't fit anything that's written here. Also, as far as reciprocity, I.D.'s are concerned. Of course our citizens can enter Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia with a ID card, as can citizens of these countries and only citizens of those countries can enter us and our citizens can enter only those countries with a ID card. So total reciprocity. I don't know where you found someone coming in without us coming in. Greece can enter with a passport, a Greek citizen can come to our airport, can EU citizens with a special document issued by the EU, that's fine. But that's why we have visa liberalisation, so Serbia doesn't need to have a visa to join the EU. It's our country's interest. So we're looking at what's our country's interest. As for the objections that have been made here to these laws by different public authorities, we have included some of these objections in the text of these laws. The Guardian of the Citizens sent us certain objections and we accepted them, I mean almost everything. We accepted, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information from Public Meaning, we accepted some of his remarks, some of which we didn't, but it wasn't their objection to the Holy Scriptures. What they say as a remark that we now have to accept at any cost, then it wouldn't make sense that anyone other than those bodies is proposing laws, then they should propose all laws, not us or the MPs as bearers of such opportunities. As far as the DNA profile is concerned. DNA profiles, therefore, according to the Criminal Procedure Act, and he says the following - taking samples for forensic-genetic analysis, so if necessary for the purpose of detecting the perpetrator of criminal offences or establishing other facts in the proceedings, the public prosecutor or the court may order the sampling, for forensic-genetic analysis from the scene of the crime and other places where there are traces of the crime from the defendant and the damaged, under the conditions provided for in Article 141(2) and of other persons, if there are one or more characteristics which bring them in connection with the criminal offence. I have to tell you one more time, even though I said in the previous part, it won't be hard to repeat as many times as it takes, you don't take a complete DNA profile when you say you can reveal the most sensitive data through the DNA profile. You take a partial DNA profile, enough to identify you and nothing else. They won't take it if you have any genetic anomalies in your DNA code, it's not taken. All you take is that piece you need to be precisely defined whether you're that person or not. We just need positive identification and nothing more, but again I say by order of the court in the way that the Code of Criminal Procedure in Labs, first of all in a laboratory that is referenced and by law, there's only one reference laboratory that has all the certificates, it exists, it's a MUP lab and it's quite enough. No other lab has to, but only one containing the base, the central register, it has to have certain standards, and seven private laboratories that normally operate or I say, operate on our territory, don't have to have that standard. They compare their sample in our reference laboratory and determine whether the sample was completely correct. So, absolutely everything is defined. It's just an element to define. And we can also talk about, let me say, there's no clear measure because it's the court that orders you to take a DNA profile, and the M.O.P. can't in itself order you to delete it. So, a citizen can talk to us and we can talk to the court. If the court orders an expropriation, we delete and that's the way it's covered. There's a mechanism. So it's not messy. Is he complex? Maybe you should think about other models, but at this point this model fully meets the principle of protecting those people who are looking to erase their DNA profile from a possible central base. As for the change in the system of unique parent numbers, we have analyzed how much money that would require, and that would be huge money that would be needed to change the whole system differently, to say, markings or to say in such a way that the data on citizens would be collected, where their registration through this number would be defined. Imagine how much it would take to get rid of it in the pension system? So a huge amount of money would be needed to completely move on to another system, where we're not the only ones with this kind of system. So we have a lot of countries holding this system, and so far this system is giving solid results. So we don't have too many problems with that. As for the results, of course, I said back then, in 2016, that after the law was passed, we would have the opportunity to see seriously better results. In the previous year, 2017, we have 4.1 tons of seized narcotics. Among other things, 84 crimes of murder. Absolutely the smallest number of murders back 20 years and absolutely the largest number of drug seizures in the last 20 years. Why is it changing? We've noticed that some things can be more effective. Of course, I'm not ashamed. I told you about every law I proposed, the law isn't there to write, so it takes a thousand years to stand. That's what we tried. We had already had the opportunity to see these laws adopted in the 1970s and 1980s, so they were not changed, so there was a collapse because of them. Of course we should change whenever we see it. After all, the world is changing faster today than it was 30 years ago. In 2008, you had 77 migrants who passed through Serbia, in 2015 had 15 thousand a day. Of course it required certain changes. You can't say - we wrote this, we should never change it again. I don't think change is bad. After all, the change of laws is not decided by the minister, but by the National Assembly. We delivered these laws, some even in August of the previous year. We did the job in a way that there was a public debate in all major cities. We have consulted all relevant institutions. We have absolutely respected all procedures, directed the EU, received agreement on each of these legal solutions. The National Assembly decides whether you adopt it or not. If the National Assembly adopts it, this proposal will become a law and then everyone has to respect it, if it doesn't adopt it, it won't adopt it, and that's it. So the minister can't determine that. As far as authority is concerned, I am absolutely the first to restrict in modern history significant powers by law, or any subsequent minister under this law, significant restrictions. In the previous Police Act, the minister could have ordered a pre-taste procedure by 2016. The minister could have been involved in the investigation. He could've done it. He could have taken a partial role as a prosecutor. The new law absolutely can't. There's absolutely nothing to do with the investigation. The difference between the role of director and minister is clearly defined. As for employment, clearly defined how to get into the police. The only thing we've singled out are the persons in the deficits, because I can't tell you that I can receive someone who's an informer, who's going to have two or three thousand euros in the bank, I'm going to take him to work for 60 or 70 thousand dinars and he'll be happy to work. It's just that we have to find mechanisms to do it in deficits. There are different models that we predicted. What I'm trying to tell you is that you look at this law and look at what the law looked like by 2016. Look at the difference. It's a dramatic difference. It's dramatic with all the other laws. Finally, the MUP is one of the state authorities, one of the authorities of the administrations that has most effectively regulated many areas in electronic data exchange. Look at what we're doing about providing electronic services to citizens. A small number of the country's institutions can be praised for such a level of efficiency and width includes information that we exchange under the largest protection system. I absolutely agree that we've passed a good law. So in 2016, we passed a good law that showed some weaknesses in certain areas and we changed it in a small percentage. For example, in the Law on Public Order and Peace, we are changing a member, and for months there has been a law in the congregation. He could look at it, read it, write thousands and thousands of amendments. He could have done whatever he wanted. This is what some MPs used, of course, and it is the right of every MP. We will accept from the number of amendments that have been submitted a number of amendments. We have already considered some amendments that correct the text of the law and as I have done. After all, I was an MP for this assembly and I accept good legal solutions. Why wouldn't I? It is in my best interest that the law is as good as possible, as clean as possible, to accept it as many MPs as possible. It's in the interests of the minister. This law and these changes that we're making are improving the model so far, and I'd be sorry to say that for formal reasons, that's why I'm pushing the cap. I passed the law in 2016, while I'm the minister won't change so I can say that those laws I've passed won't change. Why? We'll do better. We'll do better. The traffic safety law, if the amendments and additions to that law, the adoption of a new law next year or those there, improve traffic safety, we will bring and I will propose every month if each change contributes to a better life of citizens and if we are going to save some life. We have a serious, good result. We have a drop in the death toll year by year, still a huge number. In the 1990s, 2,000 people died in Serbia, and today it's between 560 and 580 a year. It's still a huge number, but that's what we have to do, and that's what we do. That's why we introduced the class to school. We teach kids in first, fourth and sixth grade about basics of safety. We're talking to our parents. We trained two thousand police officers to go to school to talk to children, teach them, but also to teach parents what measures should be taken. So, absolutely, the Ministry is trying to raise the level of security and that results. Whether someone wants to accept it or not, it's very clear. After all, citizens see it, and it's known that citizens are very easy and judge it, and they always show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29063	You have no right to a replica, colleague. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29064	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not correct that during today's debate some colleagues say, quote, we must criticise because we are the opposition. Personally, I think that the opposition and the people who are in position when serious laws are passed, and they make sense, can help each other. Of course, if there is a situation in which to criticise it is the right of every MP, especially the opposition, but if we have laws that are like those that are on the agenda today, such good laws, eventually someone can fix them, it's time to submit the amendment. We from the JS today, although we think these are good laws, have submitted certain amendments to which we want these laws to be even better. Regardless of the fact that most of these laws are simple to comply with EU rules, the fact is that they are all useful to Serbian citizens and that certainly after the adoption of all these laws, Serbian citizens become both safer and safer. Today, it is important to repeat at least briefly each of the laws so that citizens who follow the work of this Assembly at the end of the small screens would be familiar with what it is that we are talking about here today and that at least briefly they can create an image of what laws are and what legal solutions are. The first in line is the proposal for a law on foreigners. The main goal of the adoption of foreign law is to improve the national system in the area of legal and regular migration, to define more precisely the rights and obligations of foreign citizens entering, staying and moving across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the goal achieved by passing laws is to bring national legislation into line in the field of legal and regulatory migration with EU directives governing these areas. The second is the proposal for a law on asylum and temporary protection. Most importantly, citizens know that one of the main problems in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is the abuse of the right to asylum. Expressing their intention to seek asylum, migrants avoid criminal responsibility for illegally crossing the state border or illegal residence, legalising their movement across the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the next 72 hours. This law, of course, solves this problem. Third is the Law on Border Control, an existing legal framework for the protection of the state border due to the flow of time, it is necessary to innovate and further comply with the legal flows of the EU, and this Law on Border Control is governed by the area of border control by binding EU rules. The fourth is the Law on the Recording and Processing of Data in Internal Affairs. The basic objective of the law on the records and processing of data in the field of internal affairs is to ensure that each individual is protected by personal data for the purpose of the smooth exercise of the right to privacy and other rights and freedoms. This law should establish a clear legal framework for the processing of personal data, in the field of internal affairs, for the purposes of the processing of personality data, the rights of persons whose data are processed, the exchange of personal data, video surveillance and records kept in this ministry. The fifth order of the bill is about the national DNA register. The adoption of this law in one place would collect data on all material traces containing DNA that have been analysed in various court proceedings and would serve to form a single national database. This means that the data of this species would practically be collected in the register. It is important to stress that the drafting of this law has also seen solutions on parallel EU legislation, and it has been taken into account the compliance of the provisions of this law with the provisions of the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law governing the protection of personal data. The sixth is the draft law on the single number of citizens. The existing Law on the Single National Number was adopted in 1978, it is quite logical that after all the events in the former SFRY, something should change. It happened that persons from the former republics, when the residence was registered, provided a copy of the birth certificate in which no home number was recorded, so they were given a home number according to the residence in the Republic of Serbia, while the same was later delivered by the foreign authorities in the birth certificate by the registered home number set out in the republics of the former SFRY, leading to double entries of the person in the different e-recording numbers. Since, in accordance with the existing Law on the Single Origin Number of Citizens, it is necessary to adopt a new law on the single number of citizens who will create a legal basis for these breeding numbers to be pasivised, annulled by the competent organisations of the units of the interior department. The seventh is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Citizenship. The shortest proposed amendments to the Law will allow for centralised management in electronic form of basic data on citizens, which will be of multiple benefit to citizens in the exercise of their rights to the authorities of the state administration and other administrative procedures. The eighth in a row, according to my assessment, is one of the most important draft laws that we are adopting today is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. The photo item that we have in the central hall of our Assembly, clearly, anyone who has had time and opportunity to look at them, indicates how serious this is, in fact, the law. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted several amendments to this law, and they, above all, refer to car schools, mostly to instructors, where, in addition to their constant training, we have asked that all instructors do not have to keep testing and thus prove they know they are doing the work they do. So they're obliged to go to constant training, and that's when people are perfecting and they're constantly doing something, it's logical that they do it right. The data that says that more than 8,000 of the driver's licenses have been withdrawn since this law came into force, says they may be the most important effects and the best results of this law. In such a short time, 8,000 driving licenses were seized, saying that people of the traffic police found 8,000 serious violations that conditioned the withdrawal of driver's licenses. When I have the opportunity to be with my friends in Europe, to be their guest and they drive me in their cars across EU countries, it means our people living there respect every restriction and every regulation. The same people come to us, drive me here in their car, say 50, drive 80, on the 120, drive 190. I ask them, "What is this about?" That's where you follow the rules, when you get here you see a clear sign and you don't follow the rules? They say, you know what -- here, when we're in Serbia, they're so cheap, it's not worth it to us to respect legal regulations. That's why we support this bill because these changes, first of all, are no longer minor. In addition to those 8,000 sequestered driver licenses, this trend should, after all, be brought to some normal, but if it continues, it will certainly contribute to security, and I want to read those fines, where it says that almost all penalties will double – using a mobile phone from 5,000 goes to 10,000, fastening seat belts, i.e. non-connection from 5,000 to 10,000, the ban on crossing between 6,000 and 20,000 has now increased from a minimum of 10,000 to 20,000. If I can only ask for time to know what frame I can talk about, because I don't see it on the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29065	Keep going, we'll tell you the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29066	I know you're gonna tell me when it's over, but I need to know how I'm gonna end up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29067	We'll tell you, just a minute. We've got technical problems, so you guys keep going. Twelve more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29068	Thank you. As for overspeed, there are also literally duplicated all penalties. Not to go into all the other details, because colleagues mentioned them today, I think this is a good law and that the position and opposition should vote in favour of laws that benefit and contribute to all citizens. The ninth is the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act. As far as this law is concerned, I'd just like to read some statistics that I've managed to find, and they sound like this -- members of Serbia's MUP, in the past year, have produced record results in several areas. During 2017, police seized 4.1 tonnes of narcotics, the best result in the last 10 years. For the sake of selling and holding drugs, 1,668 people have been processed. In the year when it comes to crime, 91,283 crimes were committed in 2017, the smallest number in the last 10 years. According to the MUP, looking at this period, the least criminal acts of murder have been committed, while the number of car accidents has been reduced by 17%. In 2017, members of the MUP extinguished and prevented the spread of 31,328 fires. Over 2.4 million passports, ID cards, driver's licenses and traffic permits were issued, and nearly 69 million passengers were controlled at border crossings. You know what, when the ministry gets to the law that needs to amend and supplement the law on police, and we see what results the MUP has, I think we should all support it, because they've figured out what it is that slows them down so they can be even better and more efficient compared to these excellent results. The tenth law before us is the bill on amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace. The adoption of laws and amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace and the fact that there is greater certainty of penalties against legal behaviour, which disturbs citizens and violates public order and peace, raises the level of security of citizens in places where they are exposed to the use of pyrotechnic means. I singled out only two headlines in the newspaper, "News" find out – finally order. A hundred thousand dinars a penalty for him who casts a firecracker or burns a torch, for scheming, for up to two months in prison. Second title – For shooting at weddings two months in prison. As you said today, there are many ways in which someone wants to share their joy with someone else. He can do that, find a much nicer way, and I certainly support all these penalties that have been increased. Of course, citizens need to know that punishment for beggars is up to 30,000 dinars, punishment for pyrotechnics 50,000 dinars, shouting and loud music is punishment for up to 30,000 dinars, for fighting is the penalty of up to 150 thousand dinars, and now this may be the funniest, I won't read, return and prophesy of fate, but there's also the penalty of 50,000 dinars. As for the set of these laws, I was quick, I tried to mention them all. We have eight other draft laws to confirm the different agreements below. Let me just say briefly that in those eight agreements, the agreement with the Russian Federation, the agreement with Slovenia, the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, the agreement with the Republic of Greece and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden. Of course, each agreement is different in its own way, but what is important is that this is one good indicator that Serbia is working with all these agreements, both with countries in the environment and with EU countries and, of course, Russia. Mr. Minister, as far as the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group is concerned, I said so in the beginning, we will support all these agreements and all the draft laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29069	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29070	Thank you, Chairman. I would say, first of all, about the Law on Asylum which, like all other laws, has in its reasoning that it is under the European Union's directive and because of its alignment with the European Union. I think it would be a good practice to write it once, and to be in line with the needs and interests of the citizens of Serbia. For starters, even fictionally, we respect our citizens, not the European Union, whose member Serbia is not yet and when it will become and will become, we do not know, but we certainly know that it is under the obligation to sign a legally binding document and give up Kosovo and Metohija, or 15% of its territory. So, we have no reason to have every law here adopted under the European Union's directive and to bring it into line with the European Union. As a member of the Human Rights Committee, I've had the opportunity to visit the reception centers, here, specifically in Subotica. These are really moving images, when you see five children who don't know their parents, and there's no possibility that these children can go on living together, it's necessary to put them in different families and many other problems. But Serbia, because of the situation it is in, and the poverty of our citizens, must primarily take care of itself, and only after that, of the problems we have not caused and for which we are not to blame. I've had such an opportunity to know that, apart from these four thousand migrants that we currently have in our territory, we can expect a far larger number, that the NGO sector is very ready to work with migrants, that both UNDP and UNICEF are expressing themselves very openly to us with their expectations. In particular, a UNICEF official told us, at one of the sessions, that we must find a job for these young people who have shaved here, because, as he says, if you do not hire these 16-year-olds, you will have, quote "temporary bombs that walk in the streets". I don't know where we're going to hire our youth, let alone the ones we expect to find in Serbia, not their will, not ours. Mr. Ivanovic, former secretary of state of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has repeatedly explained how the ministers in charge of migration and asylum were asking migrants who were stationed near the Bus station in Belgrade to move to Obrenovac, where they would be better off and where they would be better taken care of. And then I reacted, and now I repeat, in a serious state, ministers do not beg migrants, but they inform them of their obligations. Personal integrity may have or do not have it, but when you represent the state, you must do it in a dignified manner and in favour of your own citizens. I heard back then that he was trying to get all the migrants out of these centers and to get some permanent accommodation, and also MPs from the ruling majority who mentioned so many empty Serbian villages that, behold, we benefactors should offer migrants and place them in them. At the same time, the adoption of local action plans in all our local communities, which particularly treat the care of migrants, are being implemented. There, apparently, is also counting on some donations from the European Union, but everywhere it is indicated that 10 to 15% of these funds should be provided by the local community. I've been asked many times whether something costs us migrants, guaranteed it's not true. I will now read a few details of the contribution I received from the Commissioner for Refugees, where it clearly states that in reception centres, besides accommodations, asylum seekers are provided with food, clothing, shoes, recreational and educational activities, psychosocial assistance and free legal assistance. Three meals a day, in accordance with the nutritionist standards and religious needs of migrants, are provided in all the centres that provide for migrants. All persons are provided with a sufficient amount of clothing, shoes, food, time-adjusted conditions, as well as sufficient amounts of hygiene. Access to health care has been secured. In all centres there are facilities for providing health care and have special rooms adapted for children. In School 2017/2018 Year, 534 children were enrolled in 33 schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So this is all official data. When we were in Subotica, we could hear from journalists, who were informed, that there was a serious situation in the area of the Tavankut for the safety of the surrounding population, that migrants were gathered in the surrounding forests, and we were informed about other incidents that took place in Shid, Obrenovac, Somboro and elsewhere. Unfortunately, the media reacted at the time, but only in such cases, and in an ugly way, described how the Serb population reacts to such incidents caused by migrants. So no one talks to the population, nobody cares about them, and then we wonder why people are scared. I can also confirm that a lot of information is being hidden and that they don't show up as they are. After the deployment of the Acceptable Centre in Shid, I referred one question to the Refugee Commissioner and at the same time to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs, where I asked how many migrants and persons were in the accommodation. The refugee commissioner replied that at no time were there more than 55 people, while I received a double number from the Ministry of Labour, on the same question, for one situation. So how can I believe that this is all done by law and that the citizens of Serbia are not at risk? In particular, from the proposal for an asylum law, the financial resources needed to implement this law, a few details just about that. Tvining project – Support for the national asylum system in the Republic of Serbia, which is foreseen by the government's Action Plan, the work of the Asylum Commission will be financed by funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The following are the really large figures, the means to implement the bill's proposal relating to the responsibility of the Commissioner for Refugees and Migrations, and now there are 310 million dinar figures, 50 million dinars, for the Ministry of Health two million dinars, support for higher education, University of Belgrade, nearly two billion, support for the work of the State University in Novi Pazar in the amount of 118 million 639 thousand, etc. I also want to express a great deal of concern, given our birth rate, the number of citizens in Serbia, for migration, for the departure of our young people from this country. Will demographics change significantly in Serbia? If I give the information that the interior minister has asked me - how many persons he has asked, he has expressed his intention to seek asylum in Serbia, where I am responsible for calling for asylum in the period from 01 July 2011 to 31 December 2016. That's almost 10% of our population. On the other hand, the migrants we receive today are no longer war refugees, these are economic refugees. I also had a chance to get acquainted with the activities of the World Trade Organisation that monitors migration to North Africa. So, they come because of the hunger and the poor conditions in their countries, and I can still document it from the same document that we got from the Commissioner for Refugees. We have 56.65% refugees, Iraq 16%, Pakistan 12%, Iran 4.77% and Syria 2.4%. In the end, the migrant crisis isn't over. This adds to the fact that on October 31st 2017, we have 3,882 migrants in asylum centres and reception centres. The European Union plans assistance in the form of the MADAD 2 document for 2018. So, the MADAD 1 project has been completed and within it it has been sent here, as I understand it, seven million euros. However, what is Serbia's commitment under the MADAD 2 project launched in January 2018? I haven't been able to find out, because the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is avoiding bringing me that text. So I asked the Committee on Human Rights for the Ministry, I asked the Commissioner for Refugees for the Ministry, and until today, the Ministry has not delivered me the text of Project MADAD 2, and I am therefore very concerned about how the adoption of the Asylum Law and the Foreign Law will be reflected in that Action Plan that the Serbian Government has already adopted. It will happen, unfortunately again, that we here only fictitiously, at the bell, confirm what someone else has agreed elsewhere and that the National Assembly is again humiliated and that our control role is being annulled. As far as the DNA law that has been discussed today is concerned, I will remind Dr Oliver Stojkovic, a professor of genetics at the Medical Faculty, who pointed out that the bill does not foresee a single measure to prevent his abuse, with no measure in the law to delete anyone who enters the police register from it if proven innocent. I also join what the Data Protection Commissioner Rodoljub Sabic said and we, all of us, have promised him support. It is very little debateable that the minister is calling for the judiciary, that the judiciary will protect the citizens in accordance with this law, because we all know very well that the judiciary in this country is not independent either. Again, the adoption of these laws significantly endangers the security of Serbian citizens in every way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29071	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29072	Just for a little while. I have to mention that the number of migrants on our country's territory for about a year and a half is about three and a half thousand, three thousand and two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, six. They're numbers that move and they change slightly from week to week. That's the frame they're moving in. Indeed, almost a million and a half people have gone through our country. About 600,000, you said exactly, expressed his intention to seek asylum and they sought asylum, but in Germany. They've all gone to Germany. I talked to him myself. They cannot return, because before us they have entered other EU countries in which they have also expressed their intention to seek asylum. So they must return, according to the Dublin Agreement, to the first EU country they set foot in, which is Greece. They do not want to return at this time, except those which, on the basis of the incompatibility of the family or some other conditions, Germany will try to return to the countries of origin, and will mostly remain there. The German people need you, they need the workforce. There's a million to 82, 83 million people, and that's the number they can handle. I agree with you. We are not a big country, and when we spoke to people from various international organisations, who have significantly helped Serbia in the migrant crisis... The EU has provided us with significant assistance, the UN has provided us with significant assistance and various other organisations that have helped to make migrants in Serbia with their money, to reconstruct and rebuild some of the centres for their accommodation, so those centres for the reception of foreigners and those centres for the accommodation of migrants. In Presevo, for example, one of the most successful models, let's say, that center was really impressively done. So it's made entirely of EU money and it really looks fantastic in the sense that we can provide accommodation for these people. Of course, I don't think any of our citizens would like to live in a collective accommodation. We can't say it's an ideal accommodation. No one else can give them anything else right now, because these people don't want to stay in Serbia. I talked to them and you know it. When you talk to them they say, I led foreign ambassadors to see it, we want to go to Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, France. Many of them have never been there, but they have heard that receiving there is far better or that they have better welfare conditions or have one of the family members who are there and they want to go there. There is no solution to the issue of migration – what to do with people who are not refugees, so they do not come from areas where there is a war or any other reason why they are fleeing, which are essentially economic migrants, and they are found in our territory? The problem is, through our reading agreements... For example, the readmission agreement with Bulgaria is perfect, it works perfectly. All the people we brought back to them, they took everything, which is their international obligation, but it's unclear whether they got in from Macedonia, and with whom we have weaker co-operation, I have to say, in terms of reading, and that's the fact that when migrants can't be admitted to the country of origin. I can't give you an answer to this question, and because no one came up with it, it still doesn't exist. We are working with the International Organisation for Migration to establish some kind of air bridges, and a small number of people, but that Serbia should also be involved, or in EU projects where certain EU Member States have more favourable bilateral agreements with those countries of origin. After all, some of them have more significant financial interests in these countries, so these countries look differently at their request to accept migrants than at our request. We have the opportunity to participate in that system. We're trying to solve the migrant crisis in a way that makes us decent and human to migrants. You say, "The ministers went to pray." They didn't go to the ministers to beg, they went to speak kindly, politely and nicely with these people. The alternative is what? Send the police with beatings to beat them up, put them in some trucks and drive them somewhere? We can't do that. That would be very incompatible with anything I believe in. I will not personally order anyone in this country to be beaten, so it was a migrant, because you have an alternative. When a man won't follow your orders to put him on a bus, what can you do? Here, I ask you – what can you do? You have the opportunity to kindly ask him, to convince him that where you're taking him is not bad for him, that it's better than in those wasted barracks where he can get sick, because they were there to be in close contact with the smugglers and in closer communication with those who lead them, and it's much better to talk to them and 100 days and to do them in peace, as we have managed to do, in a very decent and normal way to get them on buses, than to try to solve it by force, because not to do anything good, but to do Serbia in the long run would cause enormous damage. You remember one day beating people in Macedonia. That one day that Macedonia applied force and was brutal to migrants, that one day cost Macedonia the world's reputation. This picture was spinning, spinning, spinning. All the countries of Europe were disgusted by these scenes. In one day, a lot of what they were trying to do was destroyed. Serbia, today, wherever you want, no matter what you're right, it's not free, therefore, and the involvement of police and military and health and all, but let me tell you we're at least a country that's had many years back of experience with migration, refugee, our people have been running away. So, we've had experience of what it's like when someone loses their home, so if the answer is ever left without home to beat them up, I just don't think it would be a good message to our people, like you wouldn't be, I'm sure you don't believe it too, and I know that you don't believe it, at least personally. As far as this policy is concerned, the MUP will continue to implement this policy in a way that we can always try to act in a civilized and human way. Of course, this does not mean that we will allow anyone to commit crimes or crimes on our country's territory. We did have a situation in Shid, and I personally was in Shid two or three times, talking to both local self-government and residents and representatives of the economy who were, who had a few incidents with migrants and it was indeed a burdensome moment for a small municipality like Shid and of course we reacted more sharply, that we sent more police and that the problem was solved, that it was solved. So we've sent a clear message to everyone -- you're welcome to the Republic of Serbia, but that doesn't mean you can behave here as you come to think of it. And that's the balance, like everything else in life. So, if you want to be a good host, you have to make sure that respect for the law always comes first, but that the conduct of your state authorities is always leveled so that it means protecting the greatest number of rights of all and our citizens and migrants. There is no truth that is only on one side, the balance must always be established. The largest number of incidents were usually among the migrants themselves. At first, they were Syrians with, say, Moroccans or Pakistanis, Afghans. In order to reduce the number of Syrian migrants, the Pakistanis and Afghans were the two groups of migrants who made the most problems. We try to receive more people who understand their language and their different dialects, and believe me, it's not easy. We had a huge number of wonderful volunteers all over the country who appeared, people who knew these languages and who helped us communicate with them, to explain to them what the things we had to do were. So, I expect everyone's support, to say the MPs, but also everyone else's, because this is a question that Serbia itself cannot solve. We now have the number of migrants for which we have enough help and we have enough of our own resources. This is not too much of a problem for us, but of course it does not mean that Serbia will be parking for migrants. We're trying to build a system that works and, of course, we'll follow closely. When we see an increase in the Greek islands, we know that this is the first signal in the launch of a migrant wave closer to Greece, to Macedonia, to Bulgaria and, of course, potential entry into our country. In the end, we have also established military police forces at the border that have been able to prevent the illegal crossing of a part of the people. Of course, that one part of the people is only at the moment where the control was carried out, visited those controls, entered another part. One part of the people came back, but in any case we managed to protect Serbia that there were no more serious security challenges and that the citizens didn't feel it. Most Serbian citizens have never seen any migrants live, because we have managed to reduce the crisis to the extent necessary and of course we will follow how it happens in the future. If there's an increase in the crisis, we'll have to react. I'm one of those who's always been advocacy of more stringent measures and methods in terms of protecting the state border. That doesn't mean a stricter treatment of people, just clearer criteria for who can and how to enter our country's territory. After all, our fundamental problem is that Europe does not have a unique attitude in action either. So, even those who, on the one hand, claim to have a very soft, open attitude, on the other hand, do everything to prevent their measures from passing migrants across their country. Serbia will, of course, be very careful to monitor the experience further. We have to say that indeed the Swedes, the Germans, have shown, have set an example that even at the cost of serious antagonisms, which they have in their countries today, have managed to do one thing that involves the reception of a huge number of families, a huge number of people, and whatever it was not easy for them in some economic sense was positive for them, because they also get people who are willing to work and eventually some educated people and some people who want to be part of their society. On the other hand, it is, of course, a security challenge for these countries, which they too must think seriously about. It's a complex, very complex question, but we've been trying to make these laws as close as possible and we've been better able to edit this matter so that we can be in a position to better protect our country. Of course, every good legal solution, change, amendment, we are always ready to adopt and to consider whether it can be better than what we predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29073	Thank you. (Maria Janjušević: Replica. There's no replica. There's no basis for replication. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29074	Thank you. Today on the agenda we have ten very important laws that are unfortunately united in one debate, so in these twenty minutes, as far as I have as an authorised proposer, I would like to say something about them. Instead of defining myself to spend two minutes under the law, I decided to focus on two laws and explain in more detail the problems that, I think, exist when they are concerned. It's about the Law on a unique home number of citizens and the Law on the National DNA registry. I'm extremely sorry that we won't have more time to say something about other laws. I thought maybe we could make up for it through the amendment debate. Unfortunately, however, we will not have the opportunity because the ruling coalition MPs usurped all six minutes dedicated to the amendment debate by submitting over 300 amendments to only the first ten members of the first Foreign Law. So I've only submitted amendments to the National DNA registry Act, but they won't be able to get a chance to talk about them at all, and that's why I'm extremely sorry. I just want to say that I could say a lot more than I could have had the chance. Let's get going, the law on the unique home number of citizens. Since 2011, the Personal Data Protection Commissioner points to the fact that, as our unique home number of citizens has been made, it in itself reveals a large amount of personal data about each of us. So, I'm saying, since 2011, these warnings date before this ruling coalition came to power. Please note that what I'm asking is not only about this ruling coalition, but in general, one direction that exists in the MUP when it comes to JMBG. As you know, the first two digits in JMBG reveal the date of birth, the other two digits - the month of birth, the next three digits - the year of birth, the next three digits - the half and the place of birth. You also know very well that, for example, The Agency for Economic Registers shall publish all unique citizens’ home numbers. We already have a problem with identity theft. By persistently refusing to replace such unique home numbers of citizens with a random computerized number, as Croatia has done, which now has a personal identification number, which does not reveal any of this, means we are practically facilitating abuse and identity theft. My basic question for the minister is – why are we persistently delaying and avoiding changing the appearance of this JMBG? I guess there's a reason. I see that with all these laws, which are on the agenda today, there has been very good co-operation between the MUP and the Office of the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data. The Commissioner himself praised, for example, the Law on Recording and Processing of Data, that co-operation and all its objections were adopted. In that case I see that the Ministry is open to the opinion and suggestions of experts, which the Trustee as an independent body is, he is expert in this particular matter, he deals with it in detail and then I do not understand why this same relationship the Ministry did not have and when it comes to his objections regarding the Law on JMBG and especially about the Law on National DNA register. There's got to be some reason, I don't want to guess it, I'd like the minister to tell me if there's a problem with this JMBG at all, that it reveals too much personal data, and if there's even a plan, even long-term, to change it? Also, in order to encourage this to be considered or to speed up the process of replacing the number, I would like to point out that there is one collateral benefit. Let's say, at a time when we decide to replace this JMBG with some random computerized number, we'll take care of the voter lists, which are, I must tell you from personal experience, in chaos. Last year, during the presidential elections, I was a single-election controller in New Belgrade, in one of the only polling stations in New Belgrade. Two voters appeared who were double registered, but you know how, the first time they were enrolled and were assigned a JMBG error was made on behalf. Now, instead of erasing it, it's left over, and they've been issued a new JMBG with a properly written name and they say it's been standing for a long time. So, in one election spot, two such cases. Not to tell you that two grandmothers cried every year that their late spouses get phone calls for a number. Excuse me, what's wrong with the microphone? Can you turn it up?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29075	We can hear you perfectly in the O.R., and we can hear everything in the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29076	I just hope the minister hears.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29077	And I heard you say instead of saying I don't want to, you said I wouldn't get used to it. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29078	How many decibels have you cut me down?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29079	Keep going, you'll be in touch with the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29080	How many decibels have you cut me down? If it's only two, it's okay. To continue, it's an opportunity for us to settle the voter lists. I would ask the Minister only for an explanation which is why since 2011, come on, he wasn't a minister at the time, but at least for his term it's not coming to the agenda and is there a plan to finally change that? Also, when it comes to this law, there is a problem in Article 14 which predicts that the way and storage of data processing, forms, etc. is prescribed by a sublegal act. Please, again in this assembly, not only from this minister, but from various ministers come the draft laws that contain a large amount of sublegal acts. This is very unacceptable for one basic reason – what is prescribed by the sublegal act is not subject to criminal provisions. Not to tell you that when it comes to the protection of personal data, our Constitution prescribes that it must be prescribed by law. Even on 30 May 2012, the Constitutional Court ruled that such things could not be prescribed by a sublaw, but must be prescribed by law. I appeal that wherever in all these laws there is some sublegal act which, as soon as possible, in the Ministry of Preparation, amends and amends the law and enters the law instead of being in a sublegal act. There's no point in breaking our own constitution. It is now too late, the amendments will not even come to our agenda, it must come from you as a legislator of the law very quickly changing the amendments and supplementing these laws to get out of the area of violation of the Constitution and the areas of disrespect for the decision of our Constitutional Court. As for the second National DNA registry Act, virtually no credentials have been respected, unfortunately for me. Here, the minister has already, in response to some remarks, said he does not have to respect every recommendation of the Commissioner. I can only agree with that in the part where nothing but death is required, but when it comes to expertise in this area, we as a state and established an independent institution of the Trustees so that it would be an advisory body for other institutions in the country when it comes to this issue. He knows this area deeply, we should listen to every recommendation he makes. What's the matter with this bill? The biggest problem is in two members, in Articles 5 and 10. Article 5 only lists the different DNA registers, and nowhere is it prescribed who is authorized to process that data at all, under which conditions, in which time limits and how data are deleted from that register. So in those registers you'll also have DNA profiles and faces that are suspected and those who are accused and those who are convicted. Look, someone might be suspected in one part of the investigation, so they're cleared of suspicion. If his DNA was taken, that DNA remains in the register. Someone can be blamed and released in court. If his DNA was taken, he stays in the register. Why? The minister is responding to some other MPs on issues, he said it was settled by then requiring the citizen to request an erasure from the register. That's unacceptable. Excuse me, citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay taxes, pay civil servants and state services to do administrative work for them. It doesn't make sense that you expect citizens to go after the court and some other authorities, to delete their DNA profiles from the register. These things must be prescribed by law and in that case the responsibility is on state institutions, not on individual citizens. Not to mention that this except that it is not in accordance with our Constitution, is not in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, and is not in line with the European Court of Human Rights standards. What I can imagine right now, far away, but I can imagine it as a possibility, is that we pass this law, that a certain number of people found in that DNA register, even though it shouldn't belong there, take and fold the tab, sue the state and get to Strasbourg, and then the state has to pay huge damages, as we've already had in a number of cases for some other things. Why are we even putting ourselves in this situation? Why don't we write everything right now? Please don't take my remarks as a mistrust, of course we all trust the police. I note that at the same time I believe that the possibility of abuse should not be facilitated, if we can already prevent it, and we can if these things the Commissioner has already pointed out and explained them nicely, we accept and pass the law properly. I'd like to appeal for this national DNA bill to be withdrawn from the procedure, to be done in accordance with the credentials and then returned to the Assembly. If he were important to us, if we needed him, not slow, but the way he's written isn't good enough, and since you've made good co-operation with the Commissioner about the other laws, I don't see why you couldn't do the same about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29081	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29082	One of the problems that exists in the CAP, I quoted the provisions of the CAP, which states that the court, i.e. the public prosecutor, may order the taking of a DNA profile, so the DNA sample that is then kept. So the M.O.P. has no right, he can't use this law to prescribe his powers above the jurisdiction of the court. We can prescribe through the CAP a different way of treating DNA sampling after the need has stopped, well, all of those things that I agree with in principle, which you said someone who's been released, that after that, you automatically delete his DNA profile from the base. Why didn't we give up and wait for a change? Look at the current state, here's the active state. The lab that's doing the paternity test, who's keeping those samples? By what rights? Where does he store them? Who's accessing them? How does he process them? It's completely messy. Completely unsettled, not now, back many years ago and we thought it was much better that, when we proposed this law, we arranged the most important part of what is in this area, to say the rights and to fix what is a fundamental issue, to form a register that is under strict control and to be approached by employees of the NKTC MUP who have a certificate, who are authorized and under the supervision of the code. You know exactly when someone approached a coma. So in that sense, we completely ruled out the possibility of someone accessing the sample without being authorized and not knowing that he had approached it. It's absolutely impossible. I agree with this, and it makes perfect sense for me that someone who was, for example, a suspect in a criminal trial has established his innocence, there's no need to keep his pattern, and we're going to work on it to be automation. So, you're right, there's no need for someone who's a citizen, who's supposed to make it happen, if we've allowed people to report babies from the maternity ward that they don't have to go to the police station, which would require the court to give him something that the court ordered him to do, and the court ordered him to take a sample, which would now have to ask specifically for the court to delete. We just need to amend these other laws that will allow it to be in line with the CAP. As for the number of citizens, I think we can work on it. So it's better to protect if it's some random generated number, not a number containing a number of personal data from citizens. There is also an example in Italy and Belgium where birth dates are part of the birth number, i.e. such a unique number. There are in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia and it was usually the moment when you go to full change, the best moment was in 2011, when we changed ID cards and passports. It was an ideal time for citizens not to be exposed, because now you have, if we change that number, change of ID cards, change of passports, driver's licenses, traffic permits, all possible permits, who knows everything from personal documents, which doesn't come to mind now, who knows what we'd have to change. Systems, records, everything that exists in the state, which I don't say we won't have to. So we have essentially a very strict regulation and in the state exchange of data that includes JMBG and there is a precaution when it is handled and they are exchanged. That's not always the case, and I agree. I agree with your statement that we should not help the possibility of abuse. One way is certainly to maybe see how we can, I talked to my colleagues that maybe through projects that could be funded by the EU, to help us in terms of formation based on some successful model that exists, to see how to do it in the period when we change, when the peak number of biometric documents comes out, and in the period when the largest number of citizens have to change, to do so in that period. It's the only thing that makes sense to me and try to free people from any extra cost. I can't say right now, I have to do an analysis, what it would cost, what effect it would have on the citizens, and then go out with it as a serious proposal, with a serious project that we could solve. In principle, I think we should work on it, with that I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29083	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29084	Freedom, justice, security. That's what these laws are all about, almost everything that's in front of us. Freedom, justice and security are the contents of Chapter 24 which helps us to make new rules on time, on which we decide, that will bring more freedom, more justice and more security, which, with these bill proposals, has happened, with little deadlines for the action plan, but in principle, were envisaged for adoption in the Assembly by the end of 2017. Why is it important for me to talk about freedom, justice and security here? Because some of us MPs are ready, when it comes to the quality of the solution in the laws to say – everything is great, and some of us are ready to say – everything sucks. I take it pretty well, until topics like freedom, justice and security are in question, and then I offer a different approach, like in a famous joke when they see Lala taking out potatoes, and they ask him, "Is Lalo, is that a big potato?" He's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one So the idea is to see what of these solutions is good, what could be better and how some of the solutions from the proposed legislation will bring more freedom, more justice and more security for people living in Serbia. It's my approach, I know I'm in the minority, I guess, but just because I'm in the minority doesn't mean I'm right. And that's what it was, unfortunately. I will offer three groups of reviews of freedom, justice and security both to my associates and to the minister. The first example is, once some of these laws have been passed, what happens to a woman who is a victim of human trafficking, a foreign citizen, freed from growth and claws of human trafficking in Serbia's territory, has no documents and has difficulty with verbal communication? Which of these laws are applied and how and why, if she couldn't be helped until these laws were done? Because it's supposed to be a conversation when it comes to any law that changes my life. In this case, it changes the life of a party who is a victim of human trafficking and is located in Serbia's territory. These laws serve to make it clear to all people how, once applied, they change for better or worse everyday lives of people. Why do I think the answer to this question is important? Because we will often hear, with freedom of justice and security, that we are doing it because we have EU directives. You know what? If we are not fond of freedom, justice and security, there is no directive that will make our society more free, more justice and more security. And no one has ever stopped us from passing laws that take care of each individual, who are public, who are easily controlled in application and who really change the lives of the individual for the better. Why do I say, and I have evidence that no one was stopping us? I belong to those rare people who have had good grades and praises for the government of the Republic of Serbia in treating the problem of migration since 2015. No one forced us, and there was no directive to view these people as human beings, but we did. And that was enough to go wherever we go to Europe, I say -- and you make walls, you kick refugees in the fields, you lock them up, you want to throw them out of the EU anywhere, you know, we don't do that in Serbia. We do things in Serbia, but we don't. That's the point of truly estimating freedom, justice and security for all people. One depression, with the question of what's going on with the party that's been found. And here it's been said that there are refugees, that we understand who they are, that they are people who have no choice if they're going to go on the road. If they stay where they are, they'll be dead. It's not much of a choice in life. And then all of a sudden, what do we do with people who want a better life? I'm amazed it's become a crime. You don't want to make money here, what do we do with you? If we want to prevent people from going to markets or countries with a better standard, then it is time for someone to say it publicly, clearly and loudly in the EU. Being looking for a better life is a crime and the EU will not suffer it, will not suffer America, will not suffer Canada, Australia etc. If such a generation of people had an attitude 100 or 200 years ago, they'd be so empty, both America and Australia and Canada, which the Indians would probably be looking forward to, but that's a different story. So, I would like to make it more clear from Serbia, that people's demand to seek a better life far from where they live is not considered a crime and cannot be treated as an idea to be retired in any way. I'm not sure we're going to make it, since it's too much from the spine of nationalism across Europe to those migrants, these scary Syrians, Pakistanis, Afghans, they come to change culture there and be terribly evil. There's that in Serbia, too. In my universe, it's a shame, but few who listen to me on that basis. The last part I want to share with you is what I see to be right, and what's wrong, or it could be better in just two laws. First, a shorter observation concerning the Transport Safety Act concerns technical examinations. I'll share a narrative with you from the field. I'm not sure if it's all true, I can't name names, so I'll, like, once over seven seas and seven countries and seven mountains. You've got an agency that you're setting up for a second job, she's doing a technical checkup that's never been done. They say it's happening. People who actually do technical examinations have unfair competition, as I think, and it's much more important that you have a de facto vehicle that hasn't passed the technical examination. I know that this kind of, conditionalally speaking, business is somewhere between and on the edge and that you can hardly define, apart from fraud, a criminal act, but I would like to see the technical examinations done in the future lessen the chance of resourceful, full ideas of people in Serbia who have done this quite skillfully in recent months. What's a little longer is the Law on the Police, or amendments to the Police Act. Why am I saying that no one is stopping us when we talk about freedom, justice and security to do it whenever we want? Nobody's stopping us from doing law analysis and the fact of the law on people and the space they're referring to and then saying that it's divided here. We'll change the law on police two years later, but here's why. For once in Serbia to begin measuring something that is the result of law enforcement. What you can't measure, you can't even control it, you can't even change it. What is evident is that it is measured that it is not good in the 2016 law that more precise police tasks are defined, strategic planning has been introduced for a strategic public security assessment. We didn't have that defined. I know it worked, but this ministry, as well as others, is in our perception – "it's the police, it's security, it's something very serious, don't touch it," which is something if you want to call yourself a reformer, in terms of the EU directive. Already listed secure electronic communication for the national intelligence system is valuable, I hope it really works, and detailed security checks. What might have been better here was already mentioned expanding the exceptions to employment. That's the point where I want to share with you why every time I propose, every legislator proposes an act immediately. Propose it immediately and then completely erase the possibility of saying, the minister will hire relatives here, the minister will hire a former criminal, the minister will hire party activists there. Because it says what the minister is going to hire, who the minister is going to hire, and then you lose, how can I tell you, it's losing space for a story, everything is super absolute, and everything sucks. Great, as soon as you have a sublegal act. Expansion of face scope for security clearance. I know many in Serbia are obsessed, fascinated by security checks. I've had one experience where they came here to the Assembly and you say as a MP to file your request for security clearance. I'm just wondering where you've been last time to rebel and what happened afterwards? They say, "That's important." I'm going to file a motion as a People's Messenger. He says it's legal. Well, it isn't, because the president of the National Assembly stands as someone who doesn't need to be checked, and her capacity, in this case, stems from the role of MPs. But, I understand, it's now, like, check it out. It's all about sublegal acts here, too. If you're going to expand your face for security, write down who it's going to be for. If you're not going to offer a sublegal act immediately, because it can't be in the law, then we'll have room for various narratives, which it has anyway. What I have left as an explanation is a protection unit. I've seen how it is, but it would be good, you don't have to now in the debate, if you're tired, it would be good for the public to be quite clear what the protection unit is doing, as it would be quite clear that the independence of internal control is guaranteed. Not because of me, I can always ask a parliamentary question, so that I know. Because of the people inside the Ministry itself. Police as a special organisational part, also something that should have been defined and not. And my last observation will concern early retirement proposals. I shared with some MPs that I had an ethical dilemma whether to submit an amendment to early retirement. The ethical dilemma is that I know what the attitude is about when I sign some amendment. I mean, I don't want to repeat all the imaginative, ugly expressions that relate to my name and to my party. And it was too important for me to sublegally include the largest possible number of people for early retirement without the requirement of missing a year. You just have people who are 20 or 25 years old in the police force, these people have passed the 1990s. Give them early pensions. I know that's not what the bill says, and that's why I couldn't stand the amendment, but how can I tell you, that's justice. If you can make a sublegal act for that justice that would, without changing this provision for early retirement. I also know that those early retirement provisions will take advantage of those who didn't deserve it at all, but that's your life, how can I tell you. Don't do it because of those, that because of his unrelated job experience or because he missed it between 1999 and 2001, or because he didn't put it together in the '90s, that people who really deserved early retirement and severance should be covered by that number. If you need a sublegal act that would include changes in the positions of the budget, do so, too, because it is justice. With hope, I am waiting for the next amendments from Chapter 24 and hopeless, that we will really talk about measured freedom, justice and security for each of us, because it is the key to reforming the European recipe, that I, as someone living in Serbia, feel that because I am changing the laws, because I am joining the EU, because the government, as it says in the law, is not governed by the law and the abuse of law, that I live more freely, safer and with more justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29085	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29086	Thank you. As for a few things I wanted to tell you about these things that you've initiated regarding the potential victim of trafficking in people who are foreign citizens. In our case, such provisions are prescribed regarding the approval of a temporary stay, up to a year with the possibility of enlargement and then acts as the Centre for the Protection of Victims of Human Trade as a state body providing the victim with psychological, health care, every other protection. So she has the right to work, to hire, everything that can be provided in such a way. If I understand the question correctly, it's a process of how it works, it determines whether it's a victim of human trafficking. If it's a human trafficking victim, it immediately acts on this center, and that's how it works. As for early retirement, early retirement is scheduled, and you know it, I don't have to explain it specifically to you, for those who have 15 years of training and at least 45 years of life, but 15 years of uninterrupted internships in special units that have been various, let me say, in the back of many years. The so-called double key is also foreseen, i.e. the request of members and the agreement of the minister. Neither the minister can retire without that man's consent, nor can he leave if needed by the unit, perhaps he now has some job that is better paid, he can leave of course, but can't have a full pension. So these are foams, or a double key is intended not to be a possibility of abuse. We talked to some of the special forces and people who were more soldiers than cops, most of their lives and spent on such jobs, now going to police stations, will not be useful either through a police-intelligence model, because they don't know how to do that job, and now they're a few years ahead of retirement to learn a whole new set of things that they've been doing, and over the last 15 or 20 years, they've done something else, they're neither perfect for the MUP nor for them personally. After all, we should respect them, they did what the state asked them to do, did everything they needed to do, fought, most of them participated in different war conflicts. It's just that it's not their fault that it all happened that way, and we can't forget that these people did something for their country, which I think is worth meeting in that way. Of course, as far as several places are concerned, a security unit has appeared. The Protection Unit was formed in 2006, since 2006, here's 12 years. We, by this law just, let's say, recognize its speciality in terms of it being special and legal and formed and tell those people who work to protect witnesses in criminal proceedings are also exposed to special psychophysical pressures, fatigues, risks. They're doing a good job, I really think they're doing a good job, and especially considering that back in the years, when I watched an analysis of how some of these witnesses were acting who even past the city's protection program were running wild, chasing, misbehaving. We always contact the acting judge, the prosecutor, ask them to apply certain measures. They avoid applying these measures, and for us it would be much cheaper for the state and easier to locate some of these witnesses, which provides for both the law and the agreement and everything else and to keep them at a much lower cost in another country. The Germans say this, we give you the opportunity, here's your accommodation, find a job, from this moment on find a job, it's not our obligation to feed you for the rest of your life. So we keep you safe but you have to do something, you can't lie in your pajamas and play games. We're trying to talk to the judges in such a way that they understand, that they have people in the protection unit, they have to be understood, they have to understand what their efforts are in this, and I think we're going in a better direction in that sense, and that's why we wanted to recognize their speciality in that way, and that's the only news. I didn't say that because of you as much as I've noticed there's a belief that this is some new unit. So this unit has been around for many years. So I hope that you already feel more secure than before, and I will try to fight for the next months and years for you and every other man in this country to feel real in every place and to increase security, but not only to feel increased security but to see that the results are such, let me say, even where they don't personally get into the everyday lives of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29087	Thank you, Minister. The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29088	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and fellow MPs, we have before us today several legislative solutions that the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will fully support in the voting day, primarily because most of them concern raising the security and security of citizens, as well as combating terrorism, organised crime and human trafficking. The application of the provisions of the applicable Asylum Act during the migrant crisis has shown the great complexity of the current asylum procedure, as well as the fact that certain provisions of the law are imprecise and unspecified, and that they are difficult to apply in practice, which is why there is room for the abuse of the asylum procedure and it is necessary to pass a new law which should reduce the space for the abuse of asylum rights to a minimum. The adoption of a new law on asylum and temporary protection should facilitate the work of state authorities, reduce paperwork and shorten the whole process of resolving any asylum seekers, which is now going on for more than a year. In addition to predicting faster procedures to resolve asylum requirements, the bill also provides for the possibility of not granting asylum rights to a wanted man who poses a threat to national security and the public order of the Republic of Serbia. This new legislative proposal allows the state of Serbia to maintain a high level of respect for internationally accepted human rights standards and asylum seekers' rights, while maintaining a high level of security for all Serbian citizens and respect for the Constitution and laws. When we talk about the proposal for a law on foreigners, we must realise that during the current Foreign Law, problems have also been identified that cannot be overcome without precise definition of the standards relating to the entry, stay and movement of foreign citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and in line with the objective of improving the national system of legal and illegal migration. By passing a new law, we will overcome these shortcomings by prescribing in a more precise and modern way the conditions for entry, movement, stay, as well as the return of foreigners who are irregularly staying in the Republic of Serbia. The new legislative solutions will affect the quality of operations in the areas of movement and residence of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia as a whole, and thus to a greater degree of security, legal certainty, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and foreign citizens who are entering and staying in our country. When we talk about changes and additions to the Road Safety Act, we need to realize that, although a significant shift has been made over the last few years in terms of increasing traffic safety, the risk of road accidents in our country has been increased by a number of times compared to countries with developed and stable traffic safety systems and, in that sense, it is necessary to establish a permanent and effective road safety system as soon as possible. Amendments to the existing law allow for the establishment of a more sustainable and effective road safety system, as well as greater protection of vulnerable traffic safety categories. When making up the Amendments and Supplements to this Act, especially as we see it, took care of the safety of vulnerable categories of traffic participants, especially children and cyclists. Reading the proposed changes and additions, it can be observed that one of their main goals is to address the problem of young and underexperienced drivers. The inexperience of this category of driver is most often the bearer of the risk of their loss, as well as the injuries of other participants in the car accidents in which they participate. In this respect, it is proposed to tighten the conditions for driving vehicles by drivers with a test driving licence. Vehicle management by an alcoholic state driver has been recognised as one of the key problems of traffic safety and, in this respect, proposed reducing the permitted alcoholity limit, as well as introducing a new alcoholism category - high alcoholism. In the field of training of candidates for drivers of this amendment and supplementation of the Law, they aim to eliminate and eliminate the observed problems in applying the applicable provisions, since in carrying out controls on the work of legal persons performing training of candidates for drivers, many of which are the most pronounced failure to maintain theoretical and practical training, as well as the illegal conduct of theoretical and practical examinations, and therefore it is proposed to introduce an information system for training candidates for drivers who form a system for the delivery of training data to the central database of the MUP and the audio-video system of conducting theoretical examinations. Due to the problem that is evident and in the application of the applicable vehicle technical inspection rules, it is also proposed to introduce a vehicle technical inspection information system. That system means a system for data delivery and a system for video surveillance of the technical examination. On the subject of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Police Act, we must conclude that two years ago, the Serbian Parliament, by passing a new Police Law, has taken one significant step that has contributed to improving quality in the conduct of police and other affairs in the MUP. During the two-year application, it was noted that existing legal solutions could be improved in terms of their more efficient application in order to increase the efficiency of the work of the Ministry of Interior itself. In the context of the proposed provisions, particular attention shall be paid to the provisions governing the enforcement of security checks by means of whom and when they can be carried out, as well as to the provisions on the determination of facts which constitute a security obstacle for admission to labour in the MUP. What's important is that this proposal for the first time defines the contents of the security disturbance. All this should bring about a dog to find only those persons worthy of working in the ministry in the ranks of employees in the MUP. The provisions of this proposal provide precisely for the right to remain in the insurance sector for an increased duration and clearly determines which category of employees may be excluded from the application of the provisions of the PIO Act. What is particularly significant is the possibility of retirement to police officers who spent 15 and more years in particularly complex operational affairs, which the minister himself spoke of earlier. As leftist and Socialist Movement MP, I would especially like to commend Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and his entire team for their extremely high social responsibility towards all police officers who have proved by whom they have for some time, by proposing provisions that are being educated by the Solidarity Assistance Fund, which will provide social support to not only employees of police officers, but also members of their families, as well as for a project to resolve housing issues under extremely favourable conditions, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has started. The last proposal for a law to address in my discussion is a proposal to establish a national DNA register, primarily for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings and lighting up criminal acts to determine the identity of missing or unknown bodies, body parts, as well as the processing of data obtained by forensic-genetic analyses. The introduction of biological articulation through the method of DNA analysis into police, prosecutorial and judicial practices provides an unlimited opportunity for the detection of unknown perpetrators of crimes, while at the same time the possibility of eliminating individual suspects as perpetrators of crimes. According to Interpol, 26 countries in Europe have operational DNA databases. So I think it's necessary for our country to create legal conditions for keeping a DNA register. Finally, I would like to repeat once again that our parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29089	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29090	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Stefanovic and his fellow Members, dear fellow MPs, we are almost seven and a half hours in a very effective discussion and what is the summary of today after all these hours is that no one has said that these bill proposals are bad. I listened carefully to all the statements and, regardless of the remarks that one part of the law is not in line with the expectations of the opposition MPs, we can be proud, as in the previous period, of the laws that come from the jurisdiction of the MUP, because all these bill proposals, whether they are new laws or proposals, amendments and additions to existing laws, are always voted on by a vast, large majority and often, can be checked in statistics, and opposition MPs vote for this. Why? Because these laws don't make ad hoc. They are often created for more than one year, so there are two and three years, it's serious teamwork, it's working groups that are composed not only of experts who work and people from great and long-term experiences working in the Ministry of the Interior, especially in the Department of Law, actually in this sector of the Interior Ministry. What has been significant since Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic heads the interior ministry, is that the voice of the NGO sector is significantly respected. Therefore, institutions that have been working on the ground and have been dealing with problems for many years, the most different ones, which are within the framework and which are similar in competence with the Ministry of the Interior. So these proposals are a fruit of work on the ground, a fruit of long-term co-operation, respect for many objections. We also heard today that the Citizens' Protector, at the time when they handed over these bill proposals, from October to December 2017, had certain objections. I would like the citizens in the coming period, and I am sure for our MPs that they will follow it in detail, see that in the coming days, through various amendments, and here to remind the public, not to remind, but to inform, I don't know how many people know, about 1,600 amendments are submitted to these 18 points of the agenda, as far as it is at this united point, which means that we are expected to do really serious, serious work. All the objections we have heard, that Serbian Progressive Party MPs have submitted a large number of amendments to these laws, mention some 300 amendments -- what is it with regard to these 1,300 that remain on these draft laws. What's he telling us about? That tells us how our parliament works. You have often heard in today's debate, but also in the previous period, that everything in the Assembly does not work the way the opposition imagined, that there is not enough democracy, that there is no respect for the procedure, that in the first place the advances and the ruling majority usurp the way in parliament, but the reality seems to deny you. So the possibility to endure this number of amendments, the possibility that you haven't thought about how realistic they are, how serious these amendments are, how much they're really going to improve the quality of life of the citizens you say you're fighting for, but that's for some other analyses in the next period. Before I continue to talk about these laws and to recapture today's debate, I would at this point address Minister Stefanovic, who otherwise has another function, role, position, whatever you call it. Nebojsa Stefanovic is also president of the Serbian Progressive Party City Committee. And before I continue to talk about these laws, I would like to congratulate Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic on the extraordinary result of three days ago – 44.99, translated in terms of mandates, it is 64 mandates of 110 in the Belgrade City Assembly. It is possible that this is a shift from discussion and that it is not about the agenda, but also about how, because it speaks about the seriousness and commitment of people, it speaks about the capacity of our people, it speaks about how serious and complex we are a team that can also deal with party activities, to take care of the better lives of citizens on the party side, what is our job, but at the same time it can perform important state functions. The post of interior minister is indeed one of the key positions in the state and all that Mr. Stefanovic did in the previous period is a really high-level scale, one level, and in political and state work, and I think many of us will follow in the coming period this very direction. The Serbian Progressive Party has raised criteria in many areas. I think that what we Serbian Progressive Party MPs are suffering in this House, that kind of humiliation, all of what you're giving us every step of the way, and that you won't let us raise our heads and boast about the results we've achieved, all that time will show that it's good that we're this patient. I expected you to be a little bit different, a little more serious, more dedicated, to start thinking about the needs of the citizens. But it seems to me that you're even more boastful, that you weren't interested in numbers and that here you are, and in these last days you're dealing with yourself and some interparty conflicts. We were really, and I wanted to say this again, on Sunday, congratulating, on Monday we were still dealing with party results, and after that we had already turned to parliamentary work, and that is why I wanted to highlight what it was that Mr. Stefanovic did as president of the Belgrade City Committee, but, right after that, we continued to do some serious state work, with such serious 18 draft laws. I won't specifically talk about these laws, not because I don't have time, there's plenty of time, and many opposition MPs have spoken right away, at the very beginning, and I'm losing three or four minutes of 20, where they say there's no time to talk about it, and in fact you can actually see that in 20 minutes you can talk about each of the laws with more than a minute. Don't forget, this is a principle debate, in a minute you and how you can tell about the essence and what it is that you object to that kind of law. There's one thing that matters. In order for you to be able to talk about these laws in such short time, you need to read them, you need to follow what experts, NGOs, independent institutions have talked about these bill proposals, and this all requires a lot more time and effort than you seem to have invested. But the citizens showed everything on Sunday, March 4, and assessed, whose seriousness, commitment and work they want in the coming period and who they want to give trust and responsibility to. We will talk about these laws in the coming days, especially through work in particular. What is good, besides that no one has said that these are bad bill proposals, and opposition and positional MPs, I am, therefore, the 15th today authorized in this House, it is very important that we underline one thing. All the laws we're going to talk about in the coming days are actually one serious normative framework, but indeed only a framework that gives us the opportunity to respect human rights, to protect human beings, to strengthen the legal security of both citizens and foreigners and those passing through our country's territory. More importantly, we get more transparent and clearer procedures through this normative framework. These were the objections in the context of European integration, in fact in the context of negotiations on European integration and in line with all those obligations that we have made with regard to European integration and in the general harmonisation of our national legislation with binding European directives, all of this is looked at in these draft laws. Only one who is truly extremely malicious can say that such bill proposals do not correct the lives of citizens in Serbia, that there is no serious long-standing expert work behind this, persuaded by the opinions of the people on the ground, by the NGOs, by independent institutions who are seriously following the drafts of the law. What Mrs. Komic said in her presentation, that's our attitude towards migrants, and that's what I'm going to end up with, it's a very important thing. I would like to, indeed, appeal to all my colleagues in this House, to think about how much your exposure can wake up action on the ground of any citizen, to be negative and to form a negative attitude and attitude towards migrants, asylum seekers, people who are going through a difficult period of their lives through the territory of our country, let not only the ruling majority show a positive relationship, not only that our legal frameworks are such that we decide on humanity and respect for human rights, let each of us promote a positive relationship with this extremely endangered group, which is going through a difficult period in our lives. We are here to influence the formation of public opinion. It's up to us to send positive messages, shape state policy, but we call on citizens to follow us in our actions. Once again, I would also like to thank the Minister and his associates for their efforts, and I hope that, after completing a more detailed analysis and by working in particular, we will indeed vote together on these bill proposals, which will significantly improve, simplify the lives of citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-07-0.u29091	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. We're done working for today. Thank you, Minister, thank you to all the MPs. We'll be back tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
