ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48976	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Radmilo Kostic and Djordje Milicevic. We continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda - the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Miss Minister. In the amendment to Article 3, we have changed two words in paragraph 2, and apparently this is not some change, compared to what it says that everyone has the right to protect against the consequences of disasters without discrimination. We expelled it “without any kind of discrimination, ” but wrote, “that everyone has the right to protect against consequences without discrimination on any basis.” This is similar, but it's definitely not the same, of course it's rejected. And when I proposed in the amendment that it be discrimination, i.e. to be “without discrimination by anyone” or any other basis, I meant the basics of religion, sex, racial or any other belonging. And then we come into a paradoxical situation that we from the Serbian Dvora Movement, who are often for various reasons, are most often political, because there are no other true ones we blame for all sorts of things, we suggest something that will not be adopted, and it makes sense. And how much does that make sense is the best thing that's been going on in some of the last few days in the Republic of Serbia, and what continues is that we have a situation where Mr. Ugljanin is burning fire, which he himself sees, is not provoking from anything, and he has made one very interesting statement this morning in which the president of the state has characterized as good president for Serbia, and the bad president, he says, for Bosniaks. I'm really confused with what's going on, but I'm even more surprised by the absence of a clear reaction of those representing power in this country. We had our chance, you weren't there, Ms. Minister, Mr. Stefanovic said the police would do their job, and then the judiciary wouldn't do its job. And now I'm interested, now it's a good thing in fact, I'd be happy if he were there, too, because I'd like to see that synchronization in the works, that I see who's really not doing his work, because we as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially the citizens of the Raška region, since I'm from the Royals, and also Novi Pazar and Tutin and Sjenica are in the Raška area, we have a certain kind of concern and we're asking whether or not someone will stand in the way of such statements and such behaviours as Mr. Ugljanin. I talked yesterday about how both the most numerous and ruling party in the state of Serbia has certain types of co-operation with Mr. Ugljanin's party and I am keenly interested in whether all these types of co-operation will be interrupted. There on August 17th or 16th, if memory does not deceive me, in 2017 an agreement was signed signed by Kenan Hot, Safet, last name I can't remember and Milan Petrovic I think from SNS, and the chairman of the SNS Executive Board, Mr Glisic, was present. So, the co-operation deal, I support, maybe it's weird for you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48978	Comrade Vesovic, please talk a little bit about the amendment. I've been listening to you for the fourth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48979	I will, the amendment is on whatever basis, and this is what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48980	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48981	So, religious impatience, the nationalities that Mr. Ugljanin's statements cause. I am now asking the Minister of Justice whether the prosecutions will take some steps, that the legitimate concern of the population in the Raška area, from where I am a national envoy, will be kind of driven away. People call me, people ask me if something's gonna happen. Now, if that bothers anyone, that I'm presenting the president's information, that this memo was signed with the date, with the participants who signed it, it's extremely important. I support that hand, but I say that now that the hand has been rejected, we have to take it as a serious state step, because if Mr. Ugljanin is talking about a Serbian state in Serbia that is fascist, we have to agree that this is a big problem, because Novi Pazar is 100 kilometers from the city of the Kings. I am the People's Messenger of the City of the Kings, and that's the relationship I'm talking about. That is why I wrote – on whatever basis, with a very good idea and intent, to highlight the need for co-operation both international and interfaith with each group. Of course, that's rejected. If I don't use more time, I'm convinced I won't get an answer, but I'd like to hear what Miss Minister thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48982	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48983	Article 107 says the speaker says that many things are paradoxical. There are a lot of paradoxical things for us in this presentation. First, what the Dvora people say in discrimination and in the amendment itself, taking into account first and foremost what has happened in the past and their relationship with some groups, especially when it comes to women. The second paradoxical situation is when it mentions the relationship of Sulejman Ugljanin to the president of the state, and remember that their relationship with the president of the state is not very different from that shown today by Sulejman Ugljanin. Just remember the post-election atmosphere after the election for the President of the Republic, when the people of Dvora and their allies brought posters on which they wrote – not my president. We haven't forgotten that. It's a paradox. It's a very big resemblance to what Suleyman Ugljanin is doing today. At the very least, the previous speaker is a man who does not have the right to speak about the situation, because his relationship is not very different to the president of the state from that of Suleiman Ugljanin in the Rasko area. I just wanted to remind you of this situation and all of us here and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48984	You have no right, colleague Vesovic, to a replica. Hold on. You've done a dozen injuries to the Rules of Procedure with your discussion, so you're going to wait quite a while. I tried to return my colleague Vesovic to his amendment, as I personally believe that this story about Sulejman Ugljanin should end with a quote said by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, that he should be the subject of the work of various state bodies, including health institutions. I think that's all said, but apparently some colleagues don't think that's enough. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (Milimir Vujadinovic: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 108 and Article 109. Regardless of your tolerance, Mr. Chairman, you should occasionally initiate some sort of sanctioning measure of MPs who speak as Ambassador Dvori used to say. Namely, I also claim that Bosniaks deserve a better leader than Suleiman Ugljanin. Approximately one people, one group is recognized by the leader. I don't want the Bosniaks to be recognized by the statements of Sulejman Ugljanin, but we also need to put our finger on the forehead and say what we did ourselves. Is the discrimination the MP tried to talk about when in the presence of Gilas, Boskomir tolerates statements that there are similar and inappropriate journalists, that some journalists are not actually journalists? Is it discrimination when you discriminate against the media, and so do the citizens who follow these media when you say that some media should be banned? It's more discrimination for me than he counted. I resent a lot of things to Suleyman Ugljanin, but I think the Bosniaks need to work it out between themselves. Of course, for condemning everything he said, but to imagine whether this coalition, an alliance of millionaires, in which Boskomir, Leprechaun and Gilas are the main levers, is their position that Empress Milica is the macro prostitute of her daughter Olivera, is that attitude a hatred, is that attitude a discrimination between us believers, us traditionalists who believe in the great sacrifice that Empress Milica had? Is that the official position of the coalition? Is it hatred and discrimination when you call for someone to be hanged on the terraces, and then you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is it discrimination when you call on us to bring down the regularly elected president of the Republic of Serbia? So when we talk about discrimination, Mr. Chairman, you need to draw attention to the previous speaker that he has to talk about the discrimination they are conducting by calling for a guerrilla struggle and violent overthrow of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48986	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48987	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106, part that says the speaker is obliged to stick to the agenda. Although you tried to intervene, you failed, because a previous speaker from the fake Patriotic organization Davery tried to play a patriot here, he tried to play some protector of Serbian national interests, the protector of the state, but don't you, Mr. Vesovic, to protect the state because there are organs...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48988	Please, no personal address, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48989	Here, I'll talk to you, so you tell him. There are the authorities of the Serbian state, there are institutions that should do this. I will remind you that just now the representatives of the SNS here were the first to take a position, the first to react, the first to condemn the scandalous behaviour of Mr. Ugljanin, and I will also remind you that the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, made it clear a few months ago – Suljo, there is no chair for you, Suljo you can't count on participation in power. So, a few months ago, Vukic said that, sent a message that way, condemned his scandalous behaviour, and as you just said, Mr. Chairman, and today the prime minister took a very clear position and sent a political message, and so I think that they are the last ones to play some patriots and some protectors of Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48990	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48991	Item 2 of Article 106. A few minutes ago, one of his colleagues said that he needed to interrupt another colleague who was speaking. We don't share that opinion. Everyone here has to say what they think they have to say and there's no reason why one part of the MP can speak beyond the agenda, the other one can't. In fact, everyone should be saying what they think Serbian citizens should hear from that group of MPs and that parliamentary group. Of course, citizens will one day in the elections assess how they understood who they were. You know, if yesterday, Maja Gojkovic, and rightly, let the MP Bacec blackmail her, to pose threats to the National Assembly with some kind of personal connection, etc., then anyone else can say what he thinks he should say. Indeed, Maja Gojkovic did well yesterday, just as the president of the National Assembly should do. Since it's normal to say a little bit in each reporting and let a sentence past what's strictly related to what we've reported, we lost our answer yesterday. Perhaps today the minister has an answer to what Minister Stefanovic did not have, and our question is, Mrs Kuburovic, did you consult in the government if Rasim Ljajic went to the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, especially after this statement by Ana Brnabic on Sulejman Ugljanin, will you continue to keep Rasim Ljajic as vice president, or Minister of Government? It's a very important question to sort out what's happening these days. Here, please, if you're able to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48992	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48993	Thank you, Chairman. Article 27. I believe that when Mr. Vesovic mentioned the steps we will take, and before that, agreements signed by people or agreements between SNS and the party of Sulejman Ugljanin. When someone says what steps we're going to take, we see that it implies that we break up some coalitions, we break up some friendships just because Suleiman Ugljanin said something. With all the condemnation of what he said, there are people there, there are neighbours of Serbs and Bosniaks whose friendships last longer than one political option lasts, and one political party. The steps we're going to take is that with this Kenan Kot, we're going to figure out how to solve the problem of the municipal enterprise, because he needs a vehicle, and a few days ago he was with the Belgrade City leadership to help him. The steps we will take is that my opinion as a Serb will not change according to the opinion of the Bosniak who voted or, in this case, the Ugljanin who is such a catastrophic... On the contrary, the people in the field, peace and friendship, are the consolidation of steps to fight against such ones, that they are the ones left alone in these ideas. What is the strongest message of the people? In previous presidential elections, Suleiman Ugljanin urged Bosniaks, e.g. in Sjenica, to support all but Alexander Vukic, therefore Sasha Jankovic. The Serbs in Sjenica have 18%, 19%. Alexander Vukic won 79% of the votes in Sjenica. That's the message, and that's the steps we're going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48994	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48995	Mr. Vice President, as the story of yesterday and yesterday continues today, it is quite clear that the parliamentary group that is here is a little further, on my right, continues the story that began long before the national council election. They didn't do the right thing. They helped Sulejman Ugljanin, a man whose conviction we clearly and unequivocally condemned his statement about what he said. So don't take it out now. You didn't do the job, you helped another opponent, and you let go of some of your new concern for the Bosniak national community. You know, Bosniaks are mature people, we live with them and live down in Sandzak or the Raška area and be assured that these people will clearly assess with whom and when they can go to any coalition. Do not speak in advance who will be with whom, the Bosniaks are a mature people, knows what is needed and what is right for them. Most of these people are tied to the state of Serbia. They're our citizens and let them think for themselves. You doing a bad job, doing a stupid job, that's your problem. Your problem is very big because you're a party of the past and a party that disappears. Your leader is already a distant past, he doesn't change, he's a plus-squamperfect, he really doesn't exist anymore. Now you're trying to pull yourself together, grab a straw, do some work. If you're an opposition, be an opposition. You should be happy now if there's a crack on this side. No, it doesn't exist. You see the uniqueness, we know what we want, the parliamentary majority, our majority knows exactly where it is going, and our message is, yes, Bosniaks are an integral part of Serbia, citizens of Serbia, we will do everything we can to make them better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48996	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, according to Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48997	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106, and as regards Article 109, the final position that it makes – if the MP acts contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So, counterpart Vesovic really didn't talk about the amendment at all. I understand that there is a width in the presentation and I understand that there is a presentation of your vision, but let's concentrate on the laws that are before us in the debate in particular. On the other hand, as regards Ugljanin, Minister Stefanovic himself has been answering similar questions over the past few days and should not repeat afterwards that, of course, the competent authorities, the competent institutions will worry about that. I sincerely hope that I am the last in a series of violations of the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to take advantage of this announcement and invite you to return the discussion to the right pace, which is a debate in detail on the draft laws that are very important to the citizens of Serbia that we need to talk about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u48998	I fully agree with you, colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. In accordance with this, I shall set a break, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, for 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49000	You, colleague Arsic, have just abused Article 112. You have the right to interrupt the session, but Article 112 is used, used, and is not there to abuse. It's not good that for days, or almost from the beginning of this call, you've been conducting the terror of the majority of the minority in the National Assembly. Imagine what it's like when an MP says, here's what I'm going to say to the Rules of Procedure, and then we're going to finish it, and you're going to accept it. It has nothing to do with parliamentary democracy. Read some book political system, I recommend Dr. Vojislav Seselj's book, it's beautifully explained there. A colleague, MP Mijatovic, is just trying to draw attention to what the real problem is. Neither do we Serbian radicals want anything bad to the Muslim religious community, nor have we ever said anything bad and ugly against the Muslim religious community. On the contrary, we greatly appreciate them and respect them and consider them brothers, we have them in our ranks, but it's not their problem. Their problem is something else. They do not know what will happen when Vukic decides that because of all this, Rasim Ljajic must be expelled from the government, because he cannot be with Sulejman Ugljanin and the Vucic government. These messengers do not know what they will do now, so they are recommended to you. We know that they will remain part of the ruling coalition, regardless of what Rasim will fly out of their power. They have already been defined and it is already a public secret, it is widely said that the party will be taken over by Vladimir Marinkovic. You've all heard that story, probably. That's a lot to talk about. So, once again we ask Mrs Kuburovic – will Rasim LJajic stay in the government if he goes to coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49001	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49002	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I'm advocating the 107th collapse of the National Assembly's dignity. This is probably what Laufer tipped off right now, and I can see that her colleague had a phone call before she answered her word. (The Faith of Radeta: Is it forbidden? No, nothing is forbidden. Mr. Arsic, you're a very serious man, you're great at running National Assembly sessions, you're very correct and democratic, but I've noticed that in the past few days, one of our fellow Members, or part of the MP's group, has been trying to run the session of the National Session and has been putting so much pressure on the topic of debate in the National Assembly, so I can see that it's as uncomfortable for you as it is for me when I sit up. I am uncomfortable, not because of me personally, not because of my parliamentary group, not because of Rasim Ljajic, but because of Minister Kuburovic, because of Minister Neboja Stefanovic and these people who came here to talk to the MPs about the draft laws that are on the agenda. We will continue to insist that the interests of Serbian citizens are our top priority and we will continue to focus on it, and those who think they can run the state, that's a colleague before and said and I see that she also claims to give President Vukic suggestions and tries to run the country from here instead, but he can't. He can go with this Ramzan Kadirov of ours, but he can't go with us or the Wolf or Rasim Ljajic. With your Ramzan Kadirov you can, but of course it's not democracy. We are for democracy. We are for discussion, and of course you can't distract me, you can't scare me, and neither can any of us. So I ask that the National Assembly declare themselves in the day of voting and not allow one parliamentary group, the opposition to lead parliament instead of us representing the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49003	As I see my colleague Marinkovic, we had only four minutes of work, and the rest of them were injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it is impossible that I had broken the Rules of Procedure so many times in those four minutes. Accordingly, I am re-determining a break regarding Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, for five minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. My colleague Vesovic, here you go, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49005	I'm gonna have to do it again now that I'm talking about the amendment, to get out of the amendment story, because I was told to act like a patriot, that I'm a fake patriot, that I have no right to speak in this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49006	My colleague Vesovic, I'd like to ask you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49007	You didn't give me any damage to Rules of Procedure, Article 104. It is true that you have the right to interpret whether I have the right to a replica, but I am mentioned by name, I am the deputy head of the parliamentary group, the most harshly interpreted of what I have said. How am I supposed to act as chairman now?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49008	Comrade Vesovic, you haven't talked about your amendment at all. Then you caused an avalanche here in the National Assembly, a reaction by the MPs who were natural and were not the basis to give you a replica, because they were injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Are you going to talk about the amendment now or are you going to replicate the MPs, I know?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49009	I agree that I haven't talked about the amendment chairing as much as everyone else has spoken by amendments these two days...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49010	My colleague Vesovic, no one has ever broken the Rules of Procedure and the agenda. I tried to get you back in the debate. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49011	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. The amendment under review has one important definition that all actions arising from obligations under these laws shall be carried out without discrimination. It is clear that this provision is necessary in law and formulation itself whether it will be without any discrimination or that there is no basis for discrimination is a language, just as much as it is not for discussion, but it is important to note why in laws it should sometimes say that the conduct of the competent during the management of emergency situations has to be conducted without discrimination. That provision in the law tells you two things. The first is that in our society the legislator sees discrimination. This means that you can see the treatment that is different from the personal property of the citizens of any state authority, because that is the definition of discrimination. Someone treats you differently based on the personality of the qualities that you cannot influence, whether it's gender, whether it's physics or mental state, whether it's skin color, whether it's your ethnic, national origin, but it's not something that you make as a decision of your life, it's your personal property, and no one has the right to treat you in society differently because you have different personal properties than most, and you represent a minority, which sometimes seems like a prey for most to discriminate against. The most obvious example is women, who are not a physical minority. On the contrary, most of them are, but they are exposed to discrimination because it is acceptable in society to discriminate on the basis of its personal property. And it is therefore important that the law be written down and binding on everyone who acts, that it is an act without discrimination. Because it shows the state's awareness that it was necessary to pass laws that prohibiting discrimination-based behavior, because prejudice and the will to discrimination cannot be prohibited. It's in the heads. But you can ban behavior based on that will and say it's illegal for us in society. This way of defining in the law is one additional, because it's not just about what's illegal, that you treat anyone differently, because it has a different similar property, but you enter a much more important part, which is illegality. It is not legitimate to treat someone differently because of his personal qualities. And our society will gain the legitimacy of a serious structured society, full of adult people who can talk and who can treat each other regardless of their personal characteristics, when such provisions no longer have to be in the laws when they are understood. For now, in any future situation, any social group, the law says, has the exact same treatment of behavior and treatment by anyone under the Emergency Management Act and catastrophes competent to react preventively, in recovery, in care, in communication, in any segment of which the law deals. It's a good thing you have that provision. It would be even better to talk more about such provisions in the law, because it would open up a space for adults in Serbia to talk to each other as adults, not for many things, to which we testify both in the institutions and in the media and on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49012	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Alexich, don't talk. What does this look like? I give you a warning, colleague Sarovic. (Inemnja Sarovic: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure, he does not. Keep going, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49013	Thank you, Chairman. But I can't talk when they're yelling behind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49014	We won't count on you for that time. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49015	So, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3, with the aim of expanding the formulation and adding, in addition to protecting and saving human lives, human health and safety protection, and that it has priority. Why am I saying this and why did we propose such an amendment? Because it's a key thing, I think, to prevent what we're talking about. I'm afraid we haven't learned from everything that's happened in the past few years, and above all, I'm thinking about the floods that took place in 2014. Then Serbia suffered the damages of a very large scale, and what was necessary was to learn from there and to move on with prevention, that everything that turned out badly then, we start to correct. Unfortunately, there's not enough money from the budget for this kind of thing, for a channel network, for defensive dikes, but that's why we have money for light tunnels, mazes, fountains, gondolas and some other stuff. The key question is priority. The issue of security and human health must be a priority for every country, including for Serbia. And when you look at the black statistics of accidents happening to the dedicated industries, therefore, not from natural disasters, which also warns that we must urgently, as a society, and you as a government, react to these situations. In the previous few years, therefore, on 14 July 2017, two workers were seriously injured in the factory "Milan Blagojevic – Najnska" in Lucanje. On February 28th, four people died in Kragujevac, 30 injured. On 15 May 2015, seven workers, etc. He's very bad and black, that balance. It is necessary, indeed, to take this issue seriously, and not when an incident occurs, as it happened at a factory in Luciani and when a journalist, such as Ms. Tatjana Vojtehovski, talks about it, then she is exposed to terrible attacks, pressures, convictions by the ruling regime. This must be talked about and met so that these things would no longer happen, not that people satanicize just because they speak of what is happening in society. So I urge you to adopt this amendment and extend this formulation that you have listed. I'm someone who came from the municipality and I was president of the municipality in 2014. We were one of the municipalities that suffered very great consequences from the flood. All these consequences came from the outpouring of the West Morava River, which flooded thousands of hectares of fertile orans and land. From 2014 until today, 2018, absolutely nothing has been done in this work. Absolutely nothing. In one part of the West Morava stream is now about regulating the trough, because the gas pipeline is at risk, otherwise, if not such a flood happens but also smaller, we will have problems. The floods took place in 2015 and 2016. Here, look at the Lucians. There was also a flood in Luciani in 2017, and an emergency was introduced in 2018. What did we do as a society? What have you done as a state to prevent what happened in 2014 and 2015, both in Luciani and in other cities in Serbia, and in my Triestenik, from happening anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49016	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Palalych, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49017	Mr. Vice President, I would like to point out the importance of this provision of the law, because on the one hand it indicates that reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations is being put as a national and local priority. On the other hand, there has been a lot of talk here about how discrimination is treated in this law. I really have no understanding for my fellow Members who have submitted amendments and who are asking for this provision to be deleted, because it is totally unacceptable that in this situation where the protection of human life is put as a priority, the issue of discrimination wants to be thrown out of this law. There has been a lot of talk here about different forms of discrimination, but I want to point out another form that is very important and where the Government of the Republic of Serbia has just shown that and in any way, it does not want to discriminate against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This wasn't about political discrimination. It did not exist at any time in 2014, when floods, catastrophic floods affected the Republic of Serbia. No municipality, which at that time had a majority, which was contrary to the ruling majority, was in a situation that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not show assistance. There are works, we can say that these works are now here, into this new law translated into words. There is no political discrimination against any municipality in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the protection of security, the protection of human lives or any other form that is important for the functioning of any municipality, regardless of the political majority. This law, with this provision, says that the political equality of citizens, when it comes to protecting human lives, is at the highest level, that the government of the Republic of Serbia respects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49018	I thank my colleague Palalic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic! ) Here are my colleagues, Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49019	I thank the chairman. The reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management is a national and local priority. In this regard, I would like to stress the importance of the Emergency Sector with this amendment. Given the problems that have arisen in the application of certain provisions, which concerned the making of an assessment of the threat and the development of a plan for protection and rescue, it is now more precise who makes these documents and how they are made. Another concept whose meaning is precise is the operational headquarters. What I would also mention is the possibility given here to the Republic Staff, which is that it can disband headquarters for emergency situations of the local self-government unit, if it is estimated that it does not perform protection and rescue tasks in accordance with the law or does not make timely decisions, knowing how important effective action is. It is very easy to conclude that to a large extent this law will also affect the safety of our fellow citizens and material and natural goods. I also wanted to say that I believe that the National Assembly is certainly a place to say who is working against Serbia, and these are these days people who run the local self-government of Sabac and Paracino. I will give you the impression of the head of our delegation at the Congress of the Local Authorities of the Council of Europe, Professor Zoran Perisic, who said in his tweet - five years I have been in the Council of Europe and I have never heard of a speaker insulting his country until today. Zelenovic of Sapca and Paunovic of Paracin attacked their own state, seeking an alibi for unhappiness and failures, all criticising their own decisions from the past. I think this message is all about them. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49020	The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49021	Thank you. The proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations provides the possibility for local self-government units to take more active participation in the formation of civil protection units, then develop risk assessments, education of emergency headquarters, study of coverage of the public alarm system, but also establishing co-operation with neighbouring local self-government units. The law stipulates that the competencies I have just mentioned also apply to the city's municipalities of Belgrade. Well-organised local self-governments play a key role when rapid response is needed, for example in the event of evacuation, but also in the event of timely informing citizens. Their contribution is also important, especially when it comes to raising citizens' awareness, that responsibility is on them in certain situations. This law prescribes the obligation of citizens to participate in protection and rescue, and we all have to see ourselves as part of the protection system. In this way we create an efficient integrated system of national security, connecting cities, municipalities, the province with the Republic, which is a major step forward compared to the current legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49022	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic! ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49023	Comrade Arsic, I appreciate your efforts to put this session in order and talk about agenda topics. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, because I think it is very important to strengthen the Emergency Sector, and this also shows the risk register that this law first introduces, which will represent an interactive electronic database on all risks and dangers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, for the first time, software has been introduced whose purchase funds have been secured from donations and all risk data will be processed in one place and in a unique way. The base will have accessibility levels, as certain specific risks will be protected and made available only to the competent authorities of the state administration. Another reason why the Emergency Sector needs to be strengthened is the fact that this bill provides for a direct risk zone, which will prevent construction in those areas. This has special significance, given that in the past period we have had many illegal constructions in risk zones. The Emergency Sector, together with construction inspections in local self-government, should play a key role in the control of wild construction in risk-taking places. The amendment I have submitted further defines Article 3 of this Act. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49024	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! (Verica Radeta: I'll be in touch with you after the amendment. Is that forbidden? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49025	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs... I've got a microphone, unlike the ones that don't, so I'm going to outvote them. In accordance with the provisions of the Water Act, a set of measures and activities aimed at maintaining and improving the water regime was formed. It includes the Ministry of Agriculture, Environmental Protection, the Republic Water Directorate and the bodies of local self-government units. The government has brought a general plan to defend against floods for first and second-row waters and for internal waters. The measures shall also be taken preventively during the occurrence period. Given the fact that threats and threats of natural disasters are growing and are increasingly on the global level, the Ministry of Interior as a good host is thinking ahead, to prevent and pre-warn the effects of floods, because in their composition is the Emergency Sector that is on the first line of defense. The existing system was established on the principles defined by the Emergency Act, which laid the basis for building a single system and defined the position and role of all entities of the system, from the Government through competent authorities and institutions to individuals. This country takes care of its citizens, so I have to point out the following. Last year, funds were paid to the city of Belgrade to compensate for the city's damage to the City of Dubon Mesnak community, which belongs to Mladenov. The funds paid on behalf of the removal resulting from the damage caused by the heavy rainfall, followed by the city and the stormy wind amounted to 10,408.028 dinars for 48 agricultural holdings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49026	Bring the end, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49027	So far in the City Municipality of Mladenovac no compensation has been made, this is the first case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49028	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! (Miss Radeta: By Amendment! ) According to the amendment, the word has been given by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49029	Mr. Arsic, you really should take a long break right now. You no longer have the concentration to run the session. What are you nervous about? Why don't you let the People's Messengers speak according to the Rules of Procedure? How can you say that if someone calls and says, "By the Rules of Procedure, you say: 'I give you a warning?' We understand that you are a difficult situation and we understand that you may today be the one to announce that you will leave Rasim Ljajic behind after this explanation, because he said, to explain that it is the state of Serbia a fascist state, that in Serbia there are, Mrs. Kuburovic, parallel judicial authorities, parallel police authorities, etc. Now, with this Sulja Ugljanin, Rasim Ljajic will make and wants to make a coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49030	My colleague Radeta, it's not according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49031	It's very much by amendment, very much by amendment. These are emergency situations, it's the subject of this law and all these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49032	Elections for national minority councils?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49033	Elemental accidents. Rasim LJajic is an elemental accident, Suljo Ugljanin is an elemental accident. Are you Rasim Ljajic, if he goes to the coalition for the National Council with Ugljanin, will you keep him at the post of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Government? It's such a simple question, and you're avoiding the answer, and worst of all, you're not letting the MPs speak. Then this lady who only comes here when it takes five minutes to make a statement, to see her aunts and aunts on TV, then she says to you – it's good, colleague Arsic, that you are introducing order. What order? You're introducing order not to let the MPs speak? Or the one with the flower says she's louder because she has a microphone. You're neither louder nor stronger. My people, don't tempt us. We want to talk to the Rules of Procedure, we want to talk about the most recent topic in Serbia. The topic is also a question – will Vučić, Brnabic, ministers, the assembly majority keep Rasim Ljajic in the Serbian government, if Rasim Ljajic concludes a coalition agreement with Sulejman Ugljanin, for which the state of Serbia is a fascist state? Thank you. We're waiting for an answer. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49034	According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! It's the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49035	Dear colleague Arsic, dear minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to be correct to you in particular, I will be very brief and I do not want to cause any replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Then tell him to give me a word. I know the challenges you face when simply someone doesn't want to accept working in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and calling people, ministers in the Government, it doesn't matter if it's any citizen... . Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... which he performs, to say to someone that he's an elementary accident, not that it's incorrect, but really exceeds the basics of culture and some level of home education. I think we should maintain the level of dignity and dignity of this high and respected home. Well, that's what you said up there. Well, please, that's what you said. I just want to help you, of course, I won't insult anyone, as I've never done in these seven years and continue to lead the session as you've led, you're a brave man and you're doing it quite correctly. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49036	A colleague of Radeta's, after the amendment? Here you go. (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49037	I just wanted to congratulate you on your courage because you don't allow MPs to speak according to the Rules of Procedure. It's not courage, it's insolence, and Marinkovic obviously supports this insolence, and what he was saying about his colleagues, I heard it from him upstairs at the chair chair. He told me that a colleague shows up just to be listened to by aunts and aunts on television... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49038	My colleague Radeta, please. I do not dispute that I have learned many things in politics about the work of the MPs personally from you. One of the things I've learned is that what's being discussed between two people, two MPs, not to be used, and even when it's four, it's not to be used in debates. The other thing is, it's not even about the agenda. The third thing, according to the Rules of Procedure, is that when the chairman breaks his Rules of Procedure, most of them are, not mostly, but all 100% of the reports in the Rules of Procedure today were purely political topics and it took some time, but it must be over once. So please, the chairman may disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly under certain conditions, but most often fellow MPs do, and I ask you for the personal integrity of each of us here to allow me to continue the session on the agenda. If there really is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you'll get the word, in this case we should keep working. So, why did you interrupt us now? I interrupted you, that part I learned from you, that you don't have to work right now. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49039	There, I broke something. So you're not working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have violated the Rules of Procedure 100 times because you have not given so many times to the People's MPs to speak according to the Rules of Procedure when they wanted to. That's enough for the injury. But there's something else I want to tell you, you're saying that our injuries to the Rules of Procedure and our reports are turning into political speeches, and I've come to cross over. Well, this is the National Assembly, we're politicians, we're MPs, so this isn't the market, of course we're talking about, that we're expressing the political views of our political parties and the citizens who chose us. Of course, we also explain to those who will choose us what you do and that we also tell those who choose us that we have not yet received an answer to the question whether Rasim Ljajic will remain in the government of the Republic of Serbia if he concludes a coalition agreement with Sulejman Ugljanin, who said Serbia is a fascist state and that there are parallel judicial, judicial and police authorities in Serbia. Tell you what, is that it? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49040	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Ognjanović. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49041	I thank the chairman. Here, I'll go back to the amendments, work a little bit. The Honorable Minister and Associates of the Emergency Risk Reduction and Management Act implies an organised emergency response system. As the Water Act provides for a whole range of water facilities to protect against floods, erosions and floods, I believe that this law will greatly improve the organisation, risk assessment, prevention and defence of floods in the future. In previous years, we have had the opportunity to feel how much the previous government did not take care of the risks that existed and how badly the facilities needed to control and direct water flows were. We've suffered a lot of damage and casualties. Today in Serbia, we have a whole series of works and completed facilities that have raised the level of protection against floods and floods. The right side of the river Lugomir and the river Belica along the river Jagodna was rescheduled. Rehabilitation of the right bank of the Ravanica Korita was carried out in Ćuprija. Rehabilitation of the coastal troughs in Krupanj, Loznica, Paracina, Smederjevska Palanca and other places. All of these are works undertaken by the "Serbian" and all of these have contributed to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with an emphasis on prevention of flood and flood and flood protection, and thus directly affecting the increase of living standards and the safety of the population and achieving the right to protection against disasters and disasters. That's why I'm in Article 3. The bill proposed an amendment that further defines encouraging the development of the Republic of Serbia and preventing the effects of floods. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49042	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49043	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Kuburovic with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this amendment is further defined by Article 3 of this law in order to put emphasis on the resolution of the consequences of any disaster, of any elemental disaster, and of the floods that may be unfortunately, we were convinced in May 2014 with disastrous consequences. The main objective of this bill is to prescribe obligations to local self-governments to make plans on preventive measures and actions to be taken to reduce the risk of disasters, to respond more effectively in cases of emerging disasters, and to remove their consequences more effectively in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work on affected space. Accordingly, and above all in line with the adopted Sendai documents in 2015, taking into account the modern comparative solutions in this area, these draft laws are put first in the plan. The paper in this bill is that for the first time, emphasis is placed on international co-operation both in the area of prevention and in the domain of providing, or receiving humanitarian aid. And President Alexander Vukic's efforts are indeed aimed at good international co-operation through all spheres of life. When it comes to reducing the risk of disasters, this law builds on an existing system, defined by the Emergency Law, that is to say, removing everything that has been shown to be insufficiently effective in practice. Responsible leadership by implementing the SNS programme acts in every field of social life, so the SNS will vote for this programme in the voting day. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49044	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49045	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Justice Ministers and Associates, honourable MPs, today we are talking about a bill that is very important, a bill that will adequately improve the country's response to emergency situations and possible natural disasters, i.e. disaster. Namely, Article 3 of this law, which I have submitted to the amendment, is currently talking about two aspects of this problem. The first aspect of this problem is to prevent, or define all those measures without any discrimination on any basis. And what is particularly important is, there is one fact that we should be proud of all together, especially the party authorities, which in 2014, during the catastrophic May floods, that there was no state reaction and the introduction of emergency headquarters in Šapac, Shabac as a city would have been flooded. So, despite the opposition holding the opposition, despite the fact that there are all kinds of objections and criticisms on the subject, this is a fact that everyone will obviously agree on. What is also very important, one very important aspect of this law that is defined in Article 3. We can say that this is one aspect, in fact, where man, human being, human life and human health are placed in the seat of this system, that is, this law in this case. According to this law in Article 3. Saving people's lives, so man as the most important resource represents the essence of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49046	I thank my colleague. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, pal. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49047	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The disaster risk reduction and emergency management system necessarily implies the engagement of a large number of entities and exceeds each of the identified resolutions of individual institutions. The established principles of work of state bodies, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government are based on mutual co-operation and exchange of information, including partnership and communication with economic operators and citizens. The disaster in the territory of Loznica, which can't be remedied, has caused the previous regime of the haughty business of the "Farmacoma" in Zajaca by causing health and environmental damage to all peoples of Zajaca and the environment. That's where the emergency stays forever. The fact that 80% of the children sampled had lead in their blood beyond the allowed upper limit, that water should not be used even as technical, that land is full of harmful agents and other heavy metals, that the most common diseases in the area are malignant diseases. I propose that the owner and his associates share their profits, which is only in Zajaca about 20m euros with the people of Zajaca and the environment in order to at least small compensation for the damage done to them by health and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49048	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49049	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management to further define the member mentioned. The accent was particularly placed on the reduction of the risk of car accidents. It is important to point out that the bill that we are now talking about, as well as other draft laws on the agenda, is there to protect, in order to preserve security in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, equal for every citizen, every city, every municipality and every mayor and every president of the municipality who uses the opportunity when they perform in Europe or in the world speak negatively about this state, about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about the President who makes every day an effort to make investments, to make dear new roads, railways, to keep people busy, to preserve peace and stability for every citizen, and for them in this country. The President of the Republic of Serbia, by implementing the SNS programme, has indeed contributed to creating a good environment for work, growth and development. And in order for this to be present, first of all, there must be as little crime as possible, there must be no serious, serious, or any crime. We need to work to improve the safety of traffic, the safety of children. I would take the opportunity if Minister Stefanovic had noticed during his visit to the Ub municipality what the situation was like there and expressed great satisfaction that it was simply in such an environment, to feel stability among the citizens. The Ub municipality and the MUP really have great co-operation. In terms of preventive action, the municipalities have done much, and we hope that if some situations arise, we will respond responsibly, coordinatedly and effectively to such challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49050	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49051	Thank you, Chairman, dear Mrs Kuburović, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, where I propose that this member extends to attitude 3 and puts a special accent on the significance of the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters. Just in view of the floods that hit us in 2014 and the human sacrifices we suffered, but also the great material damage, we are obliged to learn from these tragic experiences and to do everything to warn and prevent similar disasters and these unkind events from happening again. The definition of cause, knowledge of risk, but also raising awareness when it comes to the importance of prevention, as well as timely and adequate response in such crisis situations are really crucial when it comes to emergency situations. What is provided for by this law is certainly strengthening the role of citizens, but also increasing the responsibility of crisis headquarters and the duty to act on such decisions, in order to raise our defence system and respond to the dangers that are threatening and which may potentially happen. That is why I would like to point out exactly the importance and role of local self-government in this system of protection and responsibility when it comes to the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters, because all of this together is a system that represents an adequate response from our country in terms of the protection of the population. The assessment of the threat to natural disasters and other accidents, as well as the assessment of the impact of all risks on the values to be protected in the best interests of citizens, and I therefore think that this member should be extended by the position I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49052	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubiša Stojmirović. Here's a colleague of Stojmirovic's. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49053	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Risk Reduction and Emergency Management is one law that Serbia currently needs. It is normal for anyone who thinks well of Serbia to support this law and will make every effort to make this law do what is meant for Serbian citizens. Every year, Serbia faces major material damages caused by both human and elemental disasters, which are very often affecting all corners of our country. This year, Black Grass had this problem that it was hit by an elemental disaster that destroyed a large part of the infrastructure, rural roads, bridges and the like. Even a state of emergency has been introduced. The estimated damage to these natural disasters is about 30 million. You can imagine what that means for a municipality with a budget of around 167 million. To warn that, I believe that we will proactively start to meet, as we meet with such elemental disasters, and that we will slowly prevent it. Black Treva has also filed a request from the MUP to allow the opening of a fire unit in Black Treva. The local self-government is even ready to support the action by means of financial means, and we look forward to approval of the opening of a fire department in Crno Trava. Can you figure out what happens if there's a bigger fire, if we have to wait for a fire unit from Leskovec, which is 50 miles away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49054	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. I'm right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49055	The amendment of counterpart Stojmirovic should be accepted, but the argument should be expanded slightly. He's speaking with a special view of the risk of flashes, and it's really a problem. We have a bigger problem, a stream of separatism coming in from New Market. What Sulejman Ugnjanin does is no longer anything but open separatism, an open attack on the state of Serbia, the calling Serbia a fascist plant, a statement that we have parallel authorities of the judiciary and police in Serbia, and what else is it saying, but it's just talking about the growing separatism. You still won't tell us if Rasim Ljajic will stay in the government if he supports and makes a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, which is currently open in that anti-state, anti-Serbian flood of separatists. If he makes a coalition with him, please tell us more, will Rasim Ljajic, as coalition partner of such Sulejman Ugljanin, remain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Well, there's no clearer question, and the answer can only be yes or no, if you can't explain it, but let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49056	I don't answer questions about what would happen if it were. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: By Business, Arsic! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Savkic's, please. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49057	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, which reads: "The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the recovery of floods." During the application of the Emergency Act, there was a need for a new law to more precisely define certain provisions that would further explain and affect more efficient and precise application. In this way, the demarcation of competence is carried out, i.e. ensuring that each subject to the protection and rescue system knows exactly his rights and obligations, as well as what consequences arise if the law is not respected. The aim of the bill is to establish the highest standards in this area and achieve a higher level of security for citizens in the area of disaster protection. In this connection, there is also international co-operation that is envisaged in all stages of this common protection, humanitarian aid from the resolution of the consequences. This aspect is also a significant example that illustrates the importance of international assistance. The Republic of Serbia from the EU IPA Funds in 2014 received 198m euros primarily for the restoration and recovery of the 2014 floods. Experiences gained so far, especially during the May floods in 2014, but also other minor-intensity disasters, have pointed to the shortcomings and limitations of the existing system. All of this is removed by the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and removing emergency situations and thus contributes to the efficiency of the resolution of floods, but also to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49058	Thank you, colleague Savkic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Malušić. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49059	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable minister with ministry associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 to explain how the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to flood prevention. Namely, every natural disaster has seen some weak points in the population in Serbia and Serbia's economy, which, given climate change, deserve special attention and require measures to be taken to reduce the risk of natural disasters. Improving, strengthening and expanding flood defence systems, predicting floods and preventive activities, as well as physical planning in order to avoid houses and facilities for the production of materials in flood-friendly areas being some of the activities necessary to take place in the near future. The government has set up a flood crisis headquarters within the Emergency Sector under the MUP along with crisis centres that exist in each of the affected municipalities, or cities. These crisis teams co-ordinated the work of 16 ministries in 2014, unfortunately, when we were hit by a catastrophic flood - the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, and all the way to the Foreign Ministry, that means 16. The recovery needs relate to the financial resources needed to help the affected population regain their pre-float revenue, to restore the provision and access to business services in the fields of health, education, water supply, cleanliness, etc. The recovery needs represent the financial resources needed to repair and rebuild the destroyed material goods and infrastructures according to the standards prescribed for construction that is resistant to natural disasters. These needs for recovery and reconstruction are expected to be financed by a combination of state resources and funds from private sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49060	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49061	The respected chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Emergency Law, which is on the agenda, drew all the experiences from 2014, both positive and negative, and improved and certainly adapted to the needs and potential emergency situations as a preventive action. The adoption of this law will lead us to be more prepared and to expect an emergency in the best possible way. I'll remind you, floods in 2014, an emergency situation that has shown that exactly the emergency situation, floods, droughts, fires, does not distinguish the parties and does not distinguish the city administrations or local ones. It only distinguishes whether or not it will be, and at the time of the emergency in 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted in the right way, even to all those, no matter who it was and how it came to power and who was in power at the time. We had a situation in Sapac, where the mayor, along with MP Dusan Petrovic, Milos Milosevic, sat down and waited for Sava to flood the town of Sabac. He did not literally do anything, but thanks to the president of the Republic of Serbia, at the time the prime minister, the citizens of Sapca and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia responded to his invitation, but of course the Army did. I once again take the opportunity to thank General Dikovic, who at the time led the emergency headquarters. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) We have defended the Sabac, we have defended the face of the Serbian people and we have defended the future, and the future is precisely that in difficult situations we react in the best possible way, no matter who it is or how it came to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49062	Thanks, buddy. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Tiana Davidovac. The word has been given by the messenger of the people, Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49063	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to remind you of the great disaster that struck us in 2014. The floods affected 1.6 million residents in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia, causing a cost of 1.7 billion euros to resuscitate property and infrastructure. The temporary loss of work hit 51,800 people, and it is estimated that 125,000 citizens fell below the poverty line in 2014. Teached by such experiences, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was in 2014, when Mr. Vukic was prime minister and now that we have Prime Minister Ms. Ana Brnabic, every year invested in prevention. In his opening statement, Minister Stefanovic presented information that one dinar was invested in prevention, we can free ourselves of eight dinars that would be invested in the resolution of the consequences. The prevention is from local self-government. It is necessary to draw up strategic and planning documents to determine how best to operate in similar situations. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown by this law that it is leading one responsible, financial, budgetary and economic policy and in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49064	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jevtic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49065	In the previous amendment, I mentioned that, after the withdrawal of water, a complete recovery of the terrain that involved disinfection, disinfection, deratification as mandatory procedures was carried out, of course, to prevent disease and to prevent epidemics. As for biological decontamination, it was, of course, carried out at the death sites of animals, slaughterhouses of farms, silos, cattle markets, transport vehicles that carried out the transport of these very dead animals. Public Health Services played the biggest role, of course, and they were just there to implement all these measures necessary to avoid the spread of infectious diseases, or what I already mentioned was disinfection, disinfection and deratization. The most delicate tasks, of course, were just conducting sanitary-hygienic and, of course, sanitary-technical measures on contaminated terrains, such as cattle markets, farms, stables and animal asylums. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Disinfection is done by chemical means. The role was just to kill some of these microorganisms that can contribute to the spread of infectious diseases and, of course, an epidemic. Disinsection was mandatory precisely for reasons because insects are somewhere vectors that carry exactly these infectious diseases that can be terrible for people, because they are transmitted, or common, and they are zoonoses. In the end, the deratization, of course, is again rodents as vectors in the transfer of these infectious diseases and there is a circle circle. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( ) What I finally wanted to point out is that these floods, which have occurred, have shown some humanity and great solidarity among people, which I would not say right now where I am. It's just that I was proud to be a part of that people right now, and the motion to adopt this law shows that the Resort Ministry has shown a high level and has realized that certain things need to be changed in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49066	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49067	Thank you, Chairman. In light of this law, relating to an earthquake particularly apostropheed by this amendment of mine, I will say that such a law was passed and implemented eight years ago in the King, the yellow group would not become popular by evil, but by good, but unfortunately, the citizens of the Kings remember them well. We don't have to spend a lot of words here reminding citizens who stole their future, who privatized the companies at the expense of their friends and the mecca, who emptied the state register, who closed their jobs and who left them and their children without bread on the street. It wasn't the jobs that Alexander Vukic closed. On the contrary, he opened them and opened them every day, every day, over. Jobs have been closed by Djilas, Jeremic, Stefanovic and their other friends in the job gathered now around the Alliance for Rape and Hanging. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The same Alliance for Serbia, i.e. the Alliance for Raping and Hanging, or the Alliance for Change, as they called it, hoping that someone would think that they were ready and determined to change and return what they had taken from them, created the alliance with the idea of coming out together for the elections and victory of the SNS, and had already given up during the first exam. They have decided not to participate in local elections in Kula, Kladov and Doljevac. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. How will people believe that they want to change anything if they don’t believe it themselves? They know who they are even if they're disguised. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) As one of my fellow citizens said a few days ago describing them – these bad guys who stole everything they could, now they decided to be good sausages, and instead of old and drawn yellow, put on new, colorful uniforms of some covenant for change and tell all sorts of new stories, so they thought that the people in disguise wouldn't recognize them, but the people all and that they couldn't forget the ones who had stolen the future that sold everything they could, the factories, destroyed the economy, left the people out of work. As long as Serbia remembers, there is hope for it, but there is no Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49068	Thank you, colleague. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Cokic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49069	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, we can't all take on the positive impression that the Red Star created last night by winning, and it's an even better impression that our fans caused at that game. I think it's also connected to the fans' behavior law. Just last night, they showed how fans should behave at a sports event and how the law should be respected. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) What is important when it comes to emergency situations is that they happen, pass, leave behind consequences, that it is very difficult to eliminate, help people who have found themselves, in particular, in the flood wave. Yesterday I was saying that the authorities were often changing, they weren't always the same in the city and at the level of the Republic, but always, but always, the MUP and our firefighters were at the height of the task of matching the equipment they were equipped with at the time. Now they have much better equipment, because much has been invested in the equipment of these units and are better paid and should be paid better. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) It is a security for this country that in similar situations we will be able to solve the problems that arise faster and get out of them and allow other segments of society to develop. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49070	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Popovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49071	Thank you, Chairman. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reduction of the risk of an outbreak of infectious diseases implies and investment in prevention and improvement of healthcare at all levels. The municipality of Nova Varoš as a unit of local self-government achieves its role in the disaster protection system, including through investments in health care. Thus, the municipal budget in the past few years has been set aside to raise health care levels close to 20 million dinars. In addition to the reconstruction and adaptation of facilities, the purchase of sanitary and field vehicles, significant means are defined for the purchase of modern medical and computer equipment. The funds from the Nova Varoš municipality's 2018 budget amounted to five million dinars spent on the purchase of a field vehicle, modern ECG apparatus, a microscope for a cytologic laboratory, cardiotographs, pulse oxymeters and other apparatus necessary for rapid and precise diagnostics. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) At the same time, the government of the Republic of Serbia has continuously invested in health institutions in Novi Varoša, so over 50 million dinars have been allocated over the past few years for the purchase of sanitary vehicles for the reconstruction of facilities, as well as for the purchase of modern medical equipment. Following the objectives of this law, the resilience of society will be improved, and a higher level of community readiness to face and respond to risks will greatly mitigate possible catastrophic consequences. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49072	The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a word. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49073	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law, and it is clear in Article 3 of the proposed law that there can be no discrimination under the conditions when people's lives are at stake. Nemanja Sarovic: So there is no discrimination? ) This kind of discrimination is practically on the 2030 UN Agenda, which discusses sustainable economic and overall development. If you look at article 6. Agent, then you realize that one of the key objectives of the Agenda is number six. - the supply of drinking water. If you look at these six agendas, or seven sub-targets, you can understand the importance of drinking water. In the first subparagraph, it is said that drinking water must be available to everyone and must be cheap. Another objective is the need for water to be available to the entire population and introduces the concept of gender equality. In the third objective, it is said that there is a need for coordination in the functioning of bodies within the state, including inter-border co-operation. The fourth objective is to protect the source of drinking water. The 7th objective says it is necessary to establish interstate co-operation in the process of ensuring functional conditions for drinking water security. The seventh, which is terribly significant and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia certainly does, is said to increase local resources, local communities, to make water streams, drinking water acceptable. It is indisputable that Serbia has no problem with drinking water at this time, but if you look that in the last hundred years only 17 years it has had normal conditions in operation, that 51 years has been dry, then it is certainly normal that this law is trying to eliminate the dangers it is threatening and, of course, that the Serbian government is there to solve these problems. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49074	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. You have to give me your word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49075	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the amendment I submitted to Article 3. The bill, relating to the resolution of the city's consequences, I want to take this opportunity to praise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government's decision to invest in an automatic anti-urban protection system. For the first time, Serbia will receive an automatic anti-building protection system and 25m euros will be invested for these purposes. It is commendable that in the last 60, 70 years, it has not been invested in anti-urban protection. It's already started with investments, so the contract for the purchase of the anti-building protection system is closed for the Valjevo radar system. When it comes to the MUP, also any praise for the ministry's work, because just over three years ago, for the first time in eight years, our police received two sets of uniforms and boots. The previous regime allowed police who are doing the hardest work for Serbian citizens, who defend the right of our people to freedom, who care for our security, to literally go in torn uniforms and shoes. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) It is also important that the job of sewing uniforms has just been obtained by a Serbian company located in southern Serbia, which is the company from Vranja Jumko, which means that the production capacities of Serbian businessmen are expanding. Congratulations to the police minister for listening to the needs of the people on the ground and for never being paid more in the police than they are now. So all the money of the Republic of Serbia's budget is fully in the role of citizens, whether it's about preventive action, whether it's about security or employment. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49076	Thank you, colleague Charapic. Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the peoples of Ambassador Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Inemnja Sarovic: I want a word in the Rules of Procedure. For an hour and 15 minutes, I've been looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Here's my colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49077	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have been discussing these important laws for several days now, and we know how difficult it is to be in an emergency situation, but I am sorry that my colleague from Triestenik Alexic, is not here to remind him that in 2014, when our Rasinski County, our Serbia, when the catastrophic floods happened, he was at the head of Triestenik absolutely did nothing for that municipality. He forgot that Mr. Bratislav Gasic from Kruševac sent trucks with water to give the people at risk anything to satisfy, and while Gasic was doing it, the gentleman was hunting. So there was absolutely nothing he was doing for the Triestenik municipality. The same one today attacked the government, the state, all the ministries, but it does not hesitate to take from the state everything that is supposed to belong to it, so it knows that it uses both the Ministry of Agriculture and all the rest of the ministries only when the money it gargles in its pocket. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )... And while he was the president of the municipality, he only cared about his personal status, his incomes, so here's the full list of Mr. Alexic's receipts. I'm sorry he's not here, so if he can possibly deny me, he's just doing it on social networks, along with his few bots, as many as there are, there are as many of them in the People's Party in Triestenik, but he's not in the workplace. And that's what the citizens of the Rasin Orkrug, the citizens of Triestenik should know. But it's probably the support of two votes in native Milutovac, too, because citizens see what that man is doing. I hope that Serbian citizens also see what Jeremic's errand boy is doing, so he will receive support in the next elections. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49078	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49079	Off microphone): Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, esteemed fellow MPs, and this amendment will remind me of the catastrophic natural disasters since May 2014, especially institutional coordination during the disaster. Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Despite restrictions on financial resources and operational capacity, in response to the floods, the government successfully exploited a strong institutional framework for coordination, authorities at national and local levels provided leadership and coordination of emergency response support and thus facilitated the rapid provision of assistance to affected areas. In accordance with the Emergency and Civil Protection Act, the National Emergency Management Staff managed the coordination and management of the overall response to floods and the coordination of actions to deploy a number of participants in response to floods and deployment of experts and accompanying and logistics units in affected areas. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) At national level, the Emergency Sector provided experts and technical and operational support to the National Staff. The coordination and management of rescue activities relied on key experts from scientific institutions, public utility companies, fire departments, emergency aid and city rescue services. (I Nemanja Sarovic: Arsic, give me your word in the Rules of Procedure. ) Under the leadership of the National Staff at the state level, certain municipal bodies are designated as co-ordination and management partners in response to emergency situations on the ground. The emergency coordinated response management was led on the basis of already existing flood plans that had previously been developed for flood-related areas. The government of the Republic of Serbia acted responsibly at critical times. It was for our country's happiness in the accident that the government of the Republic of Serbia took over at full capacity SNS with Alexander Vukic at the helm. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Imagine the chaos that would have arisen if the earth had been headed by a set of furniture that had come to power on the wave of fire in this high house. The same ones who threaten to start hanging political inexperiences again today. Unfortunately for them, Serbian citizens said in the elections that the country's political past was. Therefore, in the voting day, I will support this and all other bill proposals. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, you have to give me your word! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49080	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Maletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serb Slav Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49081	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we remember all the floods from 2014 and remember and citizens all that they survived from 2000 to 2012 and remember every year when there was some much less serious emergency situation, different floods, droughts, where we heard there was no money to clean the canals, there was no money for anti-urban missiles, there was no money for protection systems, for early reporting to defend against floods, etc. But the citizens know why the money wasn't then to defend our fields, our energy system, our lives, our houses and our citizens' apartments and our cities. It wasn't because we had the Heatherland case because we had an affair at Vojvodina Development Bank, we had a 400m-euro bridge on Ada. It wasn't because they put money in the pockets of the tycoon of Dragan Gilas and his friends for the reconstruction of King Alexander and Nemanja Street. It wasn't because of "The City Watch", it wasn't because of the underground containers and the six million we threw at it. Then, it was not because of Spanish trams, then because of Serbia's borrowing on green interest of 8-12%. Then, because of the 1.2 billion debt they left us. Then, because of the replica of Terrasia, because of the systematic destruction of our municipalities, where one true example of this is the Smederjevska Palanka and the Ken case and the others. When you add it all together, the citizens know it all and they remember it all and they know how to get it back in the election. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49082	I thank my colleague Filipovic. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49083	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister of Justice, honourable representatives of the MUP, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 with which I would like to place an accent on undeveloped areas, on the development of these undeveloped areas and on the defence of floods, fires and all unwanted matters in undeveloped areas. By the way, I was back, yesterday and yesterday, talking about a problem that was on the Old Mountain, Mount of Srljeljska, where there was a big fire, and now I can say that the fire, which is said professionally, was liquidated by members of the fire rescue unit, and that there are little pockets left to be liquidated. It is a big deal and for all of us it is very important that we live in that part of our Serbia. Otherwise, fire rescue police unit, d.v.d. Guys, people who work in the forest administration, we're grateful to everyone for doing their job as well as they can. We've also used helicopters to put out fires, and I think we've shown this that we have the opportunity and the strength to use all of our expansion capacities, which are being strengthened through new programs, through new laws, which we're now adopting. At the same time, I would like to invite you, distinguished justice ministers, to visit our municipality, to see the beauty of our region, and also to invite colleagues from the MUP, to pass on to our interior minister, Mr Stefanovic, that it is southeastern Serbia, that Nis is like the centre of southeast Serbia, which is now safe for life, where there are no more bad things, which were in the previous period, to work on building facilities, where our officers work, where they live, or for all of us, that it is very commendable and good that our police administration in Nis, Mr Virijević, is very active and together with him, with police administration in Nis, with police stations Svrlig, Bela Palanka and all of us want to succeed, to be even more peaceful and better now. Once again, I call on all my fellow MPs to support my amendment, because I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, really want support for southeast Serbia and Nisa as the centre of Southeast Serbia. Thanks again. (Imanja Sarovic: By Business, Marinkovic.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49084	My colleague Sarovic, I have to follow what my colleague Veroljub Arsic did and surely there are reasons that are based on the Rules of Procedure and in his perception of today's situation and the development of this debate... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... in parliament that simply, I respect my colleague Arsic... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. (Inemnja Sarovic: By Business, Marinkovic!) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49085	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, the municipality of Luciani in 2014, in 2016, hit major floods by causing major damage to the population, businesses and the state is effective, and the Serbian government has responded effectively to the problem. From 2014 to 2015, with 97.2 million dinars, intervention and rehabilitation works were done for the first phase of the protection of Lucan, and then 2016, 2017, the right bank of Bijelica was solved with a very high-quality dinar system, where 303.2 million dinars were invested. Then, the left coast of Djerac, with 75.2m dinars of investment, was resolved. In 2010, trade hit major floods and real disaster. Unfortunately, there were people who were killed, rivers took bridges, 500km of rural roads were destroyed, and the rink above the settlement threatened to create a real disaster. They were visited by the president, then Tadic, and on the coast of Pcinje, asked the concerned population – was the chicks cold during those floods? He asked if the chickens experienced stress during those floods and did they drink any sedatives to calm them down? Those people are upset, they don't know what hit them, they look at him, they laugh at the pain, because he wanted to be funny. They look at him, they know hens aren't on sedatives, and they're wondering what he's on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49086	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Nemnja Sarovic: You owe me a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure!) ) The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Snow White Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49087	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, respected fellow MPs, given that the elemental disasters first appear in the territories of the local self-government units, it turns out that the draft law puts the unit of local self-government first and defines their rights and obligations in situations where accidents occur. Given that the natural disasters continue due to natural disasters, floods, droughts and earthquakes and cannot be predicted, but they must be prepared to defend them, in order to ensure that the aid measures are timely and effective. I would like to give an example of Kosjerić municipality, which is failing in Zlatibor County, the area from which I come from, which in 2018 has repeatedly declared an emergency situation on parts of its territory, all due to ugliness and rainfall as a cause. As a consequence, the municipality suffered serious damage, especially in road infrastructure and agriculture. The municipal authorities estimated damages to about 30 million dinars. Given that it is a small municipality, which does not have a significant budget for the recovery of damages due to natural disasters, the Emergency Staff has engaged all available machinery in the territory of the municipality and has managed to ensure, with the help of the citizens, the functioning of the damaged road infrastructure. The management of Kosjeric municipality has shown readiness and organisation in the recovery of the damages suffered, and new amendments and additions to the laws will help them, as well as other local self-governments in better system organisation in the fight against the elemental disasters in future situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49088	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Do you want a word? (Inemnja Sarovic: By Business, Marinkovic!) ) Here you are, the word is Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... agriculture is very important and parties to the former regime... [[Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! You can't hear me, hey, Marinkovic?)]] Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! Marianne, pass the Chairman to the Rules of Procedure! )......................................................................................................... They left us this Rules of Procedure, did nothing to protect agriculture. (Inemnja Sarovic: Transfer to the Chairman of the Rules of Procedure, an hour and a half of the time in the Rules of Procedure, Marijane!) It's easy for us to build factories today... Sir, you want to seduce the order or me, what? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49090	I don't hear anything from you, colleague Risticevic. I thought your colleague respected you a lot more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49091	So, I say it's very important to build agriculture, that the former regime's party has singled out for agriculture from 120 million to 186 million, that we today allocate 309m euros and that I think more should be set aside, not just on incentives, should be invested for protection from the city and should invest in the construction of the floods so that the peasants don't take back what they're trying to make. What the peasants produce we have to process, we have to lift up the processing industry, and in this way we find jobs for those they fired, over 400,000 people, and so the pension and health funds are left with no money. So, anything that hasn't been done by the party of the former regime, we have to work. I have to say that Vucic, who builds up economic capacities, is kind of happy because what they would have built for me if they hadn't fired them all, if they hadn't built a state where there wasn't a single factory. If they hadn't fired so many people, we would have hired them. That's why they think we need to solve the problems they left faster, and I want that speed to be as real as it is and build Serbia, build the dikes, build the protection, it can't be absolute, but by our own understanding and by our will, we can build everything they're not. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49092	According to the Rules of Procedure? They say some kind of deal has been made between the parliamentary groups and now you're jumping out of that deal and I don't know what to do. (Imanja Sarovic: You must give me your word in the Rules of Procedure!) I've been on the phone for an hour and 32 minutes. All right, come on, according to the Rules of Procedure. Let's see, but according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49093	Mrs Gojkovic, you have just interrupted the unprecedented disgrace of the Serbian parliament that lasted 92 minutes. Full 92 minutes, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. The two chairmans changed, I don't know how many speakers received a word on other grounds and only for their known reasons, Veroljub Arsic and Vladimir Marinkovic did not give the word to me. Article 103 says the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, done at the session of the National Assembly, directly following the injury done. The MP cannot point to an injury that has not been pointed out. The President of the National Assembly or the Chairman shall give a word to the MP immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. In those hours and 32 minutes, the shame of the Serbian parliament has passed, whether 20, whether 30, or more speakers, and it is a disgrace to all of you, and to those who have encouraged the chairman and those who have thrown them out of the bench – do not give him, and various other ugly expressions. But it's your shame. If you feel that in the National Assembly I can thus be denied the rights of the Members of the People, then you, too, feel free, give me another warning, disfellowship me from the session. Everything is at your disposal. But you must know that these things will happen in the future. This is not about the right to have no Sarovic, an individual, but about the rights of all of you. When the "yellows" did that, then you whine in the previous session, and now you use their Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49094	Thank you. Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: I want an explanation. I can't explain, I wasn't in the O.R. Nemanja Sarovic: Well, you owe me an explanation. Well, I can't. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I explained to you what happened, you have a secretary, if you weren't there, you have a vice president. He helped me, but you weren't happy, you were looking and... (Inenja Sarovic: Then tell me if you agree, or yes or no, whether you support or do not support such behaviour? It's your personal position and you're required to plead. I would ask you not to yell at me, that I would ask you. Nemanja Sarovic: Make a statement. That's what I'd like to ask you. I wasn't here, and I don't know how that part of the session ran. Don't yell. (I Nemanja Sarovic: 92 minutes registered in the system. So you're yelling so much that you've darkened the microphone. I would only ask you to plead to me, if you will, do you think that the vice president who led the session and did not give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the opportunity to explain, hurt or not hurt, that I know whether to put you to the vote? You think he hurt the Rules of Procedure and we'll put him to the vote. Thank you. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I have reported to the Rules of Procedure. He hurt me if he didn't give me his word. That's what we'll determine by voting. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of young diplomats from the countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, who have not recognised the self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija, who are visiting the Republic of Serbia and I am pleased that they are following the further course of our debate. We are done with the amendment by Marijan Risticevic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49095	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Kuburovic and his associates, hit the Republic of Serbia in May 2014 with unremembered floods, which caused enormous material damage. The flood wave then hit the territory of Leskovci to a lesser extent. Thanks to the rapid and effective reaction of the city authorities and competent services to the implementation of preventive measures, a major disaster per capita and material goods has been avoided. On the basis of orders from the Republic Emergency Staff, on 15 May 2014, the City Emergency Staff activated all its available forces and resources, to implement measures to protect and rescue the endangered population, animals, material and cultural goods, to remove the consequences of the natural disaster caused by rainfall in the territory of its jurisdiction. During that period, the City Emergency Staff, headed by the mayor of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, sat daily, monitoring the situation, both in the territory of the town of Leskovac and in the Republic of Serbia. Citizens and business entities of the city of Leskovec, at the mayor's invitation, responded largely to the appeal for donation of humanitarian aid in flooded areas, so that a dozen trucks were sent to help in clothes, clothing, chemical means, food products and water. On the town council of Leskovec, the decision was made to allocate five million dinars from the city's budget for flooders in the area of the Republic of Serbia, as well as 10% from the personal incomes of city administration officials, and for the city's needs, funds were provided for the purchase of two large mud pumps and financial resources for the purpose of training a specialised civil protection unit for first aid. But the most important thing is that about 160 volunteers from the town of Leskovac responded to a call to go to an endangered area, primarily in the town of Sabac. And, of course, worth every commendation, is the socially responsible company Bane Komerc from the village of Kumarev near Leskovec, which produces PVC bags and donated those days 400,000 bags, which arrived at the destination, the town of Šabac, and thereby greatly prevented the water verse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49096	On Article 3 of the amendment, Ambassador Branimir Rancic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49097	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers, Mrs Kuburovic, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 3 sort of adds to the previous amendments submitted by my distinguished colleague Mr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. To remind you, according to the number of individuals exposed, emergency situations may be: an accent, an emergency situation in which up to a thousand people are exposed, a disaster or a major mass accident from a thousand to a million people and a disaster, which may result in a pandemic of an infectious disease. In this regard, Article 3(1) states that the principle of priority is to reduce the risk of disasters and manage emergency situations as a national and local priority. On the basis of the Emergency Act, which was adopted in 2009 and the amendments and additions 2011 and 2012, the city of Nis adopted all documents prescribed by the Emergency Act. For example, an operational flood defense plan. Isolated means of defending against floods in the territory of the town of Nis for second-class waterways, for functional jobs – million 249 dinars, for the regular maintenance of the Jelašnja river – three million and 300 and Velepoljska river – 790 000, totaling six and a half million dinars. Co-operation of the Niš Emergency Administration and Nisa City Police, according to the Nisa Emergency Staff Commander, Mayor Darko Bulatovic, is daily and at a satisfactory level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49098	Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49099	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, where a special accent is given to protect vulnerable groups. I must say that for the Serbian Progressive Party, for President Alexander Vukic, people are the greatest value of our society, i.e. citizens of Serbia, and that life protection is certainly the number one priority. It's just Article 3. The bill says priority number one, that people's lives are exactly in disaster rescue and disaster rescue, priority number one. I must say that the focus of the whole law is to protect particularly vulnerable and especially vulnerable groups, as regards the protection of both children and pregnant women and mothers and persons with disabilities and evasive and displaced persons. What I also have to point out, and the focus is exactly the protection of vulnerable groups, it is that all information and all information on the potential risks of disasters are given in adjusted format, but are given in both sign language and Bray's letter, as well as how it shows that it takes care of deaf and deaf persons, as well as that it takes care of blind and weak-sighted persons. Also, in order to protect the most sensitive and vulnerable, this law recognises both the obligation of schools and other educational institutions, preschool institutions, colleges and all those teaching facilities, that they are obliged to carry out a risk assessment. When it comes to evacuating the population, priority is given to exactly vulnerable categories and mothers, children, people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49100	The 3rd amendment was submitted by Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49101	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, this law and amendment, if the government accepts it, will contribute to defence against catastrophic situations, which will contribute to the overall security of the Republic of Serbia, which makes it an integral part of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The former regime's officials did not contribute to the security and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and this is evidenced by the following examples. Sasa Jankovic, called "Sale Prangi", said on August 3, 2017, quote – KiM should be admitted to Interpol, and thus recognises the independence of KIM, completed the quote. Secondly, Cedo Jovanovic, called "smrkanovic", said on 26 October 2012, quote – Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent country, finished quote. Vuk Jeremic, a former failed NATO powder candidate for the country's president, called "The Wolf of the Seed", said in December 2008, quote -- the entry of KIM into the UN by the best Serbia should hope for, a final quote. Nenad Canak, a failed NATO powder candidate for the president of the state called "Neso Gicoje" on July 14, 2017, said I quote -- I am ready to recognise KIM's independence, which is why this amendment, and the law, is very important to accept so as not to show up on a political scene such political freaks, which in their statements violate the integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49102	The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49103	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I would only say to begin with, if I exceed my amendment time, I would ask to allow the use of the time that belongs to the head of the Parliament club. In fact, by actually adopting this law and future work, the goal, apart from prevention, when it comes to removing from the consequences of floods, is to reach the level of ability, efficiency, equipment and training of Russian rescue services. It's the best rescue service in the world. She has her own special school, that school has existed for more than 111 years and the results of their work were more than evident in 2014. Namely, Obrenovac will not forget, and Serbia, General Edurd Nikolaevich Cizikova, who arrived with his rescue team in Serbia in less than 12 hours. One element of all this is their ability, training, equipment, but one of the key reasons why they came first to help our police, the military that took part in the active rescue and evacuation of the citizens of Obrenovac is the existence of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis which was the logistics of their arrival, provided all the permits in agreement, of course with the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the transfer of a group of rescuers, for their transport of equipment, both by road and by air. The citizens of Obrenovac have shown by their behavior that simply this trust they had in Russian rescuers is something that is truly unremembered. One of the details the media wrote about, which happened during the evacuation, was, when Russian rescuers came to one of their boats, there was a woman on the second floor with a small child, almost a baby, and when they asked her to hand over the child, she asked – Are you Americans? When they explained they were Russians, then she said it was okay, now I trust her, she turned the baby in, and then they transferred her to that boat and evacuated her. This is simply a sense of security that their ability and willingness, and also modesty can be felt but is something that should be the goal. As they quickly and efficiently arrived in Serbia so undetectedly and modestly went to another location when they did their part of the job, when what was most critical of all was in Obrenovac. The craftsman won't forget that. Obrenovac will always respect it, as well as Serbia, but Obrenovac will not forget the bastards who ruled until 2012, who completely destroyed the civil protection system, which had shut down, destroyed Serbia's Army, which was a barracks in Obrenovac, where one of the largest engineering units in the former Yugoslavia was obviously not by accident, because in Obrenovac, not only defends Obrenovac from the floods, but also defends Belgrade. One day when they wanted to sell out, destroy and do with the military effects of the Serbian Army, they performed a complete garrison on a military exercise and never returned it. Imagine that out of the 12 amphibiouss that were in Obrenovo's barracks, more than the one that was right and that was extremely important for the evacuation in the most critical places, all 12 survived. They did not survive, but ended up in old iron for small money and for the fat commissions that the former minister who reigned until 2012 put in his pocket to end up for the plot and building on Vračar's pastures. For this reason, there is also an initiative of Obrenovčana, who remembers 2014, understand the migrant crisis and the need to move to the barracks in Obrenovec at this moment, but since this crisis, according to what we see, is excruciating, that their number is being reduced, we rightly expect that the future training centre for the rescue units, their accommodation, and even when conditions are obtained, the return of at least partially serious engineering units to the barracks in Obrenovac is realised by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49104	The third amendment was submitted by Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49105	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, have inherited a difficult situation in the MUP. This led us to have the Emergency Sector put out fires with old-timers, fire trucks that were between 40 and 45 years old. The previous regime really didn't matter to take care of the needs of our fellow citizens, you can only look at their property cards, car park, and everything will be clear to you. They really didn't care for the needs of the citizens to put out the fire. The situation is much better in Serbian society now, and the MUP sees real progress. The MUP has acquired 33 fire-fighting vehicles, type MAZ of which 11 were delivered this year, while 25 fire-fighting vehicles are agreed which are expected to be provided and delivered by the end of the year. More than three thousand emergency personnel now have a regular and protective uniform. The interior ministry has continued to take a step further, it has opened up to all the online services that are directed towards citizens, who live in this country and that is good, so does the responsible government, so does the SNS that every day shows that it really cares about citizens in the first place. By obtaining this equipment, Serbian firefighters will indeed be able to provide assistance in the event of a threat to our citizens. They will be able to provide a quick and adequate response to an emergency and will thus result in a reduction in the damage caused by an emergency. The reform of the Serbian police, the modernisation of equipment, the training of our youngest citizens, will lead to the fact that we, as a citizen, feel safer and safer in our country. At the very end, I want to say one sentence – these are laws that go beyond high policy. We really need a general consensus. I would take this opportunity to call on the MPs sitting across from us to support these reform laws, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, to go forward as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49106	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49107	I thank the esteemed president. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, the Law on Risk Reduction and Emergency Management is another indicator of the government's commitment to combating elementary disasters primarily by policy, and preventative action. Unfortunately, in the past, very little has been invested in prevention and the consequences of this were seen in 2014. What is more, when we think of the example of earthquakes in the King and later, recovery from earthquakes, we remember that we had a major corruption affair when representatives of the former regime embezzled about a million euros and it shows you that, not only did they not invest in prevention, in the protection against the consequences of natural disasters, but when the elementary disasters happened, during the reconstruction and humanitarian actions, they took away the citizens what they belonged to them. So 50 houses weren't built then because of this corruption affair. In his opening statement, the minister said that expectations were that seven or eight times directly or indirectly return to each dinar during preventive action. The Republic of Serbia invested more than threem euros in the Municipality of Luciana during the construction of a protective disaster and then solved a major problem of citizens and the economy of Luciana, which was decades-old and which had immeasurable material damage in the past. It's one of the examples that I'm sure this investment will come back. I'm just going to give you one more example from the city of Chačka, because I have so much time. The town of Cačak resuscitated the coast of West Morava by protecting villages, over 1,000 hectares of fertile ornaises, and that investment amounted to about 35 million dinars. When we know that during 2014 and 2016 we have suffered damages of over 200 million dinars, seven or eight times more than is now invested. That's the best example.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49108	The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49109	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about security, I would like to highlight the activities of the Board of Traffic Security in the territory of the city of Bora. The Transport Safety Council has prepared a series of measures to increase the safety of all traffic users in the city's territory, starting with the preparation of traffic-technical measures to increase traffic safety, then preventatively promotional activities, as well as their realisation in the traffic system. A project of ongoing repairs and maintenance of video surveillance across the city's territory has been implemented, while a project to expand the video surveillance network is under way. For the purpose of raising the level of traffic security and the funds of the Council, two vehicles were purchased for the needs of the traffic police, the BOA in Bora, as well as two vehicles for the needs of the Traffic Inspectorate, the Department of the City Administration's inspection services. Every year there are competitions of elementary school students "What Do You Know About Traffic", for which the Council also provides rewards. It was also bought as a lifesaver for the needs of fire services in Bor, for the rescue of people from car accidents, and for preventive promotional activities, it was bought to help simulate dangerous factors affecting man's psychomotor abilities. All planning documents, i.e. the transport security strategy and action plans, have also been provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49110	Thank you. By amendment, Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49111	Thank you, Chairman. I just received an amendment from my colleague, Parezinovic, but I saw that you really didn't see it, because a colleague already wanted to talk about her amendment and I wanted to support my colleague Parezinovic's amendment, because with everything he said, I almost agree. We talked, colleague, about an affair in the King, about an earthquake and 50 houses. That's what I was saying, but you see, then the minister was Milan Markovic. So, an earthquake in the Kingdom in 2010, he is the Minister of Local Self-Government, directly responsible for the distribution of earthquake funds and then, set up in 2013, by the SNS as head of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I asked the minister yesterday how it was possible and what it was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49112	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49113	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister Kuburovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 to add Article 3. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. First of all, I'd like to point out that this article is 3. The draft law defines the subject matter of the law, i.e. the notion of action in conditions relating to the reduction of the risk of disasters. Lately, we have all witnessed climate change that in one unusual way shape weather conditions, not only in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but in the territory of the whole world. There's almost no place on the globe where one of the elemental disasters didn't happen. The threat of natural disasters is positioned at the very top of the country's priorities in preserving people's lives, above all. Storms and floods, earthquakes, represent the most extreme form of challenges mankind faces today. That is why the response to the crisis is in the hands of security structures and essential to further survival and work and development in a particular territory. In the struggle with nature, we are aware that we cannot come out as winners, but in some ways we can and must do our best and that the consequences of disaster are as little as possible. That is why intensive investment in the prevention that Minister Stefanovic spoke of in the principle debate is of crucial importance, as the money invested in preventive activities is equal to multiple investment, in the resolution of the consequences already incurred, disasters and negative occurrences in emergency situations. A special newspaper or one of the major newspapers in the proposed law is that it refers to the city's municipalities of Belgrade. In previous discussions, fellow MPs have noted, and I will agree with them that this is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49114	National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49115	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment aimed at further pointing to the importance of passing this law. The main objectives of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations are primarily the comprehensive normation of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters, then rapid and effective response, when disasters occur and the effective removal resulting from disasters, in order to normalise life and work conditions at the site affected by disaster as soon as possible. In fact, the bill builds on the existing system, given that this bill is largely based on existing solutions, with what has been shown to be insufficiently effective in the existing law further incorporated in this proposal. What will result is that as a society, we will be more resilient and ready for potential disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49116	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49117	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, I submit to the proposed legislative solution an amendment that further defines Article 3 by adding Article 3 and all in terms of more precise definition of the relationship between the proposed legal solution and the development of the Republic of Serbia. I would once again like to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry on the proposed legislative solution that should ensure that the disaster risk reduction and emergency management system as part of a single national security system in the Republic of Serbia is regulated in a unique way - by creating legal conditions for the establishment of a single and integrated system, while at the same time aligning the organisation and functioning system with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from elemental and other disasters. The proposed solutions aim to enable system entities to overcome obstacles to existing capacities and to develop measures to reduce the risk of disasters. The proposal for a unit law of local self-government has made greater commitments, and the city's municipalities of a new obligation in the area of protection against emergency situations. On the other hand, the successful application of this law will reduce the damage these same units of local self-government suffer from emergency situations. By abandoning the timely participation of citizens in one-sided protection and rescue affairs, the process of saving people and property is significantly slowed down, which can have serious consequences, which is why the draft law provides for a clear and unequivocal obligation for citizens to act on orders from the competent staff to evacuate people, cattle and material goods. The positive effects of the bill are permeated through all spheres of society. The resilience of society will be improved, and the community's willingness to face and respond to possible catastrophic consequences will be raised to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49118	National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49119	Thank you, President. The Honorable Minister with his associates, the adoption of this amendment, provides for the establishment of organisational and personal conditions for the implementation of emergency protection. Security of well-trained personnel, the establishment and training of existing fire and rescue units in all places for the performance of new tasks, the development of the ability to respond in the event of a disaster to the most efficient way by training fire and specialist units of the MUP, fire units in business entities and fire units of voluntary fire companies, as well as civil protection units. As with countless times so far, the Serbian government and the Ministry of Emergency have provided selfless help in removing the effects of floods, snow and snow applications to the city of Novi Pazar, showing that saving human lives, material and immaterial goods has no price, neither knows religious or national belongings nor in many cases risking their own lives. Priorities at the local level will be the acquisition of new equipment, training personnel to work on it, the reception of professionals needed for faster and more efficient operation in times of emergency. New Pazar, thanks to the measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia, will also be part of this broad strategy adopted by the new Emergency Risk Reduction and Emergency Management Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49120	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49121	Thank you, President. A respected minister with associates, co-workers and colleagues, during the May 2014 flood in Baja Basta, almost all roads, state and local routes were interrupted. They couldn't be used. A lot of houses were destroyed due to the rink, and a lot of it was damaged. The same applies to agricultural areas, economic facilities and ponds. A reasonable question arises whether anything could be warned? In order to prevent flood damage, a water management plan should be adopted. In this way, streams would be tamed and water preserved for a dry period that would be used for irrigation. Since our water streams are extremely lush, the only remedy in raising the accumulations is to properly locate those who accept and neutralize flood waves, from which water would be released in a minor period according to the needs of people and ecosystems, making a reserve for dry periods. Thus, we would minimise the effects of major floods and create real conditions for the development of agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49122	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49123	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law lays down the principle of priorities in the disaster risk reduction and emergency management system. The main objective and reason for the adoption of the law is the need for a system of reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, as part of a single national security system in the Republic of Serbia to be regulated in a unique way - by creating legal conditions for the establishment of a single and integrated system, while at the same time bringing the organisation and functioning system into line with the real needs of protecting and saving the population and material goods from natural and other disasters. Also, during the period of application of the Emergency Act, and based on experience in the current emergency situations, there was a need for the adoption of a new law with a desire to define more precisely certain provisions that would make it clearer and more efficient and precise. In this way, it would allow all entities of the protection and rescue system to know their rights and obligations exactly, and also what consequences arise if the provisions of the law are not respected. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49124	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49125	Thank you, President. A respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the emergency response system, which is the main subject of the regulation, was faced with huge challenges during the devastating May floods in 2014. Floods threatened the lives, health and property of more than 1.6 million people in 119 municipalities of central and western Serbia, while the total flood damage amounted to 1.7 billion euros, making up more than 4% of GDP. The main objectives pursued by the Emergency Risk Reduction and Management Act are the first in a comprehensive normation of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters, to respond effectively in the event of natural and other disasters, as well as to remove their consequences more effectively in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in affected areas as quickly as possible. The special emphasis is placed on the protection of vulnerable groups and gender equality, as well as establishing a partnership between the public and private sectors and the involvement of scientific organisations, associations and civil society organisations in the process of creating and implementing disaster risk mitigation policies. And my amendment to Article 3 of the said law is heading towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special view to reducing the risk of disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49126	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49127	President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of the emergency situation and sticking to the subject of amendments, I will talk about a major elemental disaster that hit the municipality of the Great Plan and this territory of the MZ Lozovik and parts of the territory of MZ Krnjevo and MZ Milosevic on 13 June this year. In fact, on that day, there was an elemental disaster in the city and a huge amount of rain. The city of such strength and intensity, as well as such consequences of agricultural crops, was not remembered by the oldest residents of these villages. Immediately within an hour, the Great Plan Municipality's Emergency Station sat down on the spot in Lozovic. The headquarters has declared an emergency situation in this territory, as has been done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Acting on the decisions of the Staff, the competent municipal commission immediately came to the scene of the same day, as well as the coming days to make a record of the protection. Nearly a thousand claims for damages have been reported. The categorisation of each individual case was carried out and the proposal was referred to the verification of the competent state commission at the Public Investment Management Office. The state commission has found that all claims meet the conditions for compensation and are classified in the right category, indicating that there has been enormous damage to the city's facts in this area, which will be compensated partially to the injured citizens. Citizens will receive the maximum amount provided for by the regulations, after which the municipal commission has reached individual solutions on compensation and damages as soon as possible. The local self-government has done everything on its part within the limits of its ability to mitigate these consequences. All citizens, who were interested, were provided free seed for corn, for re-sowing of destroyed areas under this culture. The public utility "Milos Mitrovic" worked with its available machinery for about two months and provided assistance to the most vulnerable at the rehabilitation of residential and agricultural facilities. The most endangered families were also provided with construction material through the Centre for Social Work in the Great Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49128	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49129	The overall development, which is the subject and this amendment today, absolutely does not mean the development of what was once an absolute standard in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately for our citizens, at a time when the yellow company of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, that false unionist Vesenovic, known bully, and their co-ordinators in the form of Dvora, and burned Serbia, developed exclusively their own businesses, or their own party, developed their own pocket. For example, through affairs, as we had in the Serbian Development Fund, the Vojvodina Development Fund. Serious development also involves investment in people, investment and in funds. And thanks to a serious relationship today, we have, for example, an x knife at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, which was once absolutely unimaginable. We have the best possible equipment for rescue teams, but we also have room for example. We raise salaries by 9%, as can be seen when preparing the budget for next year, and not only to raise salaries for 8.5% of the employees in the Tax Administration, Customs Administration, 12% for medical workers, 10% for doctors, 7% for the public sector. So when you do it seriously and responsibly, then there's room for this sort of thing. It's absolutely impossible for us to get what happened to us in 2014 in Capac, to be threatened by a flood somewhere, and some genius like that unfortunate Zelenovic doesn't have two proper brooms. Otherwise, the man ended his dishonesty yesterday in front of the Council of Europe, and these media favorites still continue to report on his performances as they do today. While he was talking about Serbia the worst, here Dragan Djilas again took delight in his moves, and the people who were there before the Council of Europe are reporting from the scene, as I have seen Mr. Perisic's comment, that in five years, watch out, no one has ever sent such diletaries to represent someone, to speak of their country in such an ugly, disgusting way as Zelenovic did. They're enjoying it today, they're praising it today. Gilasu is full of mouths of various accusations and again, of course, the story in the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49130	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49131	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49132	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49133	Last sentence, literally. Until they reach that the whole of Serbia is their private front and that everything looks like their propaganda message, they will not stop, but the message for them is free of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49134	Ambassador, I'm gonna have to take my time. You talked for two minutes and 31 seconds. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49135	Article 3 of the law speaks of priorities when it comes to solving the consequences of disasters on the ban on discrimination, when it comes to saving and protecting human lives. Now, Serbia has always been valid for a country that has cared deeply for all its citizens, but not only its citizens, but also for all the people on its territory. All of us, and the whole world, were witnesses of this, first of all, in that wave of migrant crisis that rocked Serbia especially in 2015. A large part of the job then, if not and the largest one, was done by the MUP, and I will only tell you that the Serbian police have processed the largest number of smugglers from all the countries on the migrant route. To make no mistake, it is not because we have the most smugglers, but because the Serbian police were probably doing the job most responsible than anyone who was affected by the problem. What's good about all this is that these jobs are not being campaigned by the Serbian police and they continue today. Just five days ago in northern Serbia, the MUP deprived eight people who also participated in human trafficking. It is a job that brings security not only to people who are the subject of smuggling and who are victims of human trafficking, but to create one safer environment for all of us living in northern Serbia. In my opinion, what is most important is the very reputation of the Serbian police, and that is probably the most important segment in the work that the MUP is doing. Let me put it this way, you put these principles in Article 3, and I supported some of the data as an emphasis on everything that is relevant to this article, but also this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49136	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a major contribution to the fight against natural disasters and emergency situations is also the decision of Interior Minister Nebojko Stefanovic to increase the reception of participants at the Centre on the basis of police training, and this tells us that from 2014 until today, this training has ended 1,407 participants who have been admitted to the MUP, and currently there are 712 more students in training. In June 2018, the Ministry of the Interior launched competitions for the reception of 900 new participants in this centre and they will be a major boost for our police by the end of 2019. Also in the last four years, the MUP has received 630 students who have completed the Criminal Police and Police Academy and this is a very important incentive for young, highly educated people to stay in the Republic of Serbia and to make their expertise available to the state of Serbia and the MUP. Also important is the fact that in 2018, 96 new lifeguard firefighters were received by the MUP, and another 57 participants are being trained to be deployed into a fire rescue unit in Belgrade. In June of this year, a competition for the admission of 100 new participants to fill jobs in fire-saving units in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was launched. All these measures are extremely important for the fight against natural disasters and for the operation of the MUP, especially its emergency sector in all those situations and events that took place in the Republic of Serbia in 2014 to the greatest extent, and in certain parts of Serbia and in the years thereafter.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49138	The People's Parliament of Desanka Repac submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49139	Thank you. Dear President, I welcome the representatives of the Government, Madam Minister and dear colleagues. I have submitted to Article 3 an amendment that reduces the risk of a migration crisis. This law defines areas that will be represented by a new national disaster risk management programme and emergency management. For any risk-based risk assessment, units of local self-government, autonomous province, the competent state-level ministry should be bound to bring preventive measures to reduce risk, in this case, of the migrant crisis. Serbia believes the solidarity of all EU countries, the region, is the key to success in the work so that the needs of migrants can be met. The organised policy of migrants must be done in a legal way. Serbia has so far had an extremely good and humane attitude towards migrants. To reduce the risk of the humanitarian disaster of the migrant crisis, of these legal provisions, international co-operation is most applicable. International co-operation, both in the area of prevention and humanitarian aid and provision, i.e. receiving international assistance. No country can solve the migrant crisis on its own, even the UN has included migration to develop the 21st century. Most European countries have no policy towards migrants. Serbia did a good job when no one was ready for it. The irony of fate, the countries that fought the most against borders and walls, which had pledged to remove them forever, are now in a hurry to rebuild them. The European Union finds it difficult to accept migrants, not only because of cultural and religious differences, but because there are no...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49140	Thank you. Finish your sentence, anyway. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49142	Thank you. I'm sorry. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49143	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected Mrs Kuburovic, the bill provides for an increase in the security of our citizens, their lives and their property is certainly to be fully accepted, and this is exactly what this proposal insists. The adoption of this law on disaster risk mitigation and emergency management will provide a general framework for the establishment of an efficient integrated disaster risk reduction system to reduce existing risks, prevent future risk creation and an effective response to disasters. Identification, assessment and monitoring of risks and risk-response planning for responsible environmental, land, water and other natural resources is our national task, and disaster prevention is of primary importance. Serbia is abundant in water, but despite this fact, in years behind us, we have suffered the effects of drought, even though it can be seen and even predicted. The previous regime's ministers announced major projects, when it comes to irrigation, and one of them talked about a system for as many as two million hectares. And, of course, they didn't do anything, but that's why they didn't forget to get fabulously rich. Only the arrival of Alexander Vukic at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia began with the construction of large hydrosystems financed from a $100m loan at the interest rate of everything, or just 1%. Directly from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina and local self-government for the procurement of the irrigation system, funds are being allocated 10 times higher today compared to 2012. The importance of these investments is immeasurable in the effective fight against droughts, and they are particularly important that our farmers and agricultural holdings will financially strengthen and create all assumptions for the further development of agriculture and thus contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49144	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49145	Thank you. Dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law adds item 3 which refers to a reduction in the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. In the context of this, I would say a few words about autism and an MMR vaccine, i.e. a vaccine against morbils, rubellas and mumps. The Institute of Public Health, Batut, points out that there are no official data on the number of autistic children in Serbia, and that the institution has not received a single application of registered autism following the use of the MMR vaccine through surveillance of unwanted reactions after vaccination. A number of epidemiological studies have been conducted in the world in the last two decades, and they have denied the hypothesis that the MMR vaccine is associated with the risk of autism. The MMR vaccine was introduced into the immunisation calendar in Serbia in 1994 by two doses. The first is given between 12 and 15 months, and the second is in the seventh year of life. Doses are given to give life immunity against little goddesses, rubellas and mumps. 1.5 million doses were applied in Serbia from 2008 to 2018. During this period 176 undesirable reactions to the MMR were reported in the form of mild rashes, fever, swelling of the glands from the ear, temporary palpitations of the platelets, and very rarely caused by deafness, coma, and permanent brain damage. If you don't vaccinate a child, let's say there's even a fatal outcome in little goddesses. Constipations can cause severe brain damage, abortion and testicular inflammation, and rubella poses a high risk to pregnant women. It should be said that each country has its own vaccine calendar by law of prescribed vaccines. Two factors define one country as regards the choice of mandatory vaccines. One is also important in the prevention of infectious diseases, and the other is the price of the same. So there's no mandatory Pregner vaccine against pneumocococcal strains, bacteria that attacks the brain and lungs, but also causes sepsis.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49146	Thank you, Dr. Granny. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49147	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with associates, MPs, Serbian citizens, the authorities will take all necessary measures to implement the provisions of the Law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management, which is on the agenda today. The government will bring a strategy to reduce the risk of disasters and to manage emergency situations and an action plan for its implementation, as a basic strategic document that sets out policy and directs the activities of state authorities and other entities in disaster risk management, sets out guidelines for the engagement of human and material resources, further developing a normative institutional framework to reduce risk and to respond effectively to disaster challenges. On the other hand, the interior minister will also make the rules necessary for the full application of the laws of which is certainly the most significant rule on methodology, method of drawing up and content of the risk assessment of disasters and the protection and rescue plan, which will be applied by all entities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia when drawing up the documents in question, and will be compatible in application. In order to establish a risk register, the interior minister will prescribe content, how to establish and maintain a risk register, while the obligations of the system's entities in the process of creating a risk register, how to create a risk register and data input will be made closer to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49148	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49149	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law that is before us represents a continuation of the reforms that are being carried out in our country. I have submitted this amendment in order to highlight the importance of reducing the consequences of natural disasters, because it does affect citizens who are engaged in agriculture, but above all in our country's economy. Years ago, we've been listening to today war only on the economy and there's no need to have an army, there's no need to modernise it. We remember the period between 2000 and 2012, when the army, the maltenes, were disbanded, when tanks were destroyed, when the hoods were destroyed, when they were drowned, sold, etc. We wonder what would have happened during the 2014 flood, if they had happened during that period, in order to respond to the almost disbanded army. They said we had no enemies, that we were surrounded only by friends, and when we looked, they came to power in 2000, just a year after everything that happened to us in 1999. It's a little weird that they already made friends a year later. They said the army should disband for peace's sake. What does it mean to disband the army for peace and for economics? Does that mean that if we have a strong army, we don't have peace? We agree and advocate that there should be peace and a strong economy, but we believe that peace and a strong economy is precisely in a powerful army, in a modernised army, in soldiers who have an honest life, in soldiers who have good wages, in soldiers who are trained in the equipment they deserve. The powerful army represents a powerful economy, and I stand for this path that we've set out to do. I want to thank Minister Vulin once again for everything he does for our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49150	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49151	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Article 3 itself discusses priorities in protecting against disasters. As a top priority in protecting against the consequences of disasters and protecting the saving of human lives. I agree with this priority, because human life has no price in saving, of course it has a priority. The amendment I have made to this member of the law concerns disaster prevention. It is necessary, first of all, to do everything to cause disaster and not to occur, only in these cases human life is not at risk. That's why I tried to point out the importance of preventive action. Some disasters, unfortunately, cannot be influenced and cannot be prevented, but only by good organisation and preparation can we prevent the consequences from being enormously enormous in a material way, with respect for the priorities of saving. But there are disasters that a man is responsible for. This kind of disaster can be prevented, or at least their number is reduced to the least possible. Here, first of all, I mean fires. By our irresponsible behavior, we can cause not only great material damage, but also endanger human life. One of those examples we had a chance to see a few weeks ago. The burning of harvest remains in the field along the Belgrade-Nish highway, and the creation of a smoke screen was caused by a heavy chain collision, where one person lost his life, and a major material damage was done in addition. We must therefore act preventively and influence people's awareness that, no matter how harmless they act at first, we do not endanger other lives and cause great economic losses. In the voting day, I will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49152	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49153	I thank the chairman. Honored Minister with Associates, Honored People's MPs, Article 3. The bill stresses that reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations is a national and local priority and that everyone has the right to protection without discrimination. This is important, because disasters and emergency situations can happen everywhere and everyone. I'll remind you of some of the biggest natural disasters that have hit Serbia. The largest flood since May 2014, was in 1965 when the Danube poured out, then in April of the month in central Banat, 2006, when 225 thousand hectares were flooded. Serbia suffered even seven major earthquakes, in Lazarevec in 1992, Magnitude 5.9, in Mionica in 1998, Magnitude 5.7, and the most devastating was the one in the King on 3 November 2010, Magnitude 5.4. Fires and droughts have also often hit Serbia. The highest temperatures were ever recorded in July 2007, when, for example, 44.9 degrees Celsius, 44.7 degrees Celsius, and 44.6 degrees Celsius, were recorded in Smederjevska Palanca. A large drought in 2012, halved vegetable production in Serbia. The biggest storm followed by storm and city was recorded in 1937, May in Belgrade, but more recently, storms and the city are becoming more frequent and leaving huge damage to agriculture. The lowest temperature in Serbia of minus 39 degrees Celsius was recorded in Karajukic's wells in January 2006. In 2012, ice shackled many cities of Europe, including parts of Serbia, declared a state of emergency in 14 municipalities. The occurrence of a slide in Serbia is not uncommon, as as many as 38% of Serbia's territory is marked an unstable area, with as many as 35,000 to 36,000 slides recorded. That's why I suggest we pass this law, because it's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49154	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49155	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about disasters and emergency situations, I would like to point out that in the territory of the city of Nis, there is the City Fire Department of Nis and that, in spite of the existence of an important role in the work of the Voluntary Fire Department, there is an operational voluntary fire department in its composition, equipped and trained to put out fires. The situation of a voluntary fire company in the territory of the town of Nis, has been rapidly improving in the last period. The city's fire union Nis has launched an initiative to establish a voluntary fire company in all city municipalities, as well as in certain local self-governments on the territory of the Nisavian Management District. The City Fire Department Nis has a role to play in organising fire-fighting competitions, establishing voluntary fire-fighting companies, training its members, organising training courses for workers working on fire protection, establishing co-operation with other voluntary fire-fighting companies and developing awareness of the importance of the PDO and others. Also, there are industrial fire units in Nis. According to the requirements, the forces and resources of the industrial fire extinguishing unit and outside the company which primarily protects, of course with prior request and prior consent, may be used. Since the proposed laws encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, we will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49156	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Slavisa Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49157	I thank the chairman. On the proposal for a law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, I submit an amendment to Article 3 in the sense of adding Article 3 which reads - the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the resolution resulting from the migrant crisis. The increase in the number of migrants was particularly visible in 2015, when over 115 thousand foreign citizens, mostly from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq, expressed asylum intentions during the first nine months. Although Serbia is a country of transit, in which migrants are held extremely briefly, during 2015, the average of detention is only a few days, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration is making every effort to ensure a human and adequate response to the needs of migrants. Along with its modest contribution to the recovery of the consequences of the migrant crisis, the public institution of the National University of Vranja, which in co-operation with the NGO sector has launched a number of trainings for migrants, who are located at a reception centre in Vranj. An example of the work, in early 2018, was organised a course for carpenters on four migrants from the Vranj Acceptant Centre, and was attended by an art workshop at the National University. Also, in co-operation with the International Organisation for Migration IOM, as of 1 November 2018, training started for five migrants from the Acceptable Centre in Vranje for Interest – a carer, as well as training for computer work. Under the agreement, new groups for different professions will be formed each month, and training is planned to continue during 2019. In addition to the National University, a public institution from Vranja, the School of Animated Film, organised six workshops involving over 100 children of migrants who at the time made about a dozen documentary films. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49158	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49159	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will continue where I have been in the previous amendment, with several times mentioned earthquakes in the King today. I must point out that in 2010, the Emergency Sector did its job in quality, correct, on time, just the way it should have been done. But what bothered me at the time, and today, is the distribution of certain funds, including the evaluation, that is, the categorisation of damages in individual buildings and houses. You have a case that day-to-day, so eight years after that catastrophic earthquake, you have private houses, and you have buildings that are categorized with much lower categorization and those funds that are intended for them, were not enough to perform reconstruction and adaptation of certain objects. Unlike those who then exercised power and who were thinking only about themselves and their pockets, and I can see that today, because they are very bothered by the "Telecom Serbia" that works in the interests of the state and in the interests of the people, protecting probably some of their private firms, fearing that large system, the SNS has shown that it is also interested then in the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia and that it thinks about every citizen and that it thinks about every city in our republic. In 2010, we formed a headquarters that monitored the realization of all our efforts in the recovery of earthquakes, but as groups of citizens. So that's what the SNS party was doing. For the purpose of making five new houses, in the end it was seven new houses, we dragged tons and tons of material, money, but all of this was reported primarily to the city's earthquake headquarters. So, the trail exists and today we have an archive and documentation of everything we've done, unlike some who've burned their archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49160	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49161	Respected Marinkovic, Minister Kuburovic, Mr Maric and his co-workers at the MUP, the proposed solutions aim to enable subjective systems, overcome obstacles to existing capacities and develop measures to reduce the risk of disasters. So that we wouldn't be surprised by some of those 2014 disasters, it's come to an exhaustive end to all segments of society. As for security risks, the Deputy Prime Minister's initiative, Nebojja Stefanovic, and with the support of the Ministry of Education during 2017 and 2018, was introduced into all primary schools as a subject of child safety. This item is in school 2017/18. The year was intended for education of fourth and sixth-grade students, on security risks and threats posed, on the means of prevention and the skills of achieving security protection, with the aim of developing their safety. In School 2017/18. The year programme was implemented in 1,140 elementary schools where 49,013 lectures were held, of which 54,815 fourth grade students and 56,150 sixth grade students attended each topic on average. Thematic content of the programme envisions the safety of children in traffic, police at the service of citizens, violence as a negative social phenomenon, prevention and protection of children from intoxicating drugs, the safety of Internet use, prevention and protection of children from human trafficking, protection against technical and technological dangers. At the “Kosta Abrašević” elementary school in Resnik, small firefighters exercise daily, headed by their teacher Nevena Lazic. I attended one of these exercises last year, which was carried out with the help of a fire unit from the territory of Rakovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49162	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49163	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, my amendment refers to a section involving the resolution of floods. What really needs to be repeated here is that in co-operation with the EU since 2014 we have had a resolution of the consequences of unremembered 120-year floods, they say no such floods have occurred as did Serbia. But what is important is to say that Serbia signed an agreement with the EU in 2015 on mechanisms for co-operation with civil protection. In fact, it provided construction of 160 new houses and 870 reconstructions of houses, which is 112 houses more than planned. In addition, 16,000 families received seeds and fertilizer. What is important is to say that 63 municipalities received total values of over 60 tons of insecticides in order to ensure a normal life of people affected by this accident. The most important thing is to say that by 2012, Serbia really had an irresponsible policy on emergency situations, and that is all those who teach us today about democracy, who would hang, kill and rape. But what shows the budget, the 2011 proposal, for emergency situations, envisioned 800 million dinars for 2012, 950 million dinars. Today and last year are the figures showing five billion and 494 million and six billion and 144 million, which shows that we are really working to prevent and preserve people, material resources and state institutions when it comes to these disasters. So in the voting day, these amendments really need to be seriously considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49164	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Bug Tarbuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49165	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Kuborovic and his associates, respected Serbian citizens, the Emergency Risk Reduction and Emergency Management Act is being upgraded to an existing system defined by the Emergency Law. Some solutions are simplified and innovative to make it easier to apply. Measures are being developed to reduce the risk of disasters. I put a precautionary response in the first place, because investing in means of protection to prevent contributes to reducing the consequences of crisis situations. We all, unfortunately, know what happened to us in 2014. In addition to the 100-year floods, we realized we don't have amphibious vehicles, we realized we don't have rubber boats, we realized even that there's not enough number or shovels or sacks, and, thank God, that's all changing. The government has made a full contribution to all this and it is obvious that in every segment of society things are moving. I am grateful to the Ministry of the Interior and the Emergency Sector for this law. I think he's going to improve things in the sense that it's better to prevent it than treat it. In any case, my esteemed colleagues in the voting day, please support this law, of course, if they have the strength and the time, and my amendment. I would add that there was a holiday in Belgrade last night. David beat Goliath last night. Complicated Red Star players and fans have managed to show what we know for a long time, God forbid when the Serbs agree, then whoever's on paper can do nothing to us. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49166	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49167	The Honorable Chairman, in the past little over a year, the Ministry of Interior through capital projects and other procurement provided more than 1,000 new patrol vehicles, 65 field vehicles, 72 marches, 56 vans, more vehicles for the needs of the criminal police and has been modernised and fully reconstructed more than 40 combat armored vehicles. The interior ministry also acquired new ‘Lazar’ and ‘Milos’ armored vehicles. It is a picture sent by the Serbian Ministry to citizens, unlike those of the Alliance for Change, who already cheated on citizens, robbed Serbia, destroyed public finances, left thousands of people without a job and existence, only to fill their pockets and party registers. Knowing that they don't pay taxes on false promises and aware that they'll never come to power, that someone would ask them when they'll meet their 30-point program. Gathered in this unnatural alliance, which serves them only to have individual leaders try to draw attention from the fact that they have to hide millions of euros they acquired during their term of office, devastationing Serbia, and others expecting their white world pals arrested for corruption to talk about their role in money laundering, to try to play themselves as Serbia's saviors. Robbery, corruption, the threat of rape, hanging, beating women, that's all Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Veselinović and similar to them can offer, contrary to reforms, job openings, the rise of economy and the economy from ashes and reputation in the world and daily efforts that President Vukic makes to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. As someone who monitors the work of the security sector, I want to thank the mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Milos Vučević, who is making a lot of efforts to help the police and the fire brigade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49168	Thank you, colleague Becic. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49169	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, floods that took place in the Republic of Serbia in 2014 have had conditions that have not been recorded in the last 120 years. Just experience gained in the previous period has initiated the creation of new normative solutions, capacity improvements and upgrades of the existing system. The bill first puts preventive action, i.e. investment in infrastructure and protection of people and property, and then international co-operation in the area of humanitarian aid, in response to the consequences of natural disasters. We also have a lack of activity and a lack of timely response, as was the case in Šapec during the 2014 flood. No law can describe the inhumanity and cynicism of the city government in Sapac, headed by Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, when the town of Sabac and the citizens of Sapac left at the mercy of the flood wave approaching, doing nothing and thus directly endangering human lives. After that, Dusan Petrovic and that prosecutor Nebojsa Zelenovic begin spreading false news through Sabac, that the danger did not exist. They failed their plan to flood Sava Sabac and accuse then-Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, whose rapid reaction sent everything necessary to defend the Sabac. Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, who learned to live on pathological hatred and the misfortune of others, could not have been expected otherwise. I would like to tell them that Serbia is a legal state in which the law is respected and that no moaning in Strasbourg and in Europe will release them from responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49170	Thank you, my fellow Prince. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49171	The proposal is to add a third position to Article 3 – The assignment of diplomatic status for all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, will achieve a reduction in the risk of disasters, with a special reference to the possible fight against floods. There is no reasonable reason why this amendment is not accepted. If someone showed up in these floods that hit us in 2014, then it was just this Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre based in Nis. Why does this amendment bother us? We can't understand. This amendment is not only due to the fact that we, the Serbian radicals, are rustic, and we are, traditionally and consistently, but simply because we think this is necessary in order to benefit from this law and in some don't give God situations. Now, the only reason I don't think the government has accepted this amendment is the discussions of these MPs, Rasim Ljajic, yesterday and today. Yesterday, when I mentioned this Center, he jumped over the Business and said, "What a center, what Russians, we are for military neutrality right now, with an emphasis on the moment." Look at the stenogram, if you don't believe it. What does that mean? What kind of Russians? We don't want to co-operate with the Russians? We're for military neutrality right now, and what's next? Maybe NATO? So, you really need to listen to every word. Today, the chairman, Vladimir Marinkovic, says he is answering me again, but they did not let me answer him further, he says – these radicals and their Ramzan Kadirov. What's your problem? Ramzan Kadirov is a bigger friend of Serbs and Serbia than many who live in Serbia. He's the hero of the Russian Federation, he's a member of the United Russia party Supreme Council. I don't understand what's bothering you? Especially since we didn't mention him. But here it is, we support everything that is done in the United Russia and Russia in general and, of course, possible co-operation with the Russian Federation which, I think, if you don't adopt this amendment and these amendments, takes some other forms. We don't understand why these MPs of Ljajic's party, Rasim Ljajic, are jumping and responding to every one of our reports? We're very specific. Therefore, elections for national councils of national minorities took place. Rasim Ljajic was in a pre-election coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin. Sulejman Ugljanin said Serbia is a fascist Serb formation. On "N1" television, or on "First" TV, it's similar or the same thing, he explained the other day why he said it. He says -- because there are parallel police authorities in Serbia, parallel judicial authorities and that he wants all of this to lustrate, to live in some Serbia as he imagines it, because these parallel organs do not judge Serbs for genocide, etc. So, scary statements. Statements that no one can make under what Ana Brnabic said, he is for some medical observations, etc. It's a lot more serious than some medical observation. So our question, Mrs Brnabic, is very simple and very simple – did you talk in the government, do you have a position, did you talk to President Vukic, did he give you a position, whether Rasim Ljajic will remain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if he continues to co-operate and co-operate with Sulejman Ugljanin in the Muslim or Bosniak National Council? It's a very simple question. It doesn't hurt, just try to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49172	Thank you. You talked about everything, just not the amendment. Of course our SDPS MPs stick together and they'll stick to it. I didn't notice anything about you jumping when it was the real No Scarovic, but, well, it doesn't matter. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49173	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill lays down certain principles of action in the system of reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations and sets out each principle in particular. The amendment we have made concerns the principle of priority. You say that the adoption of a law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations is proposed to improve the overall framework for the establishment of an effective integrated risk reduction system. In order to achieve the general objective, it is necessary to take a wide range of activities and measures that will reach more individual goals, so I would ask you accordingly – what will you do, or what activities will be taken to prevent the ecological disaster that threatens Novi Pazar, when the marijuana fields are burned, Rasim Ljajic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49174	National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49175	Thank you. From this discussion, we can conclude the following – that the law is very flexible, that it did not provide for any sanctions for the abuse of power in the case of elementary disasters, and that I am saying this for one simple reason, for experience, because I was born, or because I live in the Kingdom and because we had a major earthquake on 3 November 2010. What did you do for the punishments of the people who abused the donations at the time and who then misused the state's millions-euro financial resources? What you did with Mr. Milan Markovic, who was then Minister of Local Self-Government and who later, by his party councils, was declared an honorary citizen of the Kings, and was the first suspect in the tender to be realized on the topic of these 500 editing houses, where it is known that instead of 300 euros per square, they were paid 500 euros per square. 500 euros per square is new construction, and it is from hard construction. So we have an obvious thing here that's been committed one great abuse. The citizens of Kraljev have one bitter taste of injustice, and you have put him as head of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal instead of sanctioning him, and in 2013. Are you sure that this law, which you have now proposed here, wouldn't happen now if there was an earthquake or an emergency situation, that all of this wouldn't have happened in the same way and that there wouldn't have been an abuse. Everything would happen the same way, there'd be abuse, and in the end, what's most important, they lit the entire paperwork on the third floor of the City Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49176	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, so this Article 3 was done at a low, amateur level, if you've read it, I suppose it is, you could have concluded it yourself. Here we talk about the principle of priority, and in fact in one and a half attitude we talk about goals, and only half the attitude is about priority. So, one law is preceded by goals, and then later, priorities are made, which is some time championship that needs to be known and done. This part of the work has not been carried out professionally in either the sector or the department for legal affairs in the MUP, as well as the Secretariat for Law, or the Republic Secretariat, the legislation, which determines, promotes, monitors the implementation of the regulations, publishing has done nothing, and we have therefore felt a great need, otherwise this is also the SRS' position to add at least one more priority here, which is to recognise diplomatic status to members of the Serbian-Russian friendship. We need to do this, here, and just now, colleague George Komlenski said, when that woman, mother, but I don't know what she was, she asked, are you Americans? If it is, we don't trust you, if you're Russians, we have great trust. You Serbian citizens seem to be putting yourself in the last place, it doesn't matter to you, and at certain times, when you need it, you say – and how many citizens have declared themselves and given their trust to this regime? Perhaps they are, if you continue to develop this relationship towards them, then the question is, how long will they tolerate you. This was one controversy, Mrs. Kuburovic, which I wanted to share with you, but I have a specific question for you. So, we insist, the question is not difficult, only if you want to answer it, and already after the fifth, sixth day, you have to have an answer to that question, if you weren't ready to offer it here yourself, to bring to the SRS and the Serbian public, you had to ask the Prime Minister, which is simply, simply, quite precisely – what will happen if Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin are building a coalition after the October 4th elections, whether he will continue to be the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia and be minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He's expecting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49178	Thank you. Belief of Radet, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49179	And this amendment, like all of our amendments to Article 3, is the same and we can't really believe why you don't want to accept this amendment, where we want members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis to get diplomatic status. Through our history, more recently, we have had frequent floods and acquittal floods and unfortunately for years the problems that have arisen in these elemental disasters have not been solved. There are other consequences from some previous times, the previous parliamentary majority and the assembly governments and the Serbian government, but you know, we remind you, because these days we are talking about co-operation and the coalition of Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin, that these two shoulders sat side by side in some DOS governments and that they did nothing as members of the government to resuscitate or to prevent new circumstances that led to emergency situations, or to prevent those that were then in power. Indeed, this is one of the reasons when we talk about this law, that the representatives of the SNS will tell us whether you will continue to allow Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin's shoulder next to the national council, sitting down, spending state money, through the national council, to be spent by anyone who knows what, but that we still have problems like we had in the period when they were shoulder-by-side in the same government and therefore I repeat the question and we will all repeat it – will Rasim Ljajic remain a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia if he concludes a coalition agreement with Sulejman Ugljan in the Bosniak National Council after these elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49180	National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. All the problems and hardships that have gripped us through our history have also brought about something positive, which is the Serbian people's ability to quickly cope and resist all these problems and disasters. If any other people had experienced what we experienced during NATO aggression on our country, the question is to resist all of it. We survived it somehow, though. Life goes on, but it seems we haven't learned the right lessons. It is incomprehensible that we are suicidal in the EU, and it is clear that there is no longer a perspective for long-term members. They are aware of this in almost all EU countries and I am not surprised that, as a rule, the parties with national orientations have won. So, we're not passing laws just because it's the EU that's asking you to do it. We are looking at our own interests because most of these laws are harmful to us, and it is inadmissible in our terms. Our Emergency Sector can act much better without this European law, which it has shown on many occasions on the ground with Mr. Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49182	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The word has a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49183	Mr. Marinkovic, it's good to have your eyesight and ears fixed. Now you're in a position to give me your word. It is good that we are discussing emergency situations, because today there was also an emergency in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You and Veroljub Arsic suspended the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and for 92 minutes you did not allow me to report to the Rules of Procedure and thus, it is freely said, carried out a mini coup. However, there are worse things happening in Serbia. All of us two days ago, or as long as it was past, were witnesses that Sulejman Ugljanin was a state of Serbia, called the Republic of Serbia a fascist plant, and said he would beat a fascist non-majority named Serbia. Now the question is, behold, there is Mr. Mijatovic, is it possible that for the sake of personal interest they are ready for anything, and even for a coalition with such a man? Are you ready, Mr. Miatovic, for personal interest? Is that a personal interest? Here, says Mr. Mijatovic, it's not a personal interest. The only thing we can conclude is that it is a programming coalition, therefore, that Mr. Mijatovic also thinks Serbia is a fascist creation. It is really good that there is a minister of justice, to hear whether in the country of Serbia anyone, and especially whoever is the holder of the government, who is the bearer of public authority, can call Serbia a fascist creation. Now, let's see what you're all prepared for, to see what kind of coalition partners you can accept, whether it was enough for you coalition partners with Hashim Thaci, with Ramush Haradinaj, or now you're ready to tear down Serbia to be coalition partners and with Sulejman Ugljanin, who is openly speaking, I repeat, and I can see that this clearly bothers you, that Serbia is a fascist nemancer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49184	Time, fellow Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49185	Here, I'm done. Can you, Miss Kuburovic, accept that you are sitting in the government with a man who is in the coalition who has a programming coalition with those who claim Serbia is a fascist man? Please, Mrs. Kuburovic, answer. I don't know how many MPs have spoken, you haven't answered anyone. That's why you're here. If you don't want to answer, then you can be free in the government, both at the Justice Department or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49186	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the time of the Serbian Radical Party is up. Right on line, MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49187	Really, for days I've been saying it's pointless to explain things. It's hard to explain to someone who thinks 100 times a lie is true. A hundred times a lie is a lie. That's how it always will be, that's how it always stays. Also, I really don't need to explain anything to anyone, especially those who bring this lie directly to my eyes. Therefore, there is no need on behalf of the Social Democratic Party for anything to deny. The citizens of Serbia know very well what the Social Democratic Party is doing, its leader Rasim Ljajic and everything you do and what you do on behalf of others, on behalf of those who paid you, you will not really get away with it. That's what I say all the time. You associate me a little bit more, you know, you keep saying the same thing to Uncle Jovo Dragon. He taught them, taught them from Wednesday to Friday, but they didn't get away from the beginning. You haven't moved since the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49188	Thank you. Due to this sourced atmosphere, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break until 15.00 hours. At 3 p.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been talking for several days at the National Assembly session on security and emergency situations. I'd have to point to a few things. First of all, during the catastrophic floods in Obrenovac in 2014, we had really great help and proved to be correct that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia we have formed a Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, and the Republic of Serbia i.e. The government in the Republic of Serbia did not find it appropriate to grant diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, although there are seven of them, exclusively humanitarian work, and we have the situation, too, that NATO soldiers passing through Serbia, not only have diplomatic status, but they also have all possible reliefs in their transit. Therefore, there should be little consideration to show gratitude in this way to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. I will also remind you that the SRS has collected more than 30,000 signatures for the establishment of another Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre on the territory of Vojvodina, in Novi Sad, but that the government is in the province, i.e. the advanced majority in the province voted against it. We think that to warn anything similar that can happen, which can take the lives of our citizens, that we should think ahead, not later organize people and buses and go the way it was – Shabac must not fall, etc. So, if people were warned before that, that they were working on time, so we wouldn't get back in the situation if we had such a disaster as it was in 2014 in Obrenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49191	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. National MP Natas Spasoija Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49192	I must address you, Mr. Maric, with all due respect to Mrs. Nele Kuburovic, because there is no minister, because I want to raise a question that is very important. So Serbia had a fire protection strategy from 2012 to 2017. Since the period has passed, it would be right to have a report as parliament on this and to make a new strategy. I'm saying this for a reason why, God forbid, but it's something that can happen in some parts, and Serbian citizens should also know that Russian-Serbian special forces at the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis are trained to put out fires. Why aren't they engaged in Greece? Because there was great pressure on the Greek government by these enemies of Serbia from the NATO Pact and it just didn't happen. We had a situation, Mr. Maric, that Rasim Ljajic, vice-president of the Serbian government, said on Saturday night that if he and Sulejman Ugljanin don't win, the list of Ugljanin's "Self-Determination" and Ljajic's "Vakat is" Gorica, he said. So, in order for this situation not to happen, please tell me now, there is Minister Nela Kuburovic... Mrs. Kuburović, in 2006 on November 8th at Mitrovdan, here tomorrow is Mitrovdan 12 years ago, we adopted the Constitution. Immediately after that adoption, Ugljanin entered the government of the Republic of Serbia. He swore to honour the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He was shoulder to shoulder in the government with Rasim Ljajic. The two of them now, let go of Ljajic's stories – Carbonin tells this or that. These are very dangerous things and, such statements, it's not something metaphorically said. These are serious threats to be sanctioned and to get Rasim Ljajic kicked out of the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49193	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49194	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. Article 3 refers to priorities, and we have proposed the amendment to add a third position that would read - by granting diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis will achieve a reduction in the risk of disasters with a special focus on the fight to protect human lives from potential forest fires. This amendment is a logical trail of amendments that we have submitted to previous members of this bill, which refers to the assignment of diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. Otherwise, it is our view that another centre should be formed in the Republic of Serbia, along with this centre, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In this regard, our colleagues, i.e. Parliament group Dr Vojislav Seselj SRS submitted a request to the AP Vojvodina Assembly in February this year to reach a conclusion on the launch of an initiative to form a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in the area of the AP Vojvodina. With this request, 31,157 signatures of support from Serbian citizens living in the AP Vojvodina area were submitted. However, in May of this year, the Vojvodina Assembly did not accept this initiative, and the Regional government did not give any opinion, although it was obliged to do so. The Serbian Radical Party is of the opinion that a serious emergency intervention centre in the event of natural disasters, fires and floods is needed in Vojvodina in the case of a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, which is undoubtedly the best humanitarian centre in this part of Europe. That is why the SRS parliamentary group proposed concrete solutions to the Niš centre with its amendment, but we see that the proponent was not willing to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49195	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49196	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment requesting the granting of diplomatic status to staff of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. Your colleague replied yesterday that it would most likely happen, but that such an agreement would be reached at the highest state level, between the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. We in the SRS really hope that this announcement will come true, but we cannot help but notice that we are concerned about the fact that we are receiving dissonant tones from the ruling coalition. On the one hand, the idea of granting diplomatic status is supported, while, on the other hand, in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, you did not accept our initiative to establish the same such centre on the territory of Vojvodina for which we have collected more than 30,000 signatures. Why is that? We believe that the problem in the very structure of the ruling majority is, given that in your structures, there are people who are pro-Russian-oriented, who are aware of the benefits Serbia has from co-operation with the Russian Federation, as well as those who, unfortunately, are not only Euro-Atlantic-oriented, but are working openly against their country, above all, as American spies. It's not the only problem, but in the government we have people with open separatist aspirations. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear that Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic worked several decades ago on the secession of Sandzak, while now plans to join the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who just a few days ago called Serbia a fascist plant. Our question is – will you stay in the government with Rasim Ljajic if he joins the coalition with Mr. Ugljanin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49197	Thank you. Rules of Procedure, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49198	Mr Marinkovic, indeed with the respect of Mrs Kuburovic, who is present as justice minister, we are talking here about a law that is not her portfolio. I have the impression that there are no colleagues from the ruling structures, that you're just waiting for the ten hours that will leak, Article 158, I apologize, for the debate on the amendments. And what does that look like? Now the citizens of Serbia who began to starve after this break that you set, so you said come on and let's honor the Assembly, I guess our colleague rested because he stood 92 minutes by the Rules of Procedure. So now you want to represent how colorful and beautiful everything here is in one day that is truly political turbulence. If what Radeta's colleague says as an authorised representative and all of my SRS MPs, it is not for you and for you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is enough signal to do something about it. Of course, you Marinkovic won't do anything while you're in this game of Rasim. I hear you want to take it, so now you keep some distance as nice as you are, etc. But they have to give us answers, but please turn on, there are all of you in front of them, especially you phones, look at the apps of the leading media. The basic question in Serbia today is whether Rasim Ljajic will still be president of your party until you take it from him, leave it in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as vice-president and minister if he and his "Vakat is" list for the Bosniak National Council makes a coalition with the list "Sulejman Ugljanin". One more question, now again, here you are, Madam Minister, please as in the state of Serbia it is possible... (Borisav Kovacevic: Aman, enough more. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49199	Thank you. I believe that I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure and simply co-worker Jovanovic, no one can force a minister or minister in this case who is authorized to participate in the debate, frankly to tell you I would not be completely solidarity with her, neither would I participate, the same text, the same sentence, would really be very boring and would take our time. There are colleagues of yours who are having a great debate, so that's where they'll probably get involved. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ( ) Belief of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49200	I'm shocked by what I just heard about the same text, the same explanation, now the MPs of the SRS are speaking, and you're talking about the SNS amendments. You've got something wrong. They have the same amendments, the same arguments, and we have each of our own amendments with special reasons, but all with the same goal, which is that the humanitarian centre of Serbian-Russian friendship is granted diplomatic status, at least as many as NATO soldiers are operating in Serbia. And with another goal to force the minister, to force the authorities to declare whether Rasim Ljajic will remain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in the government, if he continues the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who had in the pre-election work to elect the national councils of the national minorities? So very simple, very simple and extremely significant. And it is worrying to hear from some colleagues in power – aman, much more. No, it's not enough. Until we get an answer, we won't stop asking this question. If you are willing to continue working with Ugljanin via Ljajic, say so, the people must know. That's what citizens need to know. If you are not, then say, "We will ask Rasim Ljajic to resign if you are in great pain to resolve it." But in any case, Serbian citizens want to know and need to know, I repeat the question -- will Rasim Ljajic stay in the government of Ana Brnabic, if he concludes a coalition for national councils of national minorities with Sulejman Ugljanin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49201	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you won't make anyone do anything. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Natasha Jovanovic. On what grounds? (Natasa Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49202	I'm reporting for article 27 in article 32, Mr. Marinkovic. As the People's MP of the Republic of Serbia. I have the right to receive from you who are currently in the position of the chairman of the answers to questions concerning our work and my duties and duties as MPs. I'm asking you a question I know the answer to. So, Serbian citizens also know if Monday is a working day in Serbia? It's not, is it? It's not because November 11th is a state holiday in the Republic of Serbia, the Day of Peace in World War I. And now, you tell me as Vladimir Marinkovic, who is a national MP, you are taking to the registries of "Natalya Raymond" which is a symbol of the peace and death of Serbian heroes, our ancestors in the First World War. So we don't know how many victims we've lost, and the Allies have given us numerous confessions to stop a German occupier, not only here but in the entire Balkans. Is it normal for you to in Serbia in which in a few days, Mitrovdan is celebrated tomorrow, and the Day of Truce in the First World War in a few days, there is a politician who is not sanctioned, with whom you will, therefore, Vladimir Marinkovic, are going to be making a coalition, which is Sulejman Ugljanin, who says that we are, indeed because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to read that statement from the day before yesterday, - I am pleased that we will now be more political options, that we share the responsibility that we are going to win together that non-human, fascist formation of Serbia's state of Serbia. How can you keep quiet about all this and be such hypocrites and celebrate a holiday that we should really be proud of all Serbian heroes and the Duke of Bojovic and the Duke Step Stapanović and all those who freed us and who probably gave you all an indication of how you should behave in 2018. And you, you don't care, Sulja is good and you stay in government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49203	Thank you. Otherwise, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jovanovic, you did not see well, I do not wear "natalia Raymond", I wear a cross with four letters S. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of fire protection, I must point out voluntary fire companies as good support for this service. I am not here today either Mr. Maric, nor Minister Stefanovic, who last week said that in the process of obtaining 40 new fire trucks, which is of paramount importance when we know that a large number of those who intervene today are across the Republic of Serbia, aged and a few decades. The Serbian Radical Party also has a comment on how to fill the fire department. It was mostly from the ranks of the military and the police, with outdated equipment, neutral enough and now it needs to be raised to a much higher level with better material technical capacity and qualified human and organisational potential. If there had been a better organization or a tragic event in Novi Pazar than a few weeks ago, we wouldn't have had that situation. Speaking of Novi Pazar, I would like to point out a much more dangerous fire, which has set and set fire to extremist Suleiman Ugljanin, and which is miraculous, is in league with the current minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Alliance, whether working, business or political, means that you give yourself or accept another and you will not tell me that you do not know by joining an alliance with whom you are making an alliance, so it is not Sulejman Ugljanin's extremist from the week of the elections, so I would recommend, here I will not exclude Mr Ljajic, but I would recommend that this Turkishism in the name of his list "Vakat is" justify and logically and symbolically and leave the government itself, as he said – the fascist formations of his ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49205	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49206	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the situation in Novi Pazar, in the Raška area is very worrying. It's a situation that leads to emergency situations. This is what the Shiparis did in 1968, then in 1981 where I was one of the commanders in the joint squad when we broke the iridant and when we established public order and peace, but the enemies from Slovenia and Croatia did not give us, headed by Dolanca, Herljević and Branko Nikolic. This situation must be taken very, very seriously in the Rasca region, because Suleyman Ugljanin was looking for a republic. In 1968, the Cypriots sought and sought a republic continuously until the present days and sought an independent state, which Serbia will never recognise. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of Article 43. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the rights and duties of the Public Prosecutor. The public prosecutor is obliged as soon as he reaches out to him to commit a criminal offence, which is being prosecuted on official duty, to take the investigation procedure immediately and to take the appropriate prosecution. For a criminal offence which is at stake, which is regulated in the Criminal Code, in Article 307. - endangering a country's territorial continent, Ugljanin endangers the territorial integrity of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49207	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49208	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a serious matter and the state authorities should take appropriate measures to avoid those events that we had in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49209	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49210	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as in the proposed amendments to the SRS, this amendment points to some shortcomings in this draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. In the proposed situations, it is not clearly defined that members of the Staff are obliged to attend the headquarters sessions at the invitation. In practice so far, it is not often possible to provide quorum at headquarters sessions, in order to legally make sometimes very important and urgent decisions. And not only in concrete emergency situations, but when important and preventive measures need to be taken. For example, taking preventive and preparatory measures for the upcoming winter season and setting priorities for cleaning local and untegorised roads. In practice, so far it has been noted by members of the Staff that there are no compensations for participation in the work of the Staff. The employment of headquarters in emergency situations, where unfortunately the motive is lost, where their engagement can be day and night in the resulting emergency situations, floods, fires, earthquakes, etc. Then, this bill should define that orders, conclusions, recommendations are strictly carried out by local self-government authorities, organisation units of the republican authorities at local level, economic operators, other legal entities, associations of citizens and each individual. Penalties should be laid down for non-implementation of orders, conclusions and recommendations. In the end, only to point out once again that the Serbian government has recently granted diplomatic immunity to the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. And, in the end, why does the government keep quiet about the extreme statements of Sulejman Ugljanin that the Raška area will be a republic, and that no one is answering until now? These are wartime Hague statements and it is very dangerous that in the territory of the Raška region, either Sandzak, or what someone else would call it, Old Herzegovina, there are no relentless events, which is not good for the good co-existence of Serbs, Bosniaks and Muslims, who, in one envious, can say, come from the middle from which they live. If they don't cut themselves in the bud today, I'm afraid it'll be too late tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49211	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, which was proposed to add the name and member of the 3a, together was submitted by the MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Comić, Dr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Natasa Vučković, Radoslav Milojic. Maja Vidinovic, Veroljub Stevanovic, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric has submitted to the title above Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49212	We have suggested that the title above Article 4 be deleted. That's why, of course, there's enough reason. Madam Minister, I would only like to exchange with you, or to ask you a question – do you have a phone? If you do, I won't take it, if you don't, I won't buy it for you. But it would be good if you had a telephone machine and you could hear from the Prime Minister, see this question asked by the MPs of the SRS, and the public in Serbia is interested in it, in what direction is it going and when, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, when and in what way do they think they're going to solve this issue? You ask very often from the congregation majority questions – whom you join together with and equalize those that occurred a few years or several months ago, with those who have really done great damage to Serbia. Proved. Confirmed. Probably those who join the Alliance for Serbia are all the same. But how do you successfully defend that? You must also ask the question – does the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to make a coalition with someone who is not... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49213	I can't let you talk any further. I've carefully read your amendment text, no connection, from the first second, not a single second about the amendment, you don't speak. I apologize, respect the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49214	You should respect the Rules of Procedure, this time I'm talking about Article 27. It is truly amazing that you interrupt the MP while explaining the amendment he has submitted. We've been here for days, for months we've had written the texts of colleagues from the ruling majority, who here read these written texts that have nothing to do with the amendment, and it's tolerated, and we don't mind and we wouldn't even mention it, not to mention that you didn't challenge us now. So you want us to shut up? Don't let us talk to the Rules of Procedure, let us not talk according to the amendment? Don't play games. Just because you're in an uninvited situation, that's your problem, you have to put up with it. We didn't make you party to Rasim Ljajic, you chose. And, influencing Rasim Ljajic, tell him to resolve this situation, to resolve it or to resign or to say - I will not do it with Sulja Ugljanin. You cannot transfer your problems to an SRS parliamentary group, and that you are the only one who does not allow us to talk about the amendment the way we want to talk. We want to convince Minister Kuburovic, we want to convince the assembly majority, and how are we going to do that? We, here, are trying in the way that we estimate that the best is, if that bothers you, I'm really sorry. Or are you going to treat everyone like that, now that the next amendments are in place, will you, after each amendment, let us intervene in the Rules of Procedure? Don't act rude and abuse the Rules of Procedure. You are here to respect the Rules of Procedure and to look at all of us here with the same eyes, as much as you hate to see us Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49215	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know for yourself and you heard that my colleague Peric really didn't speak for one second about his amendment, as everyone could see, could see citizens, far from defending and wanting in any way to ban anyone from speaking in the National Assembly, including your party's MPs. You said I'm in an uninvited position. I am absolutely in no invisible position, doing my job as best I can in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So I'm gonna stick to this Rules of Procedure and I'm gonna respect it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. A fellow Rističević, by amendment or what? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49216	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not entering this conflict, I just want to say that the ruling majority of their speeches are preparing in accordance with the amendments. So, I chose to be a farmer and we want to promote our areas of work. So, we do not have amendments that we only read and do not deviate from what is said in the amendments, but most of us talk about what we have chosen as a topic and this right is the same thing as the MPs of the SRS. That same right, the submission of amendments and defenses have these here, not to come to defend their amendments, not even when they can't stand them, they don't vote on those amendments. I must say that the SRS is an exception as to the submission of amendments, etc., to their amendments to the dams. I say again, not entering the conflict that has arisen, I want to say that, in accordance with our capabilities, we are trying to defend our amendments, to impose ourselves, to promote the government, the results of the government, and I think that this is our right, as is the right of all those who are not here and who have the same salaries, the same income that the same citizens have behind them, the same number of citizens who do not come and do not legally use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49217	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49218	Today we are talking about a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 and suggested that this article be deleted, because we consider it general and because it is, in fact, all that is contained in this article is something that is understood. But in the context of the very title of the law and the reduction of the risk of disasters, we want to talk about exactly what is happening currently in the state of Serbia, and what is happening is that Sulejman Ugljanin calls the state of Serbia a fascist creation. It happens that Rasim Ljajic has a coalition with him for the National Council of National Minorities. Also today, Rasim Ljajic is trying to wash himself, says he has coalitions at the local and SNS, had both in Novi Pazar and in Prijepolje and with the SRS, so why not have him here. It's grandmothers and frogs. The coalition at the bar, yeah, we had, we'll have, and again, wherever we're in a position to have a coalition with honest people on the territory of the municipality where we can make a coalition, we'll do it. But this isn't a local coalition. The National Council of the Bosniak National Minority is not a council for Novi Pazar, it is no local council, it is a national council at the level of the Republic of Serbia and it cannot be compared in any way. Neither Rasim Ljajic nor the ruling majority can hide behind it. We just insist that, in order to reduce the risk of a possible disaster that can cause what Sulejman Ugljanin is saying, we ask that the government plead, Aleksandar Vukic and the ruling majority, will Rasim Ljajic retain in the government if he concludes a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49219	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49220	Thank you. This Article 4 discusses the principle of integrated action and cross-sectoral co-operation when it comes to, Mrs Kuburovic, an emergency situation. Now Mr. Maric is gone, and he has no right to answer for the Rules of Procedure. Explain to me, please, how is it possible in cases where Suleiman Ugljanin, who does not recognise the state of Serbia, who does not recognise the Serbian prime minister, who says we are a fascist country, that the Emergency Sector might act if he raises some new uprising or people to the rebellion? Of course, none of the states are stronger, but you're not demonstrating it today, nor did you yesterday, and I don't believe that tomorrow and the day after. So what, you count, they'll forget, they've been talking about these radicals for a few days. Believe me, we won't stop until the police minister tells us if he met with police director Mr. Rebic, what his operational knowledge about the operation of the drug cartel and the role of Rasim Ljajic in the area of Pazar, until you tell us if you will leave Rasim Ljajic in the coalition government as vice president and minister even though he makes a coalition with this patient Ugljanin. I really don't know how you expect the session to take place in a different manner and tone and that you're still talking to us – you're not talking about the topic of the agenda. Look at this, Mr. Marinkovic, bill of law and what it says. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. It's not an emergency yet, you're a young man, but not so young, you know, some are like a little bit of water on the palm of your hand, not funny, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they've held Rugova and as far as it's got us. I'm looking at you. You're laughing. Everything's funny to you. A man who was a police general and later also a minister, Petar Jojic, means a man with great experience... You say, “time, ” you better keep quiet, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49221	Time, really, you'll get a chance again. You used it, I let you go for 12 seconds. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations. This is a very interesting law, interesting in terms of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia treats this matter. Of course, we all know that with the development of society, the development of science, techniques, etc. Risks and possible disasters are increasing and some things that, for example, society has not had before, are now happening. However, we have a Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, and I come from Nis and it is my duty to say it, and I don't understand why my other colleagues from other political parties aren't talking about it, we have a Russian humanitarian centre in Nis and it's still practically standing somewhere in the seal, this government doesn't want to give him diplomatic status, and this Russian humanitarian centre has proved itself and proved itself many times, in many ways and not only in the state of Serbia but also in many other countries in the environment and beyond. Really, it's incomprehensible that something like this could happen. That is why I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to seriously consider this problem. On the other hand, this and similar laws are passed primarily because of the European Union, and we in the SRS have warned you many times, at every session, through every address we warn you that you are not passing laws just because the European Union has proposed it, but simply to assess whether the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens will benefit from it, and only then do you release the laws into the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49223	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister of Justice, I was just talking about the possible consequences of the Republic of Serbia because it is being led into emergency situations unless the state takes appropriate measures. It is not clear that there is no answer to what SRS MPs are asking, whether Rasim Ljajic will remain in the government as vice-president and as minister if he is in coalition with Mr Ugljanin. When we talk about emergency situations, I would also point out a situation that relates to damage caused by the elemental accident and the city. So most of Serbia's territory suffers huge damage due to an unorganised anti-urban protection defence method, primarily the 10-municipality Zlatibor District, the Kolubari District, the Shumadian County and most of Serbia have suffered huge material damage over the guilt of those who have not taken the appropriate measures to protect agriculture and to protect the raspberries and other orchards involved in these affairs. So local communities did not take appropriate measures. I ask the question now to the competent minister – how many in Serbia, in municipalities do we have anti-urban missiles? How many shooters are there at which distance is the shooter where he lives, to the station where the missiles are fired? What is the damage done over the last 10 years, which exceeds over 300m euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49225	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49226	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the successful implementation of this law, the most important thing is prevention and good organization. Better is the correct and organized defense against the verse of the most perfect law, which is why some things in the law, when their full resuscitation is scheduled for only three years. Article 117 states that the risk register will be established within three years, and until then things are very slow on this plan. Only 19 solutions from the ministry have been made to assess the threat of units of local self-government, which is only one-sixth of the municipalities. I ask a very simple question -- how will this fire be put to rest, say, in the Raška area, when it was almost heard in Novi Pazar, who are extremists, Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin, attacking the state of Serbia, calling it a fascist plant? At these gatherings there were very extreme songs – it is my last wish to slaughter the Duke of Seselj and give Vukic to play. Can Serbia keep quiet about such statements by extremists in Novi Pazar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49227	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49228	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, inter-sectoral co-operation in various areas of the state administration is very important if we have the complexity of the area of disaster risk reduction and emergency management. However, the member who defines this co-operation is not precise enough, and we have asked this amendment to delete item 2. We have repeatedly, in the context of our discussions, stressed the importance of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre and suggested that diplomatic status be granted to members of this centre in Nis, as this will result in a reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management and intensive and effective co-operation with this centre providing a major contribution to reducing the risk of disasters, the efficiency of providing and receiving humanitarian assistance. When it comes to co-operation, should we, the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, tell you if you have any new knowledge or information concerning the coalition of Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin? Is that coalition broken and if not, how long do you think you're holding drug lord Rasim Ljajic in the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49229	I give you a note from my colleague. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49230	This is already getting amazing. Article 27, Section One, you've hurt again. You were not in parliament, we were punished in every way by Gordana Komic, Natasa Micic, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who made warnings, the first, the second, they took the word, they threw us out of the hall, but it can't stop us. What do we care about your warning, but this is a matter of your morality and your conduct according to this Rules of Procedure. Let's see if you can tell anyone else in the next period without being SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49231	What member did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49232	Article 27(1) Well, listen to me, man. Do I have to repeat it twice?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49233	Thank you. You're very kind. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49234	Now I regret not making you look at the stenogram, not me repeating what I said. I'm not here to be nice to you, and you're here to be the chairman of all the MPs and the same way. And we'll put an end to your insolence, be assured. And to all of you who are trying to stop the SRS in such a rude way and stop our MPs in their debate. It is not our Serbian radicals' fault that your Rasim Ljajic is in a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin. No, we're just asking the Wolf to make a statement about whether he'll still be held like that in the government. Now, really, if that's the reason for the warning, let's tell me right now two, in pairs, is no problem at all. I repeat, we're not afraid of the warning. You can't shut us up and we won't stop this until we get the government to plead. Maybe it'll back it up, we don't mind, but we want to know what the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49235	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know for a fact that this termology, which my colleague, Ruzica Nikolic, has spoken and given qualifications, is about anyone, I would, and I am totally behind it, have given a warning, so, as I am now doing and fully convinced that I am doing the right thing, as I have been very correct in the debate all these days, so I will continue, and I think I have made this decision in the right way. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? - Yes, I do. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49236	Mr. Marinkovic, I would like to direct you, and I don't know if you've ever been to Mrs. Radmila Stojanovic's library in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As an MP, you have the right to leave, go ahead and look at the stenographic notes of modern Serbian paramentarism, so, since the establishment of Serbian statehood, since 1835 from the first assembly that was established in my native Kragujevac, has anyone ever introduced a list of forbidden words in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and here is Mr Martinovic, as a man who well knows the history of Serbian statehood and Serbian parliamentism? Does he have a list, Mr. Martinovic, of forbidden words? There is, in Knesset, I know you're close to the Jewish lobby there, you visit the embassy all the time, that's your thing, you travel there. It is there, but until it is voted in the Republic of Serbia, you cannot punish Mr Marinkovic for the words spoken. Now, if I had time, but again I would point you to the congregation library, to teach you a little bit, so that you might see that the Messengers of the people spoke, the bastard, the thief, like this. Who could bear any responsibility for it. Well, who are you to make censorship in the head of Rose Nikolic? El, for this reason, she should be watching you, since Mrs Nikolic is a defectologist by profession, to observe you from the position of the defecologist. Really, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49237	Thank you, but I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: You hurt a member in 108, and I expect a voice injury. ) Please don't mention it in a negative context, it's been checking out these days for a few minorities, or even a Jewish community, especially to take care of these things in parliament, please colleagues. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49238	Article 27, and don't really turn anything around here as far as we're concerned, it's not about the national minority or any other people, and don't turn it on any of your sides. Mr. Marinkovic, we'll take out the stenographic notes to see how many times you've presided when these benches say that Kena is a criminal, that Zoran Zivkovic is a thief, that Balsha is a thief and a criminal. How many times have you chaired when these benches said that Andrej Vukic is leader of the drug clan, that Aleksandar Vukic is the main criminal in Serbia, how many times have you heard this from both sides and you have not responded? You're just in pain, Rasim Ljajic. You have to have the same criteria, and you can't tell if you like someone less or more. If you can say without a judicial verdict that Andrej Vukic is a criminal, and you allow it, or without a judicial verdict can be said that Kena is a criminal, and you allow it, then you can also say that Rasim Ljajic is a criminal, without a judicial verdict. But again our question remains – will Vukic keep him in the government if he concludes a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin? That hurts, and we're just looking for an answer to that question. And we'll look for him as long as we don't get the answer, whatever it is. The choice is to define whether it will support the Sulja of Ugljanin through Rasim Ljajic or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49239	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49240	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Minister Kuburovic and his fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, here we are already entering another week when we are discussing a very important law -- a bill on disaster reduction and emergency management. This is a really good opportunity to remind ourselves of all the good results and shifts made in the Ministry of the Interior. The interior ministry has indeed made an exceptional commitment to provide police officers with equipment that meets high standards of security, and when it comes to quality, personal and general protection and security, all in order to successfully realise the tasks set. Through the realisation of a capital project entitled "Modification of Information Systems" the Ministry of Interior has indeed improved the communication and services that go towards citizens. So, finally, the MUP put online services in its focus, all those services that citizens of the house, from their chair, from mobile phone or computer can schedule when it comes to the extraction of personal documents and other services that this truly significant ministry provides. Also, reforms by Serbian police were launched in 2014, and I want to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia when Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic headed the ministry. Modernisation of equipment was then purchased and made to purchase all necessary equipment, and it is 1,034 patrol vehicles, 20 motorcycles, 65 field vehicles, 72 marches, 56 vans, nine field vehicles, five buses, a total of 442 passenger vehicles and 33 fire-saving vehicles of type ‘MAZ’ for emergency response. We really need this. It is important to continue reforming and modernising the Serbian police, and key benefits from these missing laws, and when it comes to laws in the field of the Ministry of Justice, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49241	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49242	Article 162(1) indent 4 has been injured. What we heard earlier has nothing to do with the explanation that should contain the amendment, if you know what I said now, or what member I'm talking about. Feel free to take a look. We generally have no objection and we say it from the beginning, we have nothing against, on the contrary, the MP can say whatever he wants and when he talks about the proposal and when he talks about the amendment. That's the SRS' position. It must be applicable to every MP. You can't let someone talk whatever they want, and you tell someone who's a representative of the national minority that they insulted the national minority and you give them a warning. Are you aware of what you did just before you gave the warning? Ruzica Nikolic is a representative of the national minority and you gave her a warning because she was insulting national minorities. Imagine how schizophrenic that is. So what we've heard earlier has nothing to do with the amendment, like none of this text that's supposed to be an amendment, it's not an amendment, and the board shouldn't let it go. We would never have discussed this this way if you hadn't challenged us. I repeat, we don't mind, let the MPs write amendments whatever they want, let them say whatever they want, but we can't be neglected in the second plan and MPs of the second order. We are SRS MPs, Serbia's largest opposition parliamentary party today, and on behalf of Serbian citizens, we are just looking for an answer to the question whether Rasim Ljajic will stay in the Serbian government if he goes to coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49243	Thank you. Now you're trying to honor me that I've been incorrect in any way. First, let me tell you that I absolutely don't care... Yes, it is. )......................................................................................................... Whether Ruzica Nikolic is a national minority or not. I respect Ruzica Nikolic, and it is here especially for us that the chairman has nothing to do with it. They're all equal MPs, so you can't honor me. Don't be a lawyer to Ruzica Nikolic, she knows how to say it herself, she knows why she got the warning. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? I do, of course. We have to move on. In line with the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, I am holding a session and in favour of reducing tension at the session, I will give the word to Tomislav LJubenović. You've made me tense. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49244	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 4. The draft law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations submitted by the SNS parliamentary group is proposed to amend that Article 4 in paragraph 2 relating to the way inter-sectoral co-operation is integrated. By adopting this amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49245	I ask the SRS MPs to provide fellow Ljubenovic with silence, let's hear it. Respect your colleague. Come on, don't knock, motherfucker. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49246	By adopting this amendment in a better and more precise way, the principle would be defined, while there is still time to conduct this debate, and it is well mentioned that by way of effect of this law, the Emergency Law will cease to apply, as well as certain provisions of the Fire Protection Act. However, we will not reach the members of this bill that defines it because of the bad Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly and because of the vote to hold a debate on a large number of agenda points, which is due to a new situation where the majority MPs submit amendments just to waste their time of debate. For all this we will not be able to discuss either members of this bill concerning emergency headquarters, fire and rescue units, civil protection, supervision of the application of this law, violations and criminal provisions and other essential provisions. These are the reasons why we of the opposition are forced to conduct the discussion in this way and we believe that the government should consider the submitted amendments of the SRS parliamentary group and accept them. But it has become a practice in the National Assembly that most of the amendments submitted by the opposition, the proponent simply refuses, although their adoption would improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49247	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49248	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MUP has, above all, shown engagement in the fight against crime that is at an envious level and delivers results. There is, above all, the fight against organised forms of crime. The results have been improved in detecting drug crimes by more than 20% compared to the first half of 2017. As for organised forms of economic crime, several suspects were arrested for falsifying documents, money laundering, tax evasion and criminal charges were filed. What I would point out as a major step and particularly important is the fact that since 1 March, the work of the newly formed Anti-Corruption Department has begun and has also begun with the work of regional anti-corruption centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje and Nis. Otherwise, by 9.6% the number of crimes in the second quarter of 2018 compared to that period in 2017. It is also a high percentage of the lighting of crimes with an unknown perpetrator at 48.9%. The overall crime rate is even down 7.8%. There's a smaller number of crimes against property by about 14%. The discovery of criminal acts of illicit production, holding, carrying and transport of weapons is increased by 30%. A lower rate of juvenile crime was registered by 19.4% compared to the same period of the previous year, i.e. the first half of 2017. So, there's little time that I have now to deliver all the results of the MUP. In any case, I am sure that these proposals that are before us in the debate in particular are of quality, and I will also support my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49249	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49250	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment I submitted to the proposed law and it stresses the need to modernise the Emergency Sector. I think it is very important, but in this sense I would like to highlight some of the efforts in this direction so far, such as the fact that police administrations in Serbia have received 72 new stamps in the course of this year, but also that the Emergency Sector has already received 14 new fire-saving vehicles during this year, but that we are expected by the end of the year to purchase 60 new fire-saving vehicles that will most significantly improve the situation of the fleet itself. I think it's very important. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like special attention to focus on the attitude of local self-government in Serbia when it comes to the bill itself. So we have a problem with a certain number of local self-government whose leadership behaves in one extremely irresponsible way and I think that there is the most dramatic example of the mayor of Capca, who also spent the day in Strasbourg yesterday, instead of being in his workplace. There he sued his country, his citizens, his country. He accused the state of his own incompetence and his own failures and it's not his first time. I will remind him that he was also this summer, along with that Paunovic unhappy from Paracino, Istanbul, that he also sued his country, but what you will, today, is the opposition in Serbia, an opposition that, instead of looking forward to elections, escapes the election as the devil from the cross, as our people say. So you've heard probably, Madam Minister, that the opposition has decided to boycott the elections in these four municipalities that are in December with some explanation that they are irregular, and they don't actually have candidates. They're not capable of gathering signatures, or any other law intended for procedural matters, and then it's easiest to accuse us of being irregular elections, that there are no conditions, and in fact they want to hide their incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49251	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49252	Thank you, Your Honor. The most respected minister with a co-worker, fellow MPs, was my colleagues talking about the floods today. However, the Emergency Sector includes the removal of the effects of earthquakes, fires, slides, technological dangers, terrorism and other weather disasters. They provide assistance in car accidents, rescue on water, and help with epidemics. With this list, I would like to remind everyone here in the O.R. and the citizens of Serbia of the importance of the Emergency Sector. When it's hard for us, there's the Emergency Sector. The state of Serbia takes care of all its citizens, but it also cares about the members of the MUP to be satisfied with their work, well paid, as they deserve. That is why there is a new increase from 1 January 2019 to 9%. This sector is constantly improving, and the most recent plan is to supply alarm equipment and transfer the entire service to new equipped rooms with better working conditions. The Kasar "Bagremar" in Mladenov plans to build a new fire station by the end of next year and the National Training Centre for Emergency Training for the next three years. In my town, SNS has been in power since 2015, and much has been done since then. And so this new station and this center can't be compared to the ground building and the conditions that we inherited from our predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49253	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49254	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister for Co-operation, as Article 4 of the proposed law refers to the assessment of the risk of activity and the mutual co-operation of entities with protection and the removal of the consequences of elementary damages, I will again return to the situation we had this year in the Municipality of Grock. This year, in June, the territory of the Municipality of Grocka hit a worse flood than in 2014. The stormstorm caused massive material damage within minutes. She carried everything in front of her. The most endangered places were Begaljica, Umchari, Kamendol, Brestovic, Boleč and some parts of Grocke. The deep-sea stream took the bridge away in seconds on the Smederjev road. Drowned cars, cracked asphalt on the roads, shot all over the place. It's a scary picture. Due to the enormous application of mud and mud, traffic on the Belgrade-Pogorjevac track has also been stopped. We had co-ordinated co-operation and rapid intervention of all emergency headquarters services, fire departments, the MUP. And these crews fought with a water stream all night long. We failed to prevent the damage that had already occurred and the days after the accident had been cleaned and remedied. The damage was estimated at over 200 million dinars. Today, several months after the flood, along with the co-operation "Serbian Ways", we solved the problem of part of the road on Smederevski road, where the water took the bridge and is working on the reconstruction of the destroyed roads in Kamendol. With the co-operation of "Belgrade Road" we have rescheduled support walls and damaged water network in the city. However, there are many more weak and risky points in our municipality and thanks to the city's co-operation, and with the great effort of our leadership, I hope we will solve all the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49255	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49256	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Kuburovic with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen, the submission of this amendment is further defined by Article 4 of this law, and particularly points out the particular consideration of the problem of addressing the effects of the floods. The Emergency Law has defined the roles and responsibilities of all relevant actors in the system, including citizens, state authorities, autonomous provinces, local self-government, companies and other organisations, then international co-operation and other issues related to the structure and functioning of the system. Serbia is exposed to various dangers from various natural disasters, including earthquakes, floods, droughts, forest fires and storms. Our citizens began to be far more responsible for dealing with emergency situations. The flood that took place in May 2014 was a major turning point for Serbia. Since then, much has changed in the minds of people, local communities, and in the communication of state authorities. In view of all of this and through the proposals of the law on the agenda, responsible leadership today acts on the political scene, taking care first and foremost of the lives of citizens, adopts draft laws that will allow preventive and timely action in the face of dangers and, in the event that they happen, they will be able to act effectively and responsibly to address the consequences of them. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party will vote for this and other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49257	Thank you, Dr. Pavlovic. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49258	The President-in-Office, respected minister with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations will create the necessary regulatory conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural and other disasters, which will contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens. Only such roof system law can establish mandatory basic principles on which the whole system is based and define legal solutions based on modern methods and best practices applied to the same objective and with which individual solutions from different areas are further coordinated. During the catastrophic floods in 2014, the bridge on the Adriatic Sea near Draginjac kneeled before the river. About 8,500 inhabitants of Gornji Jadra from about a dozen villages were left without communication with other parts of Loznica's territory. Help came first from our army that set up a Pontoon bridge that used the locals until the then government led by President Alexander Vukic built a bridge on the Adriatic with a total value of 58.8 million dinars. It was only one of 276 built bridges over the course of two years in areas affected by floods in the total length of 15km of bridges. In the Mačvanska district alone, our country invested around 40m euros in the reconstruction of 125km of traffic in 2015 and 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49259	National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49260	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the 4th Article of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations in order to further define the member involved in the risk management of disasters in a manner based on cross-sectoral co-operation, i.e. on mutual coordination. Through all areas covered by the law we are now discussing and through areas defined through the laws on the agenda of the Ministry of Interior and the domain of the Ministry of Justice, there must be strong cross-sectoral co-operation and partnership, and these are principles based on the functioning of the responsible leadership implemented by the SNS programme. As the President of the Republic implements his policy in order to preserve peace and stability, in the first place, which is fighting for the economic growth and development of our country, some mayors and presidents of municipalities who train the well-being of such action by President Aleksandar Vukic to go to Europe and the world and talk all the worst about him, about his country, about the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead, more morally, correctly and safely with a positive outcome would be to deal with, for starters, at least these areas defined by the domains of these laws that we are discussing today and for the beginning can at least be dealt with by preventive action. For example, after facing catastrophic floods, Ub municipality, the municipalities from which I come, and since last year the signatories of the Protocol on City Cooperation and the municipalities of the Kolubara Basin, and the intention is that local self-governments work coordinatedly to prepare planning and strategic documents in the area of risk management, from the area of development of civil protection units and much more. This is how the mayors and presidents of municipalities should work, coordinated, based on the interest of their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49261	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic, to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49262	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, which reads - by applying this law, encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the recovery of floods. When it comes to solutions, which are related to emergency reactions, they are based on existing solutions. The news is that some are simplified to ensure their ease of application, but the basics remain the same, given that so far solutions have proved to be very effective. The best example is the reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the May floods in 2014 and the challenges that occurred in all phases, from evacuations and actions aimed at reducing the inevitable damage to a minimum, to the recovery of it. Crisis teams were in constant contact with various local centres, coordination, called for emergency assistance, responded to situations that posed a direct danger to the lives of people and material goods. In addition, crisis teams co-ordinated the work of 16 ministries and agencies involved in responding to this natural disaster at national level, and each ministry established its own crisis team. The sector's employees co-ordinated the work of crisis teams and the activities of the Red Cross of Serbia, as well as the side of the assistance that was coming. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management creates legal grounds for the establishment of a single integrated system and is in line with the real needs of protecting population and material goods from possible and other disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49263	National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49264	Thank you, Chairman. Looking into the future, Serbia should view natural disaster as an opportunity and a chance to correct the shortcomings that have existed for many years, and the recovery and reconstruction programme should be seen as an integral part of the economic development plan. In this regard, problems such as identification and risk reduction should be part of the development plan, as they have a negative impact on the most vulnerable groups – poor, Roma, low-income people, persons with disabilities, women. What is key to reducing risk is repair, reconstruction, expansion, improvement of flood defence infrastructure, as well as improvement of waste disposal in mining and other manufacturing activities. In addition, improving the flood forecast system is another prerequisite for reducing the risk of natural disasters, which can be accessed at regional level through co-operation with neighbouring countries and creating economies of scale. When a major disaster occurs, such as the 2012 floods, 2014, 2016, in part and 2017, the first measure is recovery, damage to the embankments and drainage systems due to floods. As was the case with previous major floods, all events were recorded and victims and damages were recorded. What's going on? Just because absolutely nothing was invested in the water industry from 2008 to 2013, it did not happen again. It should be said that the key feature of this law is to put in place prevention. So, prevention, first-plan education, and, according to all the data available to the UN, every dinar invested in the water industry is being irradiated eight times. It should be prevented, not treated, and I'm sure in the voting day, everyone will support our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49265	Thank you, colleague Malusic. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49266	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management in which cross-sectoral co-operation further defines prevention in terms of flood risk reduction. First of all, I would remind Minister Neboja Stefanovic that this is a law that upgrades the already existing system defined by the Emergency Law. This bill removes what is considered to be insufficiently effective in practice, while solutions are simplified and innovative to make it easier to apply. After the flood in 2014, according to a report made by the MUP, it is said that the ministry has gone to the maximum level in the flood defence process, that their engagement prevented a significantly greater spilling of large rivers, and that due to such preventive action and involvement of members of the MUP, security services, the military and citizens, there was no need to evacuate the population in Sapac and Sremska Mitrovica. During the emergency situation, the ministry averaged about 7,300 people per day. The cost of 30 million dinars for hiring machinery and equipment has been recorded. However, the total amount of flood damage was estimated at 1.7 billion and this was a very expensive lesson for Serbia. Therefore, intensive investment in prevention is essential. In voting day, I will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49267	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49268	The honourable chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, the amendment I have submitted will certainly improve this law, and I think the law as a newspaper in emergency situations covered everything that was needed. We hope there won't be an emergency, but we're ready. What has proved in the adoption of this law is that, basically for every law, no matter who wrote it, how he wrote it, and with what intentions, basically all the laws still have people and human resources in the background. It showed an emergency from 2014 and 2014 on here. As in 2014, they cared about cities where they were in power and now they care about the emergency situation and law-making, while we are here trying to pass the best law possible for the citizens of the town of Sapca, as well as for the whole of Serbia. During that time, Mayor Zelenovic, who became mayor buying votes and buying it for between 5,000 and 7,000 dinars, is 11,000 dinars depending on the family, which threatens the media to sue them if they accidentally ask why he has 29 assistants. The same media calls media assassins, which has damaged the 2015 budget for the city of Sabac by fivem euros, which has lied to its citizens for investment, such a mayor went to the Council of Europe to complain about his country. On the one hand, they call for the rape of the prime minister and the hanging of the president of the state, on the other hand they lie to each other in an alliance for lies, fraud and embezzlement. Let them continue to lie among themselves in this alliance, we will together with our coalition partners along with these and all other laws again forward. Serbia knows its way, it has it with Alexander Vukic, and it is only safe in the next period and in all the next elections, the support will be even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49269	Thank you. The People's MP, Tiana Davidovac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49270	I thank the chairman. The prominent minister of co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a flood that struck the Republic of Serbia in 38 municipalities in May 2014, including the city municipality of Lazarec, from which I came, threatened largely and destroyed property of greater value. The Commission of the City Administration Administration of Lazarec delivered 1,208 records for construction facilities on which the value of damage on buildings was 165 million dinars. The adverse effects of the flood were particularly evident in the areas of agriculture, warfare, and livestock. Then we have 1,049 records for damages to agricultural production on an area of about 900 ha worth 52 million dinars. The damage from the floods in livestock production amounted to over five million dinars, where 2,902 pieces of dead cattle were recorded. As a result of the floods in the territory of the city municipality of Lazarec, 146 rinks appeared. It is of great importance that this law transfers part of jurisdiction to local self-government in order to speed up the speed of response in such and similar situations. In voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49271	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49272	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this law, which would add Article 3 which reads - The application of this law encourages the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the prevention of earthquakes. As I had already talked a lot about it in earlier presentations, I would no longer give time to those who cast a stain on the good will of the donor, who then helped the King in 2010, but would already place the accent on donors that were really enough at the time. Among them were one of the largest groups of citizens then organised by the SNS, which then showed in 2010 that it cared for citizens, so the members of the SNS built seven new houses and renovated and renovated over 100 houses and apartments by means of their own engagements and funds, thus showing that they really cared about their citizens. If such a law had been passed before this great disaster for the King and it had been prevented, there would have been not only less material damage in the King, but perhaps less human casualties. I hope that future Serbia will be ready for unexpected emergency situations, thanks to a law like this. My fellow Members of the SNS and I will give support to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49273	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49274	Dear Chairman, dear Minister, fellow MPs, we have witnessed that disasters can occur globally on the entire territory of our country, as it was in 2014 at the level of municipalities, at regional level, at the level of parts of municipalities, as it was this year in the municipalities of the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka. We heard it from fellow Djurisic. Some large villages in the Municipality of the Great Plan and some in the municipality of Smederjevska Palanka, of which the village of Golobok was the most destroyed. The city leveled with the land of all crops, destroyed, broken roofs, cars, facades, everything. Who helped? The Smederevska Palanka municipality, which still needs to be helped, helped because it was devastated because it was in the hands of the DS for eight years and was assisted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. As long as we have a government like this, as we pass these laws that are advanced, we can be sure as long as we have a president who's guaranteed all of it. What I would like to ask you once again, Mrs Kuburović, is that for the second time in this session, Smederjevska Palanca, who has 52,000 residents, return the court that took DS 2010 because we deserve it. We've had it since 1927. Please consider all possibilities. A lot of smaller municipalities have basic courts, we don't. We have a building that's quality and we have judges who already work in other courts, no extra costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49275	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49276	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, medical assistance in case of disasters, i.e. in the case of outbreaks of infectious diseases, is provided by territorially competent health care institutions, and in the municipality of Nova Varoš they are the House of Health and Exterior Department of the General Hospital of Užica. More than 80 million dinars have been invested in the co-operation of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the municipality of Nova Varoš in these two health institutions over the past few years. Seven sanitary and field vehicles have been purchased, renovated and adapted all facilities of the facility, reconstructed boiler room, built parking, open physical medicine service, open pharmacy, bought numerous medical and computer equipment. Investment in health infrastructure raises the level of public health protection, but at the same time raises the level of preparedness of all factors in the disaster protection system. In particular, the immeasurability of positive effects expected in relation to increasing the level of protection of human lives from disasters as part of the national security system should be highlighted. The realisation of these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49277	Thank you. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Goran Kovacevic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49278	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which I say and I suggest to the Government that this law, which is essentially not about the economy, is not directly, indirectly relevant, because it affects Serbia's growth and development. If you look at what we do in GDP over a year, then if you look at it in particular in 2000, we had about $850 million less as a consequence of the drought. In 2003 we had a billion dollars minus, in 2007, we had 700 million dollars as a consequence of drought, in 2012, close to two billion dollars. So much was reduced GDP as a consequence of drought. If you look at the agricultural branches, if you look at, for example, concrete corn production, then it was, say, 20% in certain years of soy juice, tails, so 20%, 30% we have as a consequence of the bad weather, or the crisis that exists in the area of agriculture. Not only that, but also the fact that the consequences of the fire certainly affect what we create during the year, and if you have 40 hectares in floods, or close to 80 hectares, you have a fire in one year, of which 16 thousand under the woods, are certainly serious problems for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is making a number of efforts. 70,000 parcels are practically irrigated, about 44,000 are intensely irrigated, 50 million cubic metres of water, of which 95% are irrigated directly from the river, but the Serbian government is aware that in the future time period it must make more effort, the Ministry of Agriculture, to make the irrigation systems look better and different. It can't be done if you don't have good economic results, if you don't have surplus in your budget, if you don't have where to invest. That is why the Serbian government, when it makes efforts in the area of finance, is making efforts both in the area of agriculture and in the protection of natural disasters that can happen to us in the next period of time. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49279	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49280	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 4. The bill and my amendment aim to indicate how much, in fact, the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations affects the reduction of costs both for farmers and for businessmen. Therefore, investment in prevention requires far lower costs than is the case for the recovery of damage caused by natural disasters, whether it is stormy winds, the city, floods, fire or other natural disasters and disasters. This law, therefore, encourages the awakening of people's minds to the importance of prevention. So far, we have had the situation that both insurance companies and potential insurance companies are not interested in conclusion of an insurance policy in case of elemental accidents, and the law will certainly encourage insurance contracts to be concluded in case of elementary disasters and disasters, and so on, by actually providing for the construction of flood defence dams, then banning construction of buildings at risk areas, etc. The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far invested significant funds in a system for predicting natural disasters and a hydrometeorological early warning system. The Republic Hydrometeorological Institute has an extremely strong observational network and all of the above will encourage insurance companies to offer insurance arrangements in the future in case of elemental accidents, which will be significantly more favourable, and this will motivate both businessmen and farmers, and thus we will have much less damage in the event of elemental accidents, and the aim of the SNS is for our country to be institutionally developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49281	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49282	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister of Associates, we are slowly approaching the end of this, I would say about us, easy discussions, because we haven't heard from the opposition a single argument, here, I'm a two-year MP, I haven't heard anything concrete from that side that can, in any sense, help us to improve even more the legislative proposal that we are proposing. That, of course, can't make me happy, but I'm glad we're getting better results. In the previous presentation, I talked about what we were for and how we lost hundreds of millions of euros because of which we didn't have flood defense systems, which didn't have enough anti-urban missiles and everything that would help us in emergency situations. But I'll give you an example, the Ada bridge cost us 400m euros. The real price of that bridge could have been 150 million. So 250 million ended up in somebody's pockets. For 250m euros, we could build about three or four clinical centres, such as the Nis Clinical Centre. So we could have had three, three new clinical centers. We could have had instead of those 250 million euros, which are who knows where they ended up, we could have 100 new kindergartens for our little ones, we could have hundreds of restored schools, hospitals, health homes, infirmarys. So there's a lot to be done, but our predecessors, whom we don't even care about today, are at odds with what's going to be in their pockets, how they're going to live. They didn't care if those who needed to save our children and the lives of our citizens, what kind of boots they'd have in emergency situations, what equipment, they cared what those shoes would wear. We don't care what our MPs, our officials wear shoes, but it's important that our officers, our doctors, our teachers and others who care about the future of our citizens and our children, have adequate equipment, and I'm sure we'll succeed further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49283	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Would you like to contact your colleague, Radeta? (Miss Radeta: Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure.) According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49284	I had to react and warn you of the application of Article 27. We have repeatedly said that we will react every time the MPs speak of the MPs of the opposition who do nothing, who have never said anything, who have never made any arguments, etc. We will always remind you that you are obliged to warn the MP that the opposition party of the SRS is in the hall and now and every time, and to submit amendments, and to speak in the principle debate, and to very patiently listen to fellow Members who speak about their amendments, that every time we have to intervene in the Rules of Procedure and do not want to be identified with empty benches. If they are empty benches of opposition, it is their business, but they cannot ignore the SRS parliamentary group, or you must not allow it. And just the explanation of the amendment, I saw Minister Kuburovic all coming to the temptation to click to say he accepts the amendment, because indeed the price of a bridge with possible disasters is so close. If I were you, I'd give him a warning, since you gave Ruzica Nikolic a warning of a much, much smaller injury, and you've even threatened her status as a member of the national minority. We can neither forget nor forgive you. We'll remind you every day of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49285	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Good, thanks. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49286	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed minister of co-workers, fellow MPs, is the objective of the amendments that I have submitted to the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations that, with all measures planned to protect against the consequences of disasters, are to give a special consideration to the prevention of droughts. The reason for this is that for the first 13 years of this century, as many as five extremely dry years have been recorded, while during the last century extreme temperatures and droughts have been recorded on average three times over two decades. It is known that the Danube-Carpathian basen, the region in which we live, is one of the fastest-heated areas, and we are witnessing climate change that is evident in our country. Since science has so far not found a reliable method of predicting drought, we are not able to predict the possibility of a drought in some space, which makes it difficult to apply preventive measures and activities. However, by following and analysing numerous meteorological, hydrological and hydrogeological parameters, droughts are still possible, and this is, in some ways, predicting and preventative action. Contrary to other natural disasters, drought appears slowly, usually takes a long time, with a possible coverage of large space. They dry up, as I said, slowly, rarely cause rapid and dramatic losses in human lives, but they often cause catastrophic consequences in agriculture and have a drastic impact on the reduction of electricity production, especially in countries where hydroelectrics are an important source of electricity production. Droughts inevitably affect the reduction of water source capacity for drinking, industrial and agricultural use, especially when they are related to river streams. Because of the high temperatures that cause them, droughts inevitably affect the increase in fires, and what is most tragic, often affect people's lives and health. All of this is a reason to support such a high-quality bill and joint forces to try to create the best conditions for implementing preventive measures and activities that will increase the security of citizens and their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49287	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go. He skipped it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49288	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, where the emphasis is once again on the protection of undeveloped areas for the development of the same ones, because the essence of everything is that in small municipalities such as the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Vladic's Han, municipalities in southeast Serbia, there are always big problems, even when the fires are flooded. Normally, we are now passing a law that gives us the opportunity to warn all these things, to protect the property of our people. Most important of all, the example of good practice is – today the fire department managed to put out fire on the Old Mountains, the Skriljski Mountains, which is a sign of the really effective work of our police, our firefighters and all of us who work there and live in southeastern Serbia. I call on all fellow MPs to support my amendment, where I am putting an accent on southeastern Serbia, where I am putting an accent on undeveloped areas, because this kind of engagement protects the property of our municipalities, our villages, our farmers, and thus gives us a chance to develop undeveloped areas. As an MP for the United Peasant Party, I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendment, to vote for us and for our Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, because I know, I am sure that this is the only way to save these small communities and small municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49289	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Explain now. Yes, yes, I'll explain. Just as I can make a mistake, of course, so Mr Miletic has his chance, the chance and the right to speak. I skipped him and gave him the opportunity to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There, that's an explanation. You didn't make a mistake, you did it on purpose. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking RTS to keep censoring me, to turn off the tone. I allow the chairman to have his order. You can get yourself a congregation and then determine the order you want. But as far as I'm concerned, here's the censorship, I'm out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49291	Thank you. Please be solid with your colleagues. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49292	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Mr Marinkovic, Honored Ministers Mrs Kuburovic, respected Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 4 further defines the principle of integrated action of cross-sectoral co-operation. It refers to disaster risk management, is based on mutual coordination and harmonised procedures and plans for the operation of all institutions and entities and is carried out with cross-sectoral cooperation and partnership. To remind you, emergency situations can be classified according to the origin of meteorological, topological, land or tectonic, right, wars, terrorism. So, mass flight from terror, or mass evasiveness. In that sense, mass refugee carries with it the potential danger of epidemics, i.e. pandemics, depending on the extent of entanglement, because we have no insight into vaccinations, which my esteemed colleague prim spoke of. Grandma. I'm just going to give you one example of good practice. Migrants without a parent's escort who were stationed in Nis played a friendly game with their peers from the FK “Worker” and those of the Youth Training Institute in Nis. The goal was not to win, but to hang out and enjoy the game. In this way, animosity that had a low opposition to the Divljana children's resort, as a reception centre for migrants, proved to be unfavorable. In all European Union countries, immigrants are located outside the city, so this was an optimal solution for the city of Nis, and the city of Nis will cost nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49293	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49294	Thank you, you probably meant article four. I'll talk about emergency situations and I'll tell about fire rescue units. The emergency situations here are particularly highlighted and I think they should be particularly highlighted and that is the continuation of my discussion in relation to the previous amendment that I have submitted. It is clearly defined here when emergency situations are declared, what needs to be fulfilled in order to declare emergency situations, when emergency situations are lifted and who abolishes them, who declares them, or eliminates emergency situations, who proposes them, etc. It's pretty clear and well processed in this law. However, in order for emergency situations to be overcome in one good way, good fire-saving units are needed without less consequences. Since we have one little color, my proposal was and remains that fire-saving units as uniform faces be filled with 100%, and that the civilian part if it is to suffer, to suffer the civilian part, because fire-saving units are the engine of maintenance and maintenance of emergency situations. For these reasons, I suggest that practically, and where we have firefighters from other municipalities and cities, they return to their cities and municipalities and there to do their job, and that firefighters from the territory of those municipalities and cities, where fire-saving units are. One more detail, it's best when fire rescue units aren't working. So we have a good condition, as well as in factories when maintenance doesn't work, it's good for the factory, so I think it's for the fire rescue unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49295	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49296	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected minister with associates, fellow MPs, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my amendment to Article 4 which otherwise regulates integrated and cross-sectoral treatment under extraordinary circumstances concerns the protection of particularly sensitive, or particularly vulnerable groups. Unlike the yellow tycoon company, which until 2012, took care of the most endangered, and above all they were children, by robbing them for 157 million, and the children were distracted in development through the Heterland Castle. Unlike the yellow company and their leader Dragan Gilas, who illegally usurped construction land in Belgrade's most elite part and built the Big Brother house in two thousand square meters, instead of building a stay for the children, and thus, of course, made a profit of several million euros, the SNS came into power in 2012, and took care of the protection of the best interests of the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories, and among them are children. I must point out that inter-sectoral co-operation, that the MUP inter-sectoral co-operation was integrated management and how it showed during the migrant crisis, because it was working with the Serbian Army, co-operated with the Refugees Committee, co-operated with the Red Cross, co-operated with citizens, co-operated with NGOs. Moreover, during the migration crisis, the MUP submitted reports not only to the committee responsible but also to the working committee in which the protection of those most vulnerable and most vulnerable is the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49297	Thank you. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49298	Dear Vice-President, this law and amendment, if approved by the government, will contribute to defence against catastrophic situations, which will contribute to the overall security of the Republic of Serbia, advocated by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs. The former regime's officials did not take care of the security and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and this is evidenced by the following examples. First, Sasa Jankovic, called "Sale Prangi", said on August 3, 2017, quote – KiM should be admitted to Interpol and thus recognise the independence of KIM, finished quote. Cedo Jovanovic, called "smrkanovic", said on October 26th 2012, quote – Vojvodina should be given full sovereignty and recognised as an independent country, finished quote. Vuk Jeremic, a former failed NATO powder candidate for the president of the Republic, called the "Wolve descendant" said in December 2008, quote - the entry of KIM into the UN by the best Serbia should hope for, finished quote. Nenad Canak, a failed NATO powder candidate for president of Serbia, called "Neso Gicoje" said on July 15th 2017, quote -- I am ready to recognise KIM as an independent state, and Dragan Veselinovic called the "Semafort Killer", he said on June 10th 2018, quoting -- the Republic of Vojvodina will not endanger the security of the arrival, a final quote. That is why it is important, dear minister, that you accept this amendment, so that no longer political scenes of such political and moral freaks, which in turn violate the integrity and reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49299	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? George Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49300	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management is a very important law which, where good luck lies, existed in a text like this ten years ago. However, it is not worth the spilled feathers not to cry, and what we had to endure in 2014 obviously affected the quality of this law that has been passed. What may be one of the absurd situations I have to mention is that Obrenovac municipality had a flood defence plan and it may be one or more of the few municipalities in the Republic of Serbia that had it and it was brought back in 2010. What we didn't have, we didn't have what Article 4 needs to define in some future period, which is really the management of risks and disasters fully defined and precisely elaborated when it comes to coordination, harmonisation of procedures, harmonisation of plans for the operation of all institutions and entities that need to act in that segment. This law opens it as an option, circles it properly, and we simply need to be aware that there is some time for which this law should be and achieves its full-scale function. You know, to base individual reactions and their participation in risk assessments and the removal of consequences resulting from disasters on what we learned in some ancient times by serving regular military deadlines or while there was organised civil protection, which was practically in 2000 when those who represent the greatest elemental disaster Serbia has ever suffered, they've literally broken down completely, is simply something that cannot be left to the future. New generations have arrived who are not trained, who are not taught how to deal with certain situations and how certain requirements of those who are authorised to issue orders to meet them properly in order to either prevent something that is expected to be a potential risk or disaster or how to behave during risk or risk situations, or how to act when consequences are eliminated. It is our goal that one day we really have a life-saving service that will be as efficient and as capable as Russian rescuers, but the most important thing is that all of the resources we invest in this are never needed in practical life. The best money invested is money invested in prevention and never needed in practice to be spent and realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49301	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49302	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 4. The draft legislation, the principles of integrated action and cross-sectoral cooperation, risk assessments and preventive measures taken to prevent and reduce the risk of disasters, are integrated into sectoral development plans and programmes in all areas of the state administration. The risk management of disasters is based on mutual coordination, harmonised procedures and plans for the operation of all institutions and entities and shall carry out cross-sectoral cooperation and partnership. The draft law builds on an existing system defined by the Emergency Act and removes what has been shown in practice as a lack, which is insufficient awareness of significant preventive activities and only the failure to take preventive action by the entities of the system. Knowledge and understanding of different risks is essential for identifying their causes and for the planning and response process in the event of a disaster. The proposed solutions aim to enable system entities to overcome obstacles to existing capacities and to develop measures to reduce the risk of disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49303	Thank you, colleague Damnjanović. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Sonja Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49304	Thank you, Your Honor. This is my fourth amendment to the bill, a member concerning the principles of integrated action and between sectoral co-operation. As we know, we have seven principles, operating in a disaster risk reduction system and removing and managing emergency situations. This member treats one principle. We've been discussing this proposal for the seventh day, all the bill's proposals, and the third day's amendments to the bill. We have concluded ourselves in our discussions, that this is a preventive law where prevention stands out in the first place and eliminates all shortcomings so far seen, as far as the previous law is still in force. One newspaper, I've already pointed out, is that more have the task and obligations of local self-government. I live in Belgrade and so far the City of Belgrade, of course, has been treated only as a local self-government. The paper in this bill is that Belgrade, which has 17 municipalities, has an obligation, in fact now and the municipalities have obligations, as regards the application of this law, because it is very important when emergency situations occur, to respond, to the city's municipalities also receive obligations to react and remove risks from disasters. As for the Ministry of the Interior, we know how good we are in both the previous year and the current, now in this year we have continued. It is their job to care for the security of our country and its citizens, which they themselves are doing, and this law is not only a proposal and alignment with EU laws, but respected citizens and citizens, this law is important to you, for our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49305	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49306	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment I have submitted aims to further point to the importance of adopting this law. Catastrophes are a challenge that shows when, how and how society is willing to react. There are ways to reduce risk and limit the consequences of disasters, as well as to increase society's resilience to disasters, and this is precisely achieved by this bill. An effective reduction in the risk of disasters requires a strong institutional basis that ensures further capacity building, improving and improving appropriate systems, development programmes, legal solutions, facilitating the flow of information and enabling effective mechanisms of dialogue and coordination. It also promotes NGOs and non-profit organisations and citizens for education and treatment before, during and after emergency situations, contributes to further development and improvement of the integrated protection and rescue system. Finally, no less important, the establishment of intensive co-operation with international entities through exchanges of experience, the apparition of best practices, various kinds of education, courses, training and development of neighbouring programmes, donations and such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49307	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49308	Mr. Chairman, a respected minister with associates, experiences gained in the previous period, primarily during the disastrous floods of 2014, but also other minor intensity disasters, which followed in the coming years, suggest that the current regulatory framework in the Republic of Serbia still shows certain restrictions, that implementation remains a dispute for the Republic of Serbia, focused on disaster response, while the concept of preparedness and disaster risk reduction should be improved. Here the accent, first of all, is on insufficiently developed awareness of the importance of preventive activities and of not taking preventive action by the entities of the system. Knowledge and understanding of different risks is essential for identifying their causes and for the process of planning and reacting in the event of disasters. The risk assessment of disasters and the plan for protection and rescue, as basic documents for effective risk management, has so far produced an extremely small number of units of local self-government and companies. So far, the ministry has made 19 solutions to give consent to the assessment of the threat of units of local self-government, and for 20 local self-government proceedings are under way. What I mean to say for the Bujanovac municipality is definitely the Jeshanic stream, which when the larger rainfalls occur, floods the household in the Bujanovac Banja settlement, but what is even more dangerous, it is that swimming can endanger the business of two mineral water factories, which are “Bi water” and “Heba” and the Bujanovac Banje complex, where we have a total of around 350 workers, and that local self-government Bujanovac does not take anything out of its jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49309	National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) I apologize to my colleague Veljkovic, I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49310	Thank you, Chairman. The prominent minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, floods on large rivers and floods are the most common elemental disasters in Serbia, conditioned by Serbia's position and relief. Serbia has about 12,000 water streams that threaten the areas in which they are located with different degrees of intensity. Buic floods occur as a consequence of soil erosion, which occurs under the influence of natural and anthropogenic factors. These floods occur rapidly after intense rainfall, transport large quantities of application and last for several hours. Unlike the flood waves of large rivers, whose announcement lasts several days and sometimes several weeks. A successful defense against floods is only possible by taking preventive measures. Two basic groups of works, biological and biotechnical work in the spill to prevent soil erosion and technical works in the water flow line to prevent large water spillage and to keep the wolf application. The measures to be applied are administrative and include, among other things, the development of a plan to declare an erosion area and a plan to defend against floods. The flash floods that took place in Serbia in May 2014 are due to the climate-meteorological phenomenon of a low probability of occurrence. This climate-meteorological phenomenon could not be prevented, but its destructive fact would be significantly less if the former government had taken preventive measures. Unlike such irresponsible government towards its people and state, the current government has invested half a billion euros in the last four years alone and ended 410 sites in 101 municipalities by building new defence systems, by regularly maintaining existing planning documents, as well as by changing legislation, as is the case with the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49311	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49312	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 4. The draft law is also added to Article 3 which reads - the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular view to reducing the risk of disasters. The reduction of disaster risk and emergency management is a national and local priority. Everyone has the right to protect against the consequences of disaster, without discrimination and to protect and save human lives, has priority over all other protections and rescue activities. A law on reducing the risk of disaster and managing emergency situations will create the necessary conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural and other disasters, which will contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens. We can't stop global change. Nature cannot be defeated, but citizens can change their behavior and consciousness and do much to improve society. That is why I propose that we support the laws that are ahead of us, because they will all contribute to a better life in our country and the improvement of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49313	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go, Dr. Krivokopic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49314	Thank you, Chairman. We know well that in the history of humanity there is enough evidence and evidence that people and material goods and the environment were constantly exposed to the dangers and extraordinary events that changed the world and human society, created history and changed the environment, but people found ways to cope with these disasters and how to react to them. Modern times have made the causes of declaring emergency situations ever more complex, the consequences of the more devastating and thanks to information-communication technologies, more and more public and so in everyday life. In scientific and professional bodies and institutions dealing with emergency situations, many mechanisms have been defined or created that can be predicted, prevented, opposed and reduced the consequences of emergency events. Many analyses suggest that the area of prevention in the emergency management system in previous years was the weakest link in the system. Also, the particular problem was the lack of an integrated emergency management system and the creation of effective prevention mechanisms, which would form an integral part of the system. That is why the proposal for this law puts first principles, planning documents and measures and activities to contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters, strengthening the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of natural and other disasters and raising the level of preparedness to react in the event of an elemental and other accident. We know the consequences of disasters last long. The endangered areas have a great need for financial and material assistance. Months later, which includes monitoring and monitoring of infectious diseases, providing medical material, establishing a normal primary health care service, water supply, housing and employment and community assistance for mental and social recovery after the crisis has eroded.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49315	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49316	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Otherwise, Article 4. The draft law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations bears the title – the principle of integrated action and cross-sectoral co-operation, which is one of the principles of action in the system of reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations prescribed by this law, setting out their content. I would refer to local self-government units this time, given that the elemental disaster first occurs on the territory of the local self-government unit and that timely response can prevent or mitigate the effects of the same. For these reasons, this law, as well as the current Emergency Act, puts local self-government first. Chapter 3 of this Act, which bears the title – Rights and responsibilities of entities of the disaster risk reduction and emergency management system, sets out the obligations of units of local self-government and their competences in the area of disaster risk reduction and emergency management. As in the current Law on Emergency Conditions of the Local Self-Government Unit, in the first step, this new law has given them even greater obligations, whose successful implementation will reduce the damage that units of local self-government suffer from emergency situations. In voting day, I call on the MPs to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49317	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Doctor Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49318	Thank you. I fully understood the position we received in response to the proposed amendment and I would like to thank the present minister for his participation in this debate. It was certainly content, it was certainly interesting, and for those who followed the message – we know that it was also very well followed. In that sense, I would like to thank all those who have accompanied our presentations and who have conveyed our disdain for receiving the media support from Zelenović, Djilas, Dusan Petrovic and all those people who have accepted the honorable work, to muddle their own state and their own people in front of the Council of Europe. I would like to thank the attention and those great politicians who exist only on Twitter, those various Twitterers who also brought down an insult on behalf of the People's MPs and the Serbian Progressive Party at this session. Thanks for that. Thank you for your attention and for the "daysoid" which, as I see it, has managed to put our MPs in some propaganda film that is now broadcast through these Twitters, the network, as it is already called, and is seeking some support for itself. In this sense, I would say - they have absolute support to continue their work freely, to publish more and more frequently these scandalous cartoons on which they represent as dogs and MPs and ministers in the government and city officials, as well as other journalists who are not willing to publish these contents in which they advertise Zelenovic, Gilas and others, with the worst possible accusations, and with all the lies, made up by the inventions at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. Let them also tell others, such as those from the NIN, to continue as much and as often as possible to deal with us on their front pages, because while they do so, in fact, their actions prove that their regrets about the fact that something in Serbia is forbidden and that someone is absolutely empty. So in this country, these contents prove it, whoever they want, whatever they want to say, write, draw on any of us. In this country it's absolutely possible. There's no question of freedom at all. On the basis of this, there is only one question, which is the question of professionalism and is naturally related to it – do any Lekicians and NUNS support them because they are such great professionals or is it just a coincidence that they are all, all of them, supported by Dragan Gilas by financial means? In particular, this NUNS, in the amount of a modest six million. Whether it's a coincidence or not, let him judge everyone by his own mind, and the citizens see it very well. As we understand it, they understand, even better than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49319	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The time provided for in Article 158(4) has expired. He's on the Fourth Amendment... (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49320	I don't know what's wrong with you, Mr. Marinkovic, today? You've got a real problem running the session. You've been messing up a lot. You gave notice to the MP to a national minority representative. An MP from Strpce, a Serb from the Serb enclave, didn't want to give a word, so we intervened from here. You just skipped it. You have quarreled with two MPs of the same group because you have made a voluntary order, i.e. you have moved the order. We just don't know what happened to you today? I am now intervened under Article 158(3). We were just in the e-parliament, actually about 40 minutes ago, and we saw that I, as an authorised representative, had 1.27 minutes, which I purposely left to ask you once more the same question. But you said finished and looked, really zero minutes. Well, did it come to this point that you wouldn't allow us these 1.27 minutes to speak, how much was in the e-parliament? So nothing's made up. Is it possible that you're so afraid of this question of ours over and over again today, and here you are, now that you're going to stay and read a lot more amendments? I hope he brings you enough water, you'll need it. There's reading and reading, but that's your choice. You are the ones who arranged for parliament to write a huge number, hundreds of amendments, but, here, before we part today, and we will see each other in the coming days with the same question, our question to the representatives of the government – will Rasim Ljajic remain Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister, or if he joins the coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin in the National Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49321	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. You know I don't mind reading this, being worthy, having no problem? I know. All right, you know. Thank you. (The Faith of Radeta: I do not ask the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I didn't explain it. We understand each other. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. National MP Radovan Janjcic submitted to the 4th amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jevtic. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Mr Igor Becic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. The National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Natasa Vukković, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic submitted the title of the 9th and 9th amendments. On Article 12 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Natasa Vučković, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Veroljub Stevanović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marija Jevdzic, Vojsilav Vujic, Djordže Kosanić and Jelena Vujic Obradovic. National MP Natas Spasoi Jovanovic submitted to the 21st amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic, writing, withdrew an amendment proposing that a new member of 23a be added after article 23a. The National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 24th amendment. The National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the title above Articles 25th and 25th of the amendment together. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Paunovic and Dr Daniela Stojadinovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic have jointly tabled an amendment proposing to add a name above members and members of 25a after article 25. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. In the name above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS submitted together. National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 47th amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 56th and of the 56th Amendment, the MPs of the DS together submitted. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 60th amendment. The 74th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. National MP Natasa Spasoje Jovanovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDPS. On Article 102, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 103rd Amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDPS. On behalf of the above-Articles 116 and 116 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS submitted together. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDPS. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 118. On Article 119 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in Porcelains After the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. To Article 11. The amendment was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 12th amendment. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Police Act You have received amendments submitted by Vjerica Radet, Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Natasa Jovanovic, Ružica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Aleksandar Seselj, Nikola Savić, Aleksandra Belačić, Dubravko Bojić, Momcilo Mandić, Petar Jojić and Zoran Despotović. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Alexander Seselj and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and together by the Social Democratic Party. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Aleksandra Belacic and together by the Social Democratic Party. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 11th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and together by the Social Democratic Party MPs. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the People's Day to vote will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the security of traffic on roads You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment with the correction were jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE DETECTIONAL ACTIVITIES You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 8th Amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Private Security You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 7th amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. The 39th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Petar Jojic submitted to the 40th amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by Verica Radet, having completed a search on all amendments, I conclude a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Fire Protection Act You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Marina Ristic. Filip Stojanović submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Nemanja Sarovic. Alexander Seselj submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the Amendment Law was submitted by Verica Radet. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Nikola Savic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Dubravko Bojic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Miljan Damjanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Božidar Delic and Momcilo Mandic submitted the amendment's proposal in the same text. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Petar Jojic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted to the amendment bill. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The first amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The first amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. The first amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the First Amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The first amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a CRITIC INFRASTRUCTURE Law You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by Natasa Jovanovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 12th amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The 14th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The 15th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 9th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Interrogation, Marking and Marking of Weapons, Devices and Ammunitions You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The third amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Milorad Mircic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 10th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Fireguardship You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The 27th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 29th amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The 29th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The 30th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee submitted the title above Article 31 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the proposal's representative, this time Minister Nelu Kuburovic, to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49322	Thank you. Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49323	Thank you, Minister Kuburovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 11th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of the Courts You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and together by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđa Vukadinovic. The second amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djorđe Vukadinovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 12th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Bar Procedure You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. The first amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Glav I, the title of the head, the title above the member and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The members and members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The members and members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Members and members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the title above the members and in Article 5 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the Club of Independent Members. Members and Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 11th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Members and Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Members and members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Members and members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. On Chapter III, the title of the Head, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and the Article 21 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Club of Independent Members. The National MPs of the Independent Members Club together submitted the title above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. In Section 2, the name section, the title above the members and Article 23 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and Members of the 26th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Members and members of the 27th Amendment were jointly tabled by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. In Section 3, the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 32nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. In Section 4, the name of the section, the title above the members and Article 37 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Independent Members' Club. In Section 5, the name section and Article 40 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Club of Independent Members. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 40th amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly tabled by the People's MPs of the Democratic Party. The word was answered by Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49324	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, we tried a few days ago when we talked in principle about this law, how much time it allowed us to look back on this particular article. The time we have left will be used to try seriously to establish, not because of us, not because of the Democratic Party, the opposition, not because of you, the minister, but because of the citizens of Serbia, one serious disturbance and the fact that we are submitting the amendment to Article 40. The law, and the entire Personal Data Protection Act is inexplicable, incomprehensible, inapplicable and contradictory, we have submitted this amendment because of the need that if an area must not contain space for different interpretations, a space for discretionary assessments, a space for abuses, it must not exist, it must not be contained in the Personal Data Protection Act. The right to privacy and the right to protection of personal data is not an absolute human right. Of course, in every democratic country they can be limited and they can be suspended in very clear and tax-based conditions and that is exactly what this is about. These are the conditions of national security, these are the conditions which are in all countries, which, if you will, in the European Charter of Human Rights, state that they must only be specified by law. What is the fact and why our intervention has served you, or representatives, of your SNS colleagues, to deal with the trustee, is not a deal with the trustee, it is a reckoning, if you will, with representatives of the citizens, with representatives of the opposition and with more than 40 NGOs, who have jointly addressed all MPs to appeal that the amendment to Article 40 prevents an incredible space for abuses. No one here is going to accuse anyone that this is the intention of doing something like that, but if in some law, and especially in the Personal Data Protection Act, there's no completely taxaccessive prevention of any abuse area, it's this law. Thus, the Constitution says that only the law can regulate the area of protection of human rights, i.e. personal data, means processing, collection, delivery, restriction, and only by law. The government of the Republic of Serbia, saying that this law brings into the interest of citizens, has decided that in the Bill on the Protection of Personality Data, the word "law", which leaves, under one, an incredible space for abuses, an incredible space for discretionary authority, you know, is not only the state authorities that come in contact with personality data, it is also security structures, it is more than 300,000 entities today in the Republic of Serbia that come in contact with the data of every citizen and citizen. Citizens are now witnessing that particularly sensitive personality data, such as medical data. They end up on the front pages of certain tabloids data, medical records, our co-citizens from Kragujevac, if I'm not mistaken, who dared rebel against the director of some home of health. Her medical records ended up on the cover of the tabloids. You know what, when the government says that it decides to throw out the word "law", I am absolutely responsible from this place, saying that this law is not being passed to protect citizens' rights, but to protect the interests of security-informative agencies and others. I will remind us all together, three weeks ago, Mr. Parezanovic, an official of the BIA, as an institution and with the authority of an institution representing, at some gathering, in the presence of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, accused representatives of the media, representatives of NGOs, union representatives and representatives of certain opposition parties of being the most serious threat to national security. When someone with the authority of the institution says something like that, it's an alarm and a demonstration exercise, and it's a message to all those people, journalists who today bravely, despite all the pressures and all that they experience, unfortunately from SNS MPs in the Assembly, someone can interpret them, if someone from the BIA said they were representatives, that journalists are representatives of NGOs, trade unions and opposition politicians are a danger to national security. Well, you can imagine what's going to happen to their data, what's going to happen, how much they won't be protected, and what's most important, and what's been going on for seven years, how much of this information is going to be misused within party, or political struggles against political opponents? It's something that's not news. It's something that doesn't happen the first time. This is something that has been going on for seven years, and now the government of the Republic of Serbia comes to parliament and legalises the misuse of personal data for political purposes, someone declares that the danger to national security of Serbia is journalists, NGOs, union representatives and individual opposition politicians, and the government in the bill comes before parliament and says that the Personal Data Protection Act is "law". We have today been denied the answers – which provides for these restrictions, which are exactly the limits, in which cases, and, most importantly, which act and who can prescribe these restrictions. The minister tried, when we talked in principle, to say that it leaves the possibility to pass other laws that will limit rights, and the law will only be limited by this law. Those words of yours, I believe, and the consequences of your good intentions do not harmonize with what is contained in the bill of this law. So this law leaves a huge space for abuses, which is not only a space for abuses, but also the intention of this authority, because we have witnessed for seven years what has been happening. If something like this is not found in the bill, unless you adopt this amendment, it will be clear that all MPs of the ruling coalition have stopped behind the fact that this law is not adopted in the interests of the citizens, but in the interests of the BIA.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49325	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49326	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, we have here just one attempt to distract the public. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not counting on the Commissioner in any way. On the contrary, the Commissioner is trying through NGOs to distract the public by providing incorrect information. It is true that the Constitution requires that only constitutionally prescribed law can be restricted by law. When it comes to the protection of personal data, it is precisely the law whose proposal lies before you today that provides for exceptions where this right can be restricted. You yourself said that the law tax should state what these situations are when we have the possibility of restricting the law and that's exactly what a member of the 40th prescribes. It is the law on the protection of personal data that restricts the law and is now a member of the 40th that prescribes it. It is also incorrect that during this assembly debate, I said that there would be an opportunity to pass specific laws that would limit the law, even, moreover, I repeatedly pointed out that this law alone limits it. This member of the 40th is fully in line with the EU Regulation that is now regulating the protection of personal data at EU level, and I wonder – whether the EU is also legalising the use of personal data in some way. On the other hand, the draft law was also sent to Brussels for an opinion where this member was told that he was fully in line with European standards, with the regulation, with the directive. What is most important is that I am very surprised why the Commissioner, when he officially delivered his opinion to the Ministry of Justice on the draft law, did not draw any attention to the fact that this member may be unconstitutional, as he now states, nor has he stated in any of his sentences that the word "law" has been left out and that this leads to possible abuses. I remind you that the Law on free access to information is also of public importance, which is also applied by the Trustee, has absolutely the same provision that restricts access to information of public importance, so I ask you, how did the Trustee for 14 years not mind such a provision to apply the law? Is it because he may have personally participated in writing the law or not, and in this situation he refused to be a member of the Justice Department's Working Group, noting that he as an independent body cannot participate in the Working Group formed by the Ministry of Justice. Once again, for the sake of all citizens, I point out that this is a law, i.e. a bill that fully complies with all European standards, with the regulation and the EU directive, which has been given a positive opinion and the European Commission, which will now allow us to be signatories of a data exchange agreement in criminal matters and, most importantly, to give citizens a greater opportunity to protect their rights. Because so far, they have had the opportunity to write a complaint to the Commissioner, and now, in addition to the complaint to be written to the Commissioner, they are left with the possibility of running a administrative dispute, they are left with the possibility of pressing charges before the competent court at any time, if they consider their right to be violated. So, once again, I would like to point out that there is absolutely no abuse, but that it is a member of 40. The proposal for a law on the protection of personal data taxically states in which situations prescribed by the Constitution may restrict the rights. And most importantly, this right now applies to the authorities, not to economic operators as it's said there can be 30,000 that can be the kind of organizations that can abuse data. What is also especially with regard to other EU member states that this law applies to BIA as opposed to the existing law that the BIA did not cover, so the question arises why you did not take care of it in 2009 when you proposed and passed the applicable law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49327	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49328	Mr. Vice President, as I said, instead of answering the clear questions that I have asked you that you have failed to hear, you have tried not only to deal with the trustee but in a very offensive way to treat 40 NGOs dealing with the fields of human rights protection and to say, I quote, that the Commissioner is distracting the public and NGOs and that he has abused them and that representatives of NGOs who have been dealing with the protection of human rights for years and decades and the protection of information about a person who has been deceived by the Commissioner and that they have so deceived... Here, you confirm something like that. Here, I will now, on behalf of NGOs, because of Serbian citizens, that the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia has accused the Commissioner that he has deceived 40 representatives of NGOs who have sent the amendment to a member of the 40th that leaves room for incredible abuses. In the time that I have left, I'll say what you actually said. You have accused the Association of Online Media, Autonomous Women's Centre, Vienna Youth Association, Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, BIRN Serbia, Bureau for Social Research, Civil Initiatives, Citizens' Union of the City of Kings, Association of Judges of Serbia, Youth for Human Rights, ISAC Fund, South News, Human Rights Law Committee, Libek, Link Plus, Media and Reform Center Nis, Network for Crime Research of Corruption – KRIK, National Coalition for decentralisation, Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, Human Rights Committee Valjevo, Committee for Human Rights Negotin, Partners for Democratic Change of Serbia, Legal Scanner, Praxis, Regional Information Agency JuGpres, Slavko Djury Foundation, Sher Foundation, Trag Foundation, Transparent Serbia, Partnership for the Open Movement of the City, Centre for the Security of the City, Centre for the Security of Serbia, Centre for the City, Centre for the Security, Centre for the Centre for the Security, Mr. Chairman, I suppose, unlike citizens, that you hear these attacks and curses coming into my account, because of the fact that I do not agree that in the National Assembly as a representative of citizens from the RS government, who, by accusing the Commissioner, accuses 40 NGOs who have directed all of you, all of us together, a proposal to be a highly sensitive area, which is an area of protection of personality information, norms in a way that does not allow any abuse. Instead, instead of re-attacks by the minister and the trustee and all the representatives of the NGOs, who have instructed us all, we have not heard what is most important. Why is the word “law ” thrown out of Article 40? Why all these exceptions, and I've repeated and I've said very clearly, that the data on personality, human rights that are not intact, which can only be restricted by law. You are referring to some EU regulations. Stronger than EU regulations, the European Charter on the Protection of Human Rights is stronger than any regulation you are calling on is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that in the exclusive jurisdiction of human rights collection and processing can be regulated by law. You choose, instead of saying the law, to delete the word "law" in this bill, and that it can leave it for discretionary assessment without any rules or restrictions, which is definitely a clear message to all citizens that this law is not adopted in the interest of protecting the rights of citizens, but in the interests of security and other structures which, without any control, will be able to manage, control, abuse, transfer, who knows what they can do regardless of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-07-0.u49329	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. We're moving on. Parliamentarians Branislav Mihajlovic, Ratko Jankov, Dr Ana Stevanović, Branka Stamenkovic and Saša Radulovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Bosko Obradović, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The 40th amendment was submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. On Chapter 4 and the title of the Head, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 41 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 42nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 43rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 47th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 48th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 49th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 42nd Amendment were jointly tabled by MPs of the Independent Members' Club. On Section 2, the name of the section, the title above the members and Article 50 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted to the title. Members and members of the 52nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 53rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. On section 3, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 54 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. On section 4, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article of the 56th amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted to the title. Members and members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. On section 5, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article 59 of the amendment were submitted jointly by Members of the Parliament Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 60th Amendment were jointly tabled by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 61st Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. The 5th title above the members and the 6rd Amendment together was tabled by MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. Members and members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. The 64th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Belačić. Members and members of the 65th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Members and members of the 66th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 67th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 68th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 69th Amendment were jointly tabled by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 72nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. On Chapter 6, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and Article 72 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. On Chapter 6, Section 1, the name of the section, the title above the members and the Article 73 of the amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 75th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly tabled by Members of the Independent Members' Club. On Section 2, the name of the section, the title above the members and the article of the 77th amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament Club of Independent Members. Members and members of the 78th Amendment were jointly tabled by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 79th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted to the title. Members and members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 83rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted to the title above the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted to the title above the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 86th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. On chapter 8, the title above the members and article 88 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 89th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 90th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 91st Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 92nd Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 93rd Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic and MPs of the Dveri parliamentary group. Members and members of the 94th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. On chapter 9, the title above the members and Article 95 of the amendment was submitted jointly by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. On chapter 10, the title above the members and Article 96 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 97th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 98th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 99th Amendment were jointly tabled by members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members and members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by the Members of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted to the title above the members and Article 102 of the amendment. Since we have completed the search on all amendments, the review of the draft law in particular concludes. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the enforcement of non-Horizonal sanctions and measures You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Tomislav LJubenović submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted to the amendment bill. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Sreto Peric submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Marina Ristic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Nikola Savic. Filip Stojanović submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Nemanja Sarovic. The title of the Amendment Law was submitted by Verica Radet. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. Natasa Jovanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Alexander Seselj submitted the amendment to the bill. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Dubravko Bojic. Miljan Damjanovic submitted the amendment to the bill. Božidr Delic submitted the amendment to the bill. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Petar Jojic. The title of the amendment bill was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The first amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The first amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The first amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the First Amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. The first amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. The first amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The first amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Philip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The 2nd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The second amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. The second amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. The second amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The second amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 2nd amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The second amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The second amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and Jasmina Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment, in the same text. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The third amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The third amendment was submitted by Zoran Despotovic. Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Momcilo Mandic. The third amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 3rd amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The third amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. The third amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Milorad Mircic submitted to the 4th Amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. The MPs of the DS submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. The first amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. The second amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The 9th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The 12th amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The 21st Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Members of the SDS together submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The 29th amendment was submitted by Sreto Peric. The 29th amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. The 33rd Amendment was brought together by the Free Members. Members of the SDS submitted together to the 34th Amendment. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 35th amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Nikola Savic. The 39th Amendment was submitted by Gorica Gajic. Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Members of the SDS submitted together to the 39th Amendment. Sreto Peric submitted to the 39th amendment. The MPs of the SDS submitted together to the 40th Amendment. Milorad Mircic submitted to the 40th Amendment. The 41st Amendment was filed by Aleksandra Belačić. The title above article 42 and article 42 of the amendment was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. The 42nd Amendment was filed by Alexander Seselj. On Articles 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52, the Verse of Radet submitted the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 47th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 50th amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 51st amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to the 53rd amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 55th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 58 of the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 61st Amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 61st Amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LOBING LAW You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of the Verica Radet and the Members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 1st amendment. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were tabled by lawmakers Natasa Jovanovic and MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment were brought together by the Free Members. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic and the Independent MPs' Club together. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment were brought together by the Free Members. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Sreto Peric and the Independent MPs' Club. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party, Free MPs and together by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Nikola Savic and the Independent MPs' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 6th amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were brought together by the Free Members. The 6th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić and the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party and Free MPs submitted to the 7th amendment, in the same text. Member of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Bozidar Delic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Zoran Despotovic and joint members of the Independent Members' Club. Member of the 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Tomislav LJubenović and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 13 of the amendment. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia jointly submitted the 13th amendment. On Article 14th of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Momcilo Mandic and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Milorad Mircic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 16th amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and joint MPs of the Independent MPs' Club. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 17th amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marina Ristic and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 18th amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Filip Stojanovic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MEPs Nemanja Sarovic and members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Member of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Members of the Verica Radet and together by Members of the Independent Members' Club. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Sreto Peric and members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, legislators Aleksandra Belačić and members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Nikola Savic and members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia jointly submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 27th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Member of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the members of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The MPs of the Free Members together submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić and together by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The MPs of the Free Members together submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the Independent Members' Club together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Zoran Despotovic and joint members of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Milorad Mircic and joint members of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Members of the Verica Radet and together by Members of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, Handwrittens and Prescriptions You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. Does anyone want a word? Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Friday, 9 November 2018, starting at 10.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. I also take the opportunity to thank all the MPs for their participation in the work and to thank especially Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic and Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for his participation in the work. Thank you.
