ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44711	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44712	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a first question for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In fact, it concerns a visit to Moscow and it is my question – what really was the content of that visit and what happened there? Namely, this visit was announced to a large bell, it was well followed. The president said -- we got everything we asked for, but the public still didn't know what Serbia was looking for, or what we got. There's a discrepancy in media coverage. Namely, the domestic media, and here, of course, are led by tabloids under the control of the government, or regimes, speak of the fact that, behold, minority Russia is coming here with the military to help Serbia free its southern province. On the other hand, Russian media, I will quote the list "Comersant", saying Putin rejected Vucic's request that Russia veto Kosovo's seat in the UN, and in return Serbia will not join NATO. What's the truth? Is it true that the Wolf really wanted it and was rejected or "Comersant" is lying? Someone's lying here. So they lie to either the Russian media or our media. My second question is the REM issue, addressed to REM and Culture Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. The question is this: what will REM and what will make the Minister of Culture to take away the national frequency which, to quote what the Constitution says, is "publicly well of general interest" and which, according to Article 87(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia represents state property? So two days ago, the Serbian public witnessed that this house was mocked, through the mouth of one participant of the "Corruption" reality, little Milica Rakic, telling a terrible joke about this unfortunate child who died of a martyr's death in NATO bombing in 1999. I know, like everyone else, that he was disqualified from the Cooperative, but the word went, the insult went. She was insulted and humiliated not only by little Milica Rakic, but also by all our children who died in NATO bombings and were thrown out of a mockery, they were thrown out, to apologize for the expression, the heavy mockery and the defamation. So I really don't know what else is going to happen and this media house is suffering certain sanctions? This was done with state property. So it wasn't done with either Twitter or any Facebook, it was done with state property. This is not a verbal delicacy, this is a delicacy of honor. This demeaning of children who have died a martyr's death has never been, this has never been seen in Serbia before, and it should stop. That is why my question is for the Minister of Culture and REM – what will you do to make "Pink" lose the national frequency?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44713	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44714	I have a question for the minister of justice. Why do Milorad Ulemek Legion and Zvezdan Jovanovic suffer the punishment of a long-term prison in extremely horrible, inhuman and humiliating conditions? Both have been in the special ward of the Zabel correctional office in Pozarevec for ten years, and before that were four or five years, one four, one five years, in an investigative prison. It is, therefore, a total of 15 years in messy conditions. Every two years, they have the opportunity to submit a request to take them out of that special department into normal conditions and every two years reject them, and they do not give any explanation, because the court that makes the decision does so on the basis of a report from the special department of the Fireman, a report from the Police Directorate and a report from the BIA. All these three reports are top secret, and they say they're so confidential that even a man who's concerned can't know what the reasons are. Where's that? In what country in the world? That wasn't even Hitler's. And they made sure that at least a little respect was respected. Every time they complain, they don't know what they're complaining about. They're looking for records. I can't even get an I.D. on the file. How can a complaint be written if there's no insight into the file? Still, both are sentenced to these long-term prison sentences for fabricated, unproven guilt based on falsified evidence, unlawfully obtained evidence and false testimony. What may shake you, there is a report on a visit to the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, which was submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 11 February 2011. The Serbian government responded to that, but did nothing to change things. The law on the maintenance of criminal sanctions, which is under consideration, has been passed by a more Dosmanian regime, you have done nothing to change that law. The European Committee's report says the regime in the Special Department in Zabela can be described, I quote -- as a regime that is at the border of inhuman and humiliating. The only time prisoners see other prisoners is during a daily two-hour physical exercise in an open space, which is performed in an impressive and naked yard. There are regulations that require that the exit to fresh air, on a daily walk, be carried out in the courtyard of greenery, by man number of certain squares of grassy surfaces and trees. In accordance with Article 32 of the Treaty on the Functioning The ZIKS, a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, is allowed to interact with each other in that time for a maximum of five prisoners, which also does not meet world standards. They tried to do it in The Hague at first, and after two years they had to change everything. The rest of the day prisoners remain locked up in their cells under constant video surveillance. Prison personnel have the right to speak to prisoners exclusively in terms of greetings and instructions, always referring to a prisoner by his last name, other talks are prohibited. Nevertheless, prisoners may request a meeting with a social worker, a psychologist, a teacher, or a teacher. In world practice, civilised practice insists that convicts have as much direct contact with the guards as possible, that they have provided us in The Hague, and that they treat us familyly, treat us, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44715	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44716	I haven't finished it yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44717	You're done, five minutes out. Here, five minutes and 20 seconds. Thank you, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44718	I'll tell you what else.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44719	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44720	They found that this could not lead to the resociation of prisoners, but to extreme desocialization and severe mental illness.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44721	Thank you. He's got a word... (Branka Stamenkovic: So will I. ) Of course, colleague Stamenkovic, for you especially. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44722	Thank you. Two questions for Culture and Information Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. First of all, at what stage is the creation of a proposal for financing public media services of RTS and RTV, at which stage are the amendments and additions to the Law that defines the financing of public services? Why this question? Two years ago, the minister introduced a bill extending the deadline for RTTV and RTS, for a year I submitted amendments and reasonablely, the minister accepted both of my amendments, so in 2016, the deadline for the current funding method was extended to two years and the deadline expires in a few months. If there is no definitive proposal, then it would be good for the minister to inform us that we are preparing amendments so that people working in public media services will know how these two houses, whose funding should be defined by law, will be defined as from 1 January 2019. The second question is the same for Minister Vukosavljevic, as regards the information I request him to act in the application of the Law on Electronic Media, and the application of the Information Act. Namely, the minister was pleasantly surprised, as one of the few ministers who reads the laws he is responsible for, and in the laws for which the role stands clearly, the character and manner in which electronic media must work and hence encourages the statement and attitude of the minister of information on the time range in which realistic programmes can be broadcast in Serbia. To my disappointment and surprise, the Prime Minister doesn't read the laws she's responsible for, so she's been made aware that they're private media, so they're not covered by the Law on Electronic Media. To further my disappointment, REM member has shown that he does not read the laws for which he is responsible as an independent regulatory body. It would be very good for other ministers besides the Minister of Culture and Information to read the laws for which they are responsible, and therefore I demand from the Minister of Information at what stage and how he started to conduct in the Ministry, and based on the powers he has under the law defining the work of electronic media as well as information. For the media sphere in one country, it is unusually important that we do not mock the rule of law, and it is even more important that those who legally get the right to manage public affairs not to mock their right and understand that the legitimacy to do their job, whether the Prime Minister or ministers who do not read the laws, is not drawn from the legality, or the election result, but rather from the quality of their duties. With the hope that the minister will inform me of the final proposal for the financing of RTV and RTS and with the hope that he has initiated proceedings under his jurisdiction, I demand that both the question and the request be answered in a business period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44723	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44724	Thank you. Several questions for the president of Serbia are all about a very current topic, resolving the Kosovo and Metohija status issues. First of all, not entering into the analysis at all and the question of whether the Brussels Agreement should have been signed at all, I am finding on behalf of my parliamentary group, that in these six years all the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has made, the Republic of Serbia has and has fulfilled until Pristina has fulfilled one single one. Pristina's most important commitment was to form a Serb municipality community. The MP group Enough was in the view that Brussels talks should be immediately frozen, that Pristina should set a three-month deadline to submit a draft statute of the Serb municipalities community that is extremely important for Serbs living south of Ibra and who are more than there are in northern Kosovo, and if that does not happen after three months, then the Brussels Agreement should be declared legally invalid because of the failure of Pristina, which should also be confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The question for the president of Serbia is, what does he think of this proposal? Whether to freeze talks with Brussels and set the three-month deadline for the adoption of statutes on Serb municipalities' communities, a prerequisite for forming the community. In fact, Serbia has been opening up a completely new space lately, as America has recently changed its policy towards the Balkans. We should use this opportunity wisely, turn from a devastating so far-run policy concerning Kosovo and Metohija, which leaned on the imposed and Serbia-wide harmful German solution, only because some rotten EU carrot was waving right under our noses. Now space has opened up for a completely different creative solution that will be sovereign, which will be responsible in historical terms for generations and generations to come. The MP group Enough presented a proposal to the public last week for a new creative solution and directed it, among other things, to the Serbian President, as well as the Prime Minister, the National Assembly president, all relevant political organisations in the country, the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, with the invitation to take part in public debates and round tables that we will organise in October. The solution we propose is the draft law on Kosovo and Metohija, which is based on a cross-section between the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international law. Resolutions 1244, and as a model, it takes the relationship of Denmark and the Faeroe Islands. If one such law is passed, all the reasons cited for the need for talks with Pristina on Kosovo's final status will be removed. The word is that the Republic of Serbia has no control over the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija and that its constitution does not apply in that territory. So this solution is undermining Kosovo and Metohija under the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. This southern Serbian province is given a very broad autonomy, while at the same time making it impossible to look for a chair in the UN and undermining the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does the president of Serbia intend to take part in the round tables and in the public debates that we have invited him to and regarding this explained solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44725	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44726	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my first question to Minister Sarcevic, Minister of Education and Jadranka Joksimovic, Minister for European Integration. On parliamentary issues Thursday, she said in her address that the European Commission, among other things, is all about Chapter 23, particularly noted that the European Commission praised Serbia for progressing on textbooks in the languages of national minorities. I'd like to ask her and tell her that's not true and that in fact Serbia may have made progress in publishing textbooks for national minorities, but that's still not what it should be. I belong to the Russian National Community and I can say that the first and fifth grade textbooks don't exist at all. So it's a new programme that's now been introduced into education and first and fifth grade students by the day of today, and it's already October, they have nothing to learn from. Apparently, some textbooks have arrived, which were issued by the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks, and everything that should be issued by a private firm, or "Clet", are not up to today's issue, so I ask Minister Jadranka Joksimovic and Minister Sarcevic whether they are directed at it again and whether the "Clet" and other private publishers have failed, whether they are controlling and asking when the textbooks for the first and fifth classes will come out, and not only the Russian national communities, but also other members of the national minorities? I also ask Minister Sarcevic if he is directed to the fact that there are no textbooks translated in high schools in the languages of national minorities, here I know of my Russian National Community, in high schools? The chemistry textbooks, geography, physics came out in 1997, and some read SFRJ or SRJ. So, learning from old textbooks or textbooks in Serbian, which simply isn't possible. If it continues to be performed in the language of national minorities, why do you learn from advanced textbooks or textbooks that are not in the native language? These high schools have been around for over a hundred years, so I don't think it's right for some textbooks to be translated, and some don't. Perhaps the minister will interpret that high school is not mandatory, so they are neither mandatory textbooks nor should textbooks be translated into the languages of national minorities, but, behold, I want to be answered if he thinks that all textbooks in schools in the languages of national minorities should be published in time on September 1st and whether they should be translated? Also, I ask my second question to Minister Branko Ruzic, Minister for Local Self-Government. I'm asking if he's being referred to what's going on in the pre-election campaigns for national councils, which are due to be held on November 4th? That's what I've been through on my own case. Large obstructions exist by the ruling party in all municipalities. Local communities, verifyers, notaries, etc. have been disabled. Even in my case, I was printed out of a special polling list so that the list I belong to would not be the first to hand over the list. So, when the leading party handed over the list I was listed in a special polling list, which is not possible, I'm a member of the National Council in two convocations and it's impossible, it's simple. I've even found a solution that I'm listed in a special polling list. Secondly, I'm saying that since I'm coming from The Tower, the Montenegrin National Community is present here. The Montenegrins from The Tower won't go to these elections, simply, unfortunately, and that's a good association of Montenegrins. They will simply boycott the election because members of the ruling party are mass registering. So they're listed in a special polling list. They state in their address to the OSCE and other international institutions that as many as a thousand Montenegrins are listed in a special polling list, e.g. From the election to today's day, and from the places in Serbia where there really is no association of Montenegrins, there is no association that monitors national identity, so I ask Minister Ruzic if he is directed to the pre-election actions that are taking place?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44727	Thank you, fellow Papuan. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44728	I would ask a few questions from the sectional about the farm base precisely because agriculture is something about those of us living in southeastern Serbia, a great opportunity for the development of that part. The questions are directed to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Administration – is there any previous period, since we are witnessing that our border with Bulgaria, Romania, is the African swine fever present, are there certain activities that would prevent the arrival of this infectious disease for which there is no vaccine? I have spent the past ten days with a present director at the Veterinary Institute in Nis, Dr Milos Petrovic and fellow veterinarians who had the initiative to form a crisis headquarters and where there are now a large number of veterinary cells present in that part of the southeast of Serbia, ready and actively tour the terrain and monitor the African swine fever situation. Otherwise, it's an infectious disease. Like I said before, there's no vaccine. If God comes to us in Serbia, it's self-destruction of all pigs. That's why I'm asking the Veterinary Administration if they'll be able to provide funding through some budget for veterinary cells that will be active in monitoring the situation with us, related to pig farming and normal for other species of livestock farming? Will it be possible for them to be provided with the means to work in the field, to tour and actively monitor the situation? Otherwise, I can say one thing very important, that the Veterinary Institute in Nis, headed by Milos Petrovic, is, I say to everyone, the best institute in Serbia, where it proved to be very active, powerful and powerful when it managed to stop along with all the veterinarians in Serbia, in the southeast of Serbia, when they managed to stop the spread of nodular dermatitis, it's the brittleness of cattle. So, it's an infectious disease that was present with us in 2014, 2015, when our veterinary workers, it doesn't matter if the veterinarians, whether the technicians, were on the ground, worked on the ground and managed to stop the spread of the infectious disease, which was really very active, but at the very end of that, the Veterinary Authority and our veterinarians also got a big commendation from Brussels because they were able to prevent the spread of the infectious disease in other parts of Europe and the Balkans. So, great support for the veterinary profession, I think there should be even more, because we are witnessing that without strong livestock, there is no development of agriculture, and without the wind, there is no safe animal health, and where there is no animal health, there is no human health. I would invite everyone in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture to place a higher accent on people, on veterinarians, on veterinary stations, on veterinary hospitals, working on the prevention of infectious diseases, to provide them with fuel, transportation, so that they can go to the field to see, and you all know or more people know that a large number of municipalities in southeastern Serbia, such as my municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and other municipalities that are very disintegrated, where the elderly population of people is present and where the veterinary leg should be set foot to every household. There's one house and the next house, the next house is, like, three kilometers away, so I'm asking, will the Veterinary Authority be able to provide funding for veterinary services, for veterinary workers? Otherwise, one thing that was done very badly, which is the privatisation of the veterinary profession, the veterinary service in Serbia, which was done in 2000. It's the worst thing that could have happened in Serbia. The worst privatisation ever made. So, once again I call on the Department of Veterinary Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, to put on a higher accent and provide more resources, and preferably what I'm saying may be particularly funny to some colleagues, I'd like to invite the Veterinary Authority to try to change the rules. Otherwise, if a cattleman from Srlig or White Palanca wants to sell a calf tomorrow, and with us practice in our small municipalities, small towns, that calf is sold in three-and-a-half months, no more than four months, that man who wants to sell a calf, he can't do it three months ago, but he has to wait for the calf to be vaccinated from the blue tongue, to make a reaccination, and only four-and-a-half months later, that man can sell the calf. Meanwhile, it grows, loses the price, which is why it's a great shame for our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44729	I thank my colleague Miletic. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44730	Thank you. I refer my first question today to the Minister of the Interior, but also to all the other ministers in the Government, the Minister of Culture, of course, but I will not deliberately refer them to them alone, because I believe this is a question for the entire government, for the Prime Minister, and also for the President of the State, because I think it exceeds, indeed, the jurisdiction of only one minister, and I think it is indeed a matter of great national importance. How is it possible that in one European capital, which is hopefully Belgrade, there is destruction, that a museum in the city center, to the extent that it is completely destroyed, cut, exported, stolen exhibits that were made by hand, which are 150 years old and over, to bring out exhibits that weigh up to 30 tons, and that no one knows anything about it, that no one has any idea how it happened, how it could have happened, and especially about who's responsible for it? As someone who proposes every time here at every meeting of the Assembly, I find it scandalous that no one in Serbia is concerned, and what happened with this museum is the best picture of what protection of cultural goods is in Serbia. I want when I repeat the question – how is it possible for this to happen in the first place? What happened? Does anyone know who did this? Will anyone ever answer? Repeat the question I have asked almost every time I propose that this topic be put on the Assembly's agenda at any time, and that is, has anyone in Serbia ever been responsible for the destruction of cultural goods? As far as I know, it's not, and I hope that one day it happens and we'll soon hear what's going on with this museum. Speaking of Serbian cultural heritage, I would also like to refer a question to the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric, as well as to other ministers and all those who run these negotiations that the public almost knows nothing about, and this is a question of preserving and protecting Serbian cultural goods and Serbian cultural heritage in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike this question that we all know about, Kosovo issues that cannot be easily solved, I think this issue can be resolved, but I fear it could be overlooked, because as I have already said Serbian cultural heritage something that, unfortunately, no one cares about in Serbia. I do not think we should allow ourselves to be put before the final act of resolving the Kosovo issue, no matter what it may be, without paying attention to the special protection of Serbian cultural goods and Serbian heritage and Serbian monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that the public should be urgently aware of what is being done about this issue and whether this good will be adequately protected and whether it will have adequate status. The next question is referred to Minister Djordjevic, Minister Mihajlovic, but also to other ministers, because I also think that this is a very important issue that has not been resolved at all, and I hope that someone will deal with it, and that is whether they have dealt with the issue of increasingly frequent accidents happening on construction sites, on construction buildings, is someone doing it, have they analyzed anything, have they reached any conclusions and are they going to do anything about it? In that sense, I am particularly interested in that incident that took place in September at the construction site "Belgrade on Water", which was the case when neither journalists nor the inspection could be informed and get real information about what happened there at all. In that sense, I think you should also ask Minister Kuburovic that the public must know what this area is about and the next question, which is what about this area? Does it have the same treatment as the territory of the Serbian state, and in that sense, I think it is necessary to finally get to know the public about all the contracts, secret contracts related to each other and to "Belgrade on water" that we know nothing about, and which clearly and how they affect the lives of Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44731	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44732	I thank the chairman. Who in this assembly is the messenger Macura about moms. I'm going to ask again today about the Financial Support Act with the children. Namely, the initiative that I belong to "Moms Are the Law" was revolutionized by yesterday's statement by Minister Djordjevic, who said that our proposal for a law that we handed over to the assembly procedure on September 25th would make a certain group of women discriminate. I can sort of agree with Minister Djordjevic and remind him that our legal proposal was written to put an end to the fire currently burning in Serbia. Yesterday, we had an opportunity through social networks to inform ourselves about how the solutions given to the family in Serbia look. A solution like that flooded social networks yesterday. It amounts to 881 dinar for a month and that's a gross amount. If Minister Djordjevic thinks that such solutions do not discriminate against certain women, then I really think the shameful statement he made yesterday. We repeat again, therefore, our solution in the short term solves the problem. We did not say that this solution must be accepted, so we asked for a meeting, precisely because we would hear what proposals the ministry has and that out of our dozens of proposals and a dozen groups of women affected by this law, not only draws out the least and practically creates dissension and the gap between women who are threatened by the application of this and this law. The long-term solution, what we could certainly offer, is that one of those solutions that can be taken into account is that the minimum income or minimum income in Serbia becomes something that will be a fixed amount and thus would not be discriminated against by women who work for more than 18 months, because the variable part in this amount of compensation would be such that it refers to the number of months that these women were in a working relationship. So, we have offered not only a short-term solution in the draft amending and supplementing the law, but we have also offered a long-term solution and we believe that the minister should respond to our request, not only Minister Djordjevic, but also Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice and Prime Minister, should respond to our request and invite us to a meeting, to hear what we have to say, rather than to use public information funds to deal with this group in a shameful way. The problem in Serbia exists, it is burning and it needs to be resolved. We have offered our solution and we think it would be good for the minister to offer his solution on his part and find a compromise, so that the existing issue of a large number of families in Serbia can be resolved. That was my first question. As far as the second question is concerned, I'd like to refer him to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport. There was a protest yesterday by the International Transport Association, or PUMED, which counts about a thousand members and accounts for about 60% of domestic goods carriers, in international freight traffic accounts for more than 80% of the revenues in the dam. They blocked the border crossings yesterday for several reasons. One of them is being forced to do so because of a huge increase in fuel prices. It grew by 20-30 dinars several times in the meantime, then, due to several hours or several days of waiting at border crossings, which is why they are forced to use private parking lots and to have additional costs and, among other things, because of such circumstances in which they work, companies pay fines sent to them by customs officials. So we ask what kind of solution the finance minister offers, since it was only September 19th, after three months of waiting for an appointment, practically held that meeting pro-forma, and this group of people, who are not really small, essentially got only one pro-forma meeting and did not get concrete solutions. That's why we're here today taking the opportunity to ask the finance minister how he plans to solve the problem they pointed to from the business association "International Transport"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44733	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44734	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a great obligation here to ask certain parliamentary questions about one, unfortunately, quite forgotten, and hopefully not the sacrificed part of the Republic of Serbia, which is the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in southern Serbia, which I recently visited in a conversation with Serbs living there, I have received a number of very alarming information, which I want to share here with the public. I'll start, first of all, from the Bear Community. My questions go both to the president of Serbia and to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and to the president of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja Co-ordination Centre. First of all, the bear has nothing to do with Presevo and Bujanovac, the bear has nothing to do with the so-called bear. The presevo Valley. The Presevo Valley, by the way, never existed, nor exists today as any geographical term. All of these are fictions that actually go towards a very dangerous goal, which is to change the ethnic structure of the population in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, where it is actually intended to put the entire municipalities into function of Albanian national interests. It is my duty to speak of the forgotten Serbs of these municipalities. In Medvedja, in particular, we have a serious problem with the threat of bear's natural and economic wealth. The agricultural combination, the Lece mine, Sijarinska Banja, are the strategic resources of the Medvedja municipality, which are currently at risk, pressured by Albanian capital. We have a problem with ID cards, which are issued in an extremely problematic manner, and thus to Albanians who are not from the municipality of Medvedje, thereby jeopardising the situation in the polling list and wants to take over the Medvedje municipality, such as the Bujanovac municipality took over 15 years ago, where Albanians are also not the majority, but by changing the voter list structure in the local elections, they managed to secure the majority. It is present in all these municipalities that the relocation and unemployment of the Serbian population, and of course there are also crime and corruption, especially in the Medvedja municipality, when it comes to reconstruction of homes of health, local city administrations, asphalting certain streets and lighting certain streets, all direct crime and corruption. What concerns the citizens of this part of Serbia most is that the last weeks and months have been mentioned for some kind of exchange of territory and distinction with Albanians, and that none of the high-ranking state officials have denied that the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are in general considered in some secret negotiations by President Aleksandr Vukic about some division of Kosovo and Metohija or exchange of our own. You can imagine how people who live downstairs feel without hearing any of you government officials deny that someone is negotiating at this point and giving, I don't know, Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear to someone for a gift. This specifically refers to the territory of the Presevo municipality, and I would remind you that there are six Serbian Orthodox churches on the territory of the Presevo municipality, that there are 30 Serb Orthodox churches on the territory of the Bujanovac municipality, but that there are fewer Serbs. In particular, in Presevo you have the president of the Municipality of Šcipri Marifi, and in the ruling coalition there is one SNS committee and one PUPS committee, along with these Albanians, who are asking Presevo to join an independent Kosovo, and that you have never publicly condemned such an act of attempts to further disintegration of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, they are also concerned about the suspension of the Presevo court and the eviction and unemployment and the wild construction and the lack of VAT on the Shiptars and the rampage of Albanian flags and visits by Albanian politicians from the region. Especially me, alarming Bujanovac, since 2009, and since 2011, so in 2015 and 2017, seven and a half thousand Bujanovcans, Serbs and non-Albanians have been addressing all the governments of the Republic of Serbia and are seeking an extraordinary list, which governments do not provide, and otherwise the electoral list and local elections are being conducted according to some false data, because the Shiptari never went on the list, not even in 2011, and they rule the Bujanovac, although there are no more than half of them, but less than half of the population of Bujanovac. So it's a very important question when they're going to get in the way of these false statements about the voter's list, because there are, believe me, who knows how many falsely reported, who don't even have a single birth number and who knows where they come from, but they appear neatly in some kind of election and change the election will of the Bujanovac citizens? In one word, in the end, are these municipalities still part of the territory of the Serbian state or are you willing to trade with them in these negotiations on the demarcation and division of Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44735	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44736	Thank you. Today I would ask the Minister for Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Protection and the Minister of Education. Namely, the Education Strategy until 2020, adopted in 2012, when the minister of education was Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, identified one of the most important educational goals, which is to increase youth coverage by high education and reaching 20% of people. That's what it's all about. The percentage, however, achieved so far is 11%. That's good, but certainly not enough for an advanced society, to which we tend. On the other hand, the nature of the Bologna educational model raises a second question, and this is a question of acquired academic titles that are obtained after the completion of studies on accredited programmes and educational profiles at our higher education institutions, and they are not available in the register of professions. Problems arise precisely when young people with a college degree should apply to the Employment Service, because much of the occupation with accredited higher education programs is not recorded in the register of occupations run by the National Employment Service, nor does statistics recognise these professions. This is further complicated when hiring, i.e. formulating competition requirements for employers. They're especially in trouble with a new so-called. ‘Green occupations’, e.g. an environmental engineer. As the design of a catalogue of interest is needed for the public sector, I believe it is necessary for this coordination to be carried out through the co-operation of the Ministry of Education, whose competences are the study programmes and titles, which are based on them, and the Minister of Labour whose competence is the area of employment. In this regard, I would ask both ministers – whether they are working on harmonising the nomenclature and statistics of the profession at the National Employment and Banking Service in our colleges, diplomas that are received by young people, because many administrative problems and obstacles would be resolved precisely by including these interests in the National Service Register as soon as possible. This problem is closely related to the employment of young and educated people who often cannot be entered into the unemployment records, as their interest is not in the register of the profession of the National Employment Service. I point out this problem because of the fact that a number of young and educated people fail to get to work, and they have a degree. The second problem associated with the first one is the still present departure of young and educated people abroad and that number, as we know, is not small. Appreciateing all the government's efforts to stop the trend of youth leaving, I would have a question and a proposal at the same time from the minister of work. With regard to the volunteering of young people in the authorities of the state administration, local self-government, courts, health institutions, educational institutions, etc., a large number of young people are determined to volunteer to get a chance at employment. I know, for example. a number of young doctors who have been volunteering for years in our health institutions, lawyers who are in courts or authorities of the administration. Volunteering is an opportunity to practically apply acquired knowledge and, under the mentorship of professional people, learn how to work. According to the Voluntary Law, these young and unemployed people are entitled to compensation for the agreed costs according to Article 21. Volunteering law. It's primarily a warm meal and travel expenses. So, minimum. However, the law allows these costs not to be agreed when entering into a volunteering contract, so that they themselves bear the costs of regular coming to work and the cost of eating during work. In addition, volunteering does not go into work because volunteers do not register as employees and no contributions are paid. Given that they are unemployed persons, it is clear that volunteering is, in fact, an even greater burden on the national budget. In that sense, I ask the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs - can and can the measures be taken to provide volunteers with mandatory compensation for the cost of coming to work and the cost of a warm meal? Is the possibility of changing volunteer status by reporting and providing at least the minimum basis of volunteer insurance, which would significantly improve their position and motivate others to approach the chance of getting a permanent job through volunteering? This would certainly reduce the outflow of young people abroad. I ask – is it possible to amend the Voluntary Law in this sense, in order to introduce a legal obligation, and not only to leave it to the employer to decide whether or not to provide the volunteer... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44737	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44738	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my parliamentary question has been addressed to the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic. Under what law does Mr. Sabic, as a trustee, have the right to deal with daily politics? What exact provisions of the law allow him to abuse the role of the Commissioner for Information for daily-political purposes in the most direct way? What law? What regulation does that give him? Who authorized him to do that? What exact provision gives him such an opportunity? I would like to get answers to these questions because a political attack on the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, was launched these days by Rodoljub Sabic and some of his friends from so-called. The opposition, and only because Aleksandar Martinovic, as a national MP, was interested in the way in which Sabic spent the funds he received from the state. Imagine the MP dared to ask the false Commissioner for information about how he was spending state money, dared to ask where he was spending state money. What did he get as an answer? Salva's most terrible insults and slanders. If you look at the Twitter account of the Commissioner for Information Rodoljub Šabić, you will see that he has been exclusively engaged for days and only in the image and work of Aleksandar Martinović. He does nothing but tweet and attack the SNS. Is that the trustee's job? Is that why Serbian citizens pay for it? And they pay too much, by the way. His salary is over 200,000 dinars. Over 200,000 dinars just pay, without the other fees he's making. For what? To tweet? Here's what he writes on social media. On October 2nd, Rodoljub Sabic says -- Serbian citizens, the devil took the joke, this operatically obstructive character is the head of the country's parliamentary party. By the way, there is no such thing, there is no MP party. There's a group of MPs, and they don't know that, so. On the same day, he says -- do you believe the character who recently spoke of the people whose half-tron today, this is what he thinks of Mr. Martinovic, and what do you think of the character of such morality now as the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, SNS, in your country's parliament? In this way he joined his former regime's party friends, in fact he returned to his DOS-ist flock from which he was going, who only know how to insult, threaten and lynch people on social networks. Let's just remind ourselves of the tweet of that unfortunate Slavo Lekic, a journalist trying. According to Slavisa Lekic, after Vucic's assessment of the head of forwarders in the Assembly, I read Djindjic's letter to Mladic, the next confession of Martinovic's father – how I abused my own child. In doing so, Martinovic was passed away by his father, but what do they care? What do they care? That's the elite. It's that decent Serbia. That's the modern Serbia. That's the European Serbia. Furthermore, the same Lekic for Maja Gojkovic says – a political slag SNS decorated in Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's oral trip. Then we have that Sergei Trifunović who wrote on Twitter, and I'm sorry to have to read it, but he said I'll pee on your graves. That's what that cultural, modern Sergei Trifunovic said. This is the same one, Sergei Trifunovic, who told Mark Djuric, when he was arrested and harassed by the Cypriots in Kosovo, - keep that animal. That's what he said. Keep that animal. That's when that same Sergei Trifunovic, Marijan Rističević, says, quote, it's like if I said so to your mother's whore, quote. We have that Jesic who called for violence on Twitter, he says. We will chase you in the streets to slap you and hit you with our feet, so that I will not read where. Then Zoran Zivkovic, who called for the murders, so Jelena Macic called for the murder, and then she was called drunk. He probably drank Zivkovic that day, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44739	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44740	Let me finish. Ten more seconds. It is the same principle among all – threats, insults, calls for lynch, calls for persecution of political insolents, a sense of inferiority, because they know that the regular route cannot possibly defeat Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44741	I thank my colleague Markovic. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Goran Trivan, Minister of Environmental Protection, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Ivan Karić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Slobodan Perović, Biljana Filipović Đušić, Jasmina Jović, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection, Darko Komnenic, Deputy Minister of Finance, Sladjana Đukić, Deputy Minister of Health, Andrej Bojić, Head of the Office of the Minister of Environment Protection, Branislav Tanaskovic, Minister of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Darinka Radojević, Dusan Ognjanović, Aleksandra Konjević and Oliver Topalov, Head of the Department of the Environment, Branislav Tanasković, Minister of Health and Health Protection of the Minister of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana and the Republic of Croatia. Since we continue to work, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44742	Gentlemen, once again, you have brought 14 points of the agenda together into one, although they have almost nothing to do with each other, and you have violated the Rules of Procedure. What I'm going to do is I need to define myself what I'm going to talk about, because I can't talk about all the points. I have defined myself as my favorite ministers of Zlatibor Loncar and Goran Trivan. I am primarily against the treatment of citizens of Serbia, except in extremely exceptional cases, small children abroad. I don't think anyone of the age should be sent abroad for treatment, because it carries a lot of money and the outcome is extremely uncertain. When it comes to children, then we need to take care to succumb to emotions, which is only natural when we see a picture of a child with the most severe disease to suffer, a man would do anything to help. However, we must have a medical committee that will be strong enough to determine whether there is a chance of healing or not. I'd send a small child to treatment with 5% chance, but if doctors say there's no 5% chance, then you need to squeeze your teeth, endure and take care of the other kids. This may not seem particularly human to you, but it is rational, because you have to make sure that our health care is in short supply of money for two reasons – we are not a rich society so that we can reward doctors and nurses as much as we need, and this money we have the minister is able to direct in various other directions, to install in the purchase of medical equipment and to empty these money from the budget. You see, there was an accident here, a tragedy, a little four-year-old kid was supposed to be headed for treatment abroad. The disease was the most difficult and many doctors knew there was no salvation, but the public was interested, Serbia rose and found a human football player, Nemanja Matic, to pay 71,000 euros and make it possible. Unfortunately, the child has passed away. There was no salvation. What comes after that? First, a notorious hohstappler, a criminal named Sergei Trifunović, a man with no honor and face threatening to piss on his graves when it comes to his turn to do these things, as if he were the first to form a humanitarian organization, an actor, an alcoholic, an extremely negative social behavior, calls it "Resume Life" and collects money from a naive people. Come on, he can fool the naive people, but how can he fool such a smart minister as Lonchar? Minister, did you have any brains when they paid him those 250,000 euros? This little boy, who unfortunately died for treatment, was sent, but Sergei Trifunovic waited, there is, needs another five by 50,000, and, of course, Minister Loncar flew in and paid 250,000. Who did you ask? Do you think the minister can do that? To pay money out of the budget to a fake humanitarian organization and more criminal character? Is that what the minister is supposed to do? He can't. And that nothing is true from what I've been doing here for three years, this is enough for you to fly off duty today and you're better off – go alone, because you'll be facing criminal prosecution otherwise. Why did he pay it, 250,000 euros? You can see the Kabadai behavior – I can feel it. It'll echo nicely in public. The minister takes care of the unfortunate children, the children with the most severe diseases, the rare diseases. What was I supposed to do? First of all, we had to build the facilities for treating children from these rare diseases, so a new facility with the Institute for Mother and Child in New Belgrade or the Children's Clinic in Tirshovo, it might be easier on New Belgrade, so training our doctors, we have extra class doctors, world-class equipment, there are huge amounts of money here, I guess now talking about four billion, where Mircic, he was checking me yesterday. It's a huge amount of money, and then you need to use it wisely. If we have such facilities here to protect children with rare diseases, even from the environment, children will also come here to be treated because there will be cheaper prices here than in America, Canada, Germany, Sweden or wherever. That is, therefore, rational behavior. Unfortunately, most of these diseases don't actually have the right cure, but we're obliged to extend their lives as much as possible. And the minister gave 250 thousand euros and it turns out that one of those children had already gone to treatment because someone else paid off, and what about the other money? Sergei Trifunovic invests it in some Slovenian funds, reinvests to take the interest for himself. All two employees, but at overhead costs, over 30,000 euros a year. That's true. These are facts and then the minister of the attack, Sergey Trifunovic, and his name is the humanitarian organisation "Resume Life". He made you, Minister, a fool, don't be applied, it's a hard term, but he made you, it wasn't me, you paid him money, and now you're still attacking him for diverting you in the other direction. So what kind of minister are you when you haven't noticed before? You knew what Sergei Trifunović was doing, which is one MP, as his name was, just before, Markovic, you knew all this and you paid him back on the foundation's behalf. Why? So he doesn't piss on your grave tomorrow. What's that for? Ladies and gentlemen, our problem is that we don't have an expert health minister. The Minister of Health should be a respected professor of medical school with scientific works, not a technical assistant, and when we have a technical assistant, here's what his technique of ministerial action is -- there's money, let's gruni there, gruni here. I carried the data and what was in Nis and what was in other places. I don't want to bother you. I'll leave some time for Goran Trivan, too, because I haven't had a chance to put him on the wallpaper here in a long time, and he'll be angry if I forget him. So here's a scam, a comedy given to us by the minister, I guess this would be forgotten how he wronged the state budget by paying one hohstappler 250,000 euros of state money. Did I leave for Trivan for at least 10 minutes? I'm moving on to Minister Trivan. Minister, before coming to this post, you were the city secretary for 10 years, right, for environmentals? Come on, what are some other city planning services, which has been scheduled by the Department of Construction, how do you have the nerve to come to the National Assembly, and you've allowed the entire village to be built on the left bank of Sava, New Belgrade, on protected state land, where are the sources for city water? And you didn't react at all to tear down two houses of Tomislav Nikolic in that space? How's that? What did you do as Minister of Ecology to do that? Here will soon be replaced Zorana Mihajlovic, and you hope to stay, how do you think you'll stay when the government is reconstructed if you don't tear down your house? Can I stay home? Someone will say – there are over a million illegal objects in Serbia. There's two, three million, but there's no such thing as houses being built by the source of the city's water supply. Home feces are converted into drinking water. Maybe these appliances are so good, so they can process it, maybe it's like in cosmic ships, but it's kind of disgusting to drink that water when you know it's from two houses of Tomislav Nikolic, everything that's by-products of his physiological processes and his family. You haven't done anything since you've been the minister to get rid of these toxic waste dumps across Serbia, in Obrenovac, the White Church, Pancheva, the Kickindi, West Serbia, especially in Lapovo, where our municipal board president Zoran Stankovic was engaged, to determine the true state of the municipal dump, where asbestos dust is stored, and it's carcinogenic, and it's still done. Stankovic spoke to you too, but for nothing, you didn't react. The inspectors are too mild when they show up on the ground. However, I wouldn't come to the Assembly today, I would have hired someone else to talk about these points of the agenda, I had some more important things to do, but I had to come when I heard what you said here yesterday in the National Assembly. After what you said, you can't stay a minister either, absolutely. When you explained the agreement between Serbia and Croatia on co-operation in the field of environment and nature conservation, you spoke of the Mura, Danube and Drava area and said, "This region is important and can be interesting to us because our colleagues say that we have some open issues, when it comes to the border. Politicians will agree whether the border can be one or the other, but ecology doesn't care whether the border is on one side or the other." This is the biggest scandal in this term. No minister ever gave a stupid statement. So you don't know what it's about personally, and you're sitting in the government of Serbia and some of your colleagues told you on the way. How do you have the cheek to look me in the eye? It is the territory of the Republic of Serbia that Croatia is searching for without any basis and Serbia is without war will not give. There is no government that will sign to surrender a single inch of Serbia's territory on the left hand side of the Danube. Why didn't you say it yesterday in the Assembly, but you're relativizing the question of boundaries, whoever's there, the environment will have its problems, so they'll solve them the same way, right? Even if the Croats occupy, you hope they will occupy? They trained four brigades to suddenly land across the Danube. They have war plans all over, and the plan was for the brigades to suddenly land, fire, Serbia to start returning fire, and while Serbia mobilises its forces, intervene, intervene the EU, intervene Americans, NATO and demand a ceasefire. And that they so 11,000 acres of land on the left bank of the Danube, they usurp precious land. Why is this land precious? First of all, it's a Serbian joke. Second, it's on the Danube coast. Third, the price of that land is huge. This land is also suitable for Russian gas power plants and many other facilities. It's expensive land, and you'd have a problem with it here. And you want to sign a contract with the Ustasha state, which is still under occupation with the Republic of the Serbian Krajina. You stood up for African, Euro-Asian migration birds, and I agree they should be protected, but what about the protection of Serb birds? Two years ago, the Society for the Protection and Study of Birds of Serbia asked the Environmental Protection Inspector to determine whether Dragan Shormaz was hunting protected bird species. Schormaz is known for stealing his timely mandate as DSS, Kostunica and for being an open NATO lobbyist in the National Assembly, even the head of the delegation in the NATO Assembly, so he wanted to make an independent decision that a member of the delegation should go to the next assembly, which he should not. It's like he's making that decision. It just says what kind of man we're dealing with here. The Shormaz is president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, and he acknowledged then, two years ago, that he was hunting for terns and masts, which are strictly protected species in Serbia. Has a criminal record ever been filed against the Shormaz for catching forbidden bird species? Well, we in Serbia don't have as many sparrows as we have in Serbia right now. I used to have a bunch of sparrows in Batajnica, they come every day, they eat bread crumbs, they eat something that's left of mountainous charms, and now they're gone. Doves don't have as much as they used to be. What happened to those birds? Our police knew how to stop the transport of caught birds that were shipped to Italy, some birds were meant to be in cooking, only languages are used and they catch a few tons of singing birds, so they take out their tongues afterwards and cook some delicacies. It was Dragan Veselinov before, wasn't it? Here's how Micic knows better than I do. Then we have these huge sand excavations in the fall, a destroyed colony of beebirds and the property of refugees that are strictly protected species. The Ministry didn't do anything. It is a short-term suspended sand digging. I know the sand has to be dug up, but it has to be dug up planically. Not everyone can take out sand and gravel wherever they want, but where it's estimated they won't cause any ecological damage. There's sand on some rivers that aren't exploited enough, but it goes where it's closest and how close it gets. So these are all the things that you ministers are responsible for, and for which you need to resign immediately. Ana Brnabic said a few months ago, the government's reconstruction was being prepared, but I still have a minute, and then she said she would not be reconstructing until the round of negotiations on Kosovo is over. Now Vucic has told us that these negotiations that have been conducted have failed, the new one will continue, of course, perhaps for us in Serbia in a more favourable situation because of the change in American attitude and because of Russia and China's firm decision to protect Serbia's national interests by safeguarding both international law. And it's high time to join the government's reconstruction. I have already presented a huge number of arguments why Zorana Mihajlovic must leave. You've seen 11 times that the planning documentation has been illegally changed on the Corridor near Grdelica, that two or three times the support wall has fallen there, twice so far. It's all her responsibility. Then, we have the case of Zlatibor Lonachar, I spoke several times in the National Assembly, we have the case of Mladen Sarčević and his, at least, irresponsibility regarding the textbook that will be used in our primary and secondary schools. You see, Croatian publishers to prove to us in textbooks, on geographical maps that Croatia stretched to the mouth of the Drim River, Albania. So, through all these traditional Serbian territories. The wonders are happening in the sphere of textbooks, there's been a real mob that's hundredths, told me this Light, 90 million...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44743	It's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44744	Not yet, just to say who else, so Vladan Vukosavljevic, Vanja Udovic, you see... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44745	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Grozdana Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished associates and MPs, as far as this Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Environmental Protection Act is concerned, I'd like to point out a few things, if my colleague Seselj lets me, and since we're talking at the same time, we don't hear from each other. I wanted to point out today, Mr. Minister, for protection and ecology and to thank you for everything you've done in missed situations, that's what your colleague has been saying about these things, very professionally, thank you for professionally proposing these laws, carefully and gradually going into it. All of us, the well-known thing is, that environmental and environmental protection has been omitted, you've made it quite clear, for 30 years. Now, who doesn't want to see, who won't hear, who won't respect it, it's his private business. That's why we have this problem. And there's going to be a lot of trouble, and it's a big problem for you to solve one thing at a time. As regards this proposal to confirm an agreement on the preservation of the bat population. You know, today is Animal Protection Day, and it's a big day, who's been reading a little bit, who's reading, who's heading into these things, knows it's a chain of nature, and that it's, uh, bats are nature cleaners, they help us survive, like everything else, because we're not just living on this planet, on this planet, living both animals and insects, and everything else that's a chain of nature that some people help, some get away with. So thank you so much for putting this on the agenda. It's a gradual solution to these problems, which, of course, PUPS will support because she has experience in it. You know, membership is big, so it's just 20% to stay out of that membership, it's a big population. You know, this party has that population. I'm very sorry that the whip is in a shoe a lot of moves. But let them make a party, I don't mind, and let them behave in accordance with the Protection Act, on all laws, and the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is very important in the first place, which is also very much related to the gentleman from the Ministry of Health. The consequences of that, here we see these diseases coming to us, which aren't, we don't know what these diseases are, and we won't even know. And that's what I wanted, since I've been to some seminars, I've read a lot about it and I've been trying to read, environmental protection is an exact science. That's what we need to follow up on and deal with who we want. Local self-government is obliged to employ, it's already going on, it's by law that lasts for years, every local self-government is bound to hire two environmental engineers, which is none, I don't know, I haven't had information, I've been trying since 1987 to send it away, but I don't have that information that one engineer is employed. I don't know why. I thank you on behalf of it, because you already have a plan and a program to hire few of those engineers, who are neglected, who are very important, as well as in the chain of nature and in the food chain. So anyway, you're doing a great job of Sisif. Sisif's work that's misunderstood, I don't know why, because we're only turning what we're going to do today and when something touches us tomorrow, then there's big problems, then we're asking you to handle it. But you could, well said, preventatively, and if everything was done preventively, we wouldn't be in trouble. But it's not a preventative thing. It's all done today, so tomorrow we'll see how we do it. I wanted to ask you about this, these operators that show up, who show up massively, are a big problem. I just want to draw your attention that you have to make sure that mobile phone is important, but it doesn't matter more than man. I don't want to talk about the number, but whoever walks the streets might see it on local self-government and public enterprises. Why is that? Is there any payment? I'm not going in there, but I'm asking you best to take care of it, as well as wastewaters. I also asked, in one of the discussions, the Minister, Mr. Lonchar, that medical waste must be disposed of. The pensioners have, perhaps, I could make a proposal to pay every pensioner in the drugstores ten dinars for each box returned. Well, that's some stimulant, pensioner. That means a lot. And then these pharmacies are bound to store that material by law. You know that very well and it will help you, I asked for it in one of the debates, I don't know if you followed me, but I want to point it out again. I also want to thank you for your efforts and the work that you started, which is not started with a dead end, and I really thank you, whether you as a secretary could have had influence or not, we know that you didn't have too much influence, but in any case, as the Ministry, you've made the capacities very weak, as well as in all ministries, but you should try to fill those capacities, that every ministry is strengthened to cooperate, all ministries are connected to each other. In any case, PUPS will vote for all these laws that are proposed, this set of laws, because they are truly of great importance to our lives and to our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44747	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44748	Thank you, Chairman. We have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Reading the amendments and the addition of the Law, I came to the conclusion that when the SNS came to power, it was as if it had decided to deal with the environment and completely destroy the entire sector. Unfortunately, that's almost what she did. Why do I say that? Because in the last six years three major abolitions have been carried out in the area that have, normally, led to dramatic consequences for environmental protection. The first suspension was the abolition of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in 2012, then the abolition of the Environmental Protection Fund, also in 2012, was carried out in 2015 by the abolition of the dedicated character of eco-dinors and the fourth suspension proposed by these amendments and additions to the Law, as well as the abolition of the obligation to implement a public competition for the use of eco-dinors for co-financing of eco-projects. Excuse me, gentlemen of the government, do you know anything else to do but end it? The consequences of these suspensions, according to my assessment, are very dramatic. But let's take it in a row. The ministry was abolished, so it was re-formed in June 2017. This admitted a mistake that the abolition was not supposed to be at all, and we know that there was also a lot of pressure from the European Union, because it had to be formed, it is pointless not to have one such ministry. "There has been enough," in any case, not for reasons, welcomes the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and hopes that none of the next authorities will think of abolishing it again. "Enough has been enough" disagrees with a scandalous staff solution for the minister, but this is not the topic now. If we're asked why we find it scandalous and why, it's because we think there's no tangible results for these years, even the opposite. The abolition of the Environment Fund was a huge mistake, regardless of the huge abuses that were undisputed during Minister Dulic's time. Instead of abolishing, order and work was to be introduced into the work of the Fund, so that the responsible should be processed. This means full transparency in spending and distribution of funds to the Fund, clear criteria and equality for all potential users, and what was the biggest problem and source of abuse, the control of the implementation of projects that has been missing regularly. The proposed amendments to the law are going in the opposite direction. What really happened? Malversions and abuses of Minister Dulic were normally to be sanctioned, but not by abolishing the Fund. It is also necessary to define precisely what is the intentional spending of eco-diner. This is a fundamental question in the fundamental observation now offered by "Enough" with these changes. So it's essential to remove every dilemma about it, because so far it's been set very wide, so everyone interpreted it in their own way, as it suits him. This is why funds have been spent for a wide variety of purposes that have nothing to do with protecting and improving the environment, which is completely pointless and illegal. So something more precise must be defined exactly what the funds can be used for, so that there is no room for malicious interpretations. None of this is in this bill. In practice, everything is opposite and nakaradic. It's one of our basic objections to the proposed amendments and additions to this law. The means of pollution fees are immersed in the classic budget and are not intended to fill the various gaps in the budget, which, according to us, is unimaginable. The settlement of the unsustainable partocracy of party parasites and who knows what else, the spending of eco-dinners on programs that don't belong to the environment, for example, the asphalting of streets, the construction of water and heat pipelines, zoo hygiene, as well as subsidies to municipal enterprises, is absolutely absurd, to cover the minus is also accidental spending. All of this, under the Budgetary System Act, was not allowed until 2015 and since 2015, the ramp has been raised and all of this becomes allowed. Instead of putting in place order to prevent the mass occurrence of non-intentional spending, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System at the end of 2015. "Enough" requires the urgent return of the dedicated character to the eco-dinner and this is also one of our essential remarks to the proposed amendments and additions of the law. We ask that the environmental fund be re-formed, as a special legal person, in which all funds will be pooled 100% of the eco-dinner. Someone might say there's a Green Fund, but the Green Fund and what I'm saying have absolutely nothing to do with each other. "Enough has been enough" also calls on the authorities to abandon eco-dnars, to immediately stop using it to finance the partocrats. To remind you, the right to IPARD incentivises a person who is registered in the Register of Agricultural Lands, and this, please listen carefully – a natural person, entrepreneur, company and agricultural cooperative, among other things, and for investments in the physical assets of agricultural land, for the purchase of new machinery and equipment. The amount of incentives is between 60% and 80%, and the rest goes co-financing from eco-dinners, without public competition. What does that mean? This means that we have reduced the absolute decision on the distribution of these funds to a subjective assessment. Of course we're absolutely against it. And these aren't small amounts. Exports of incentives that the user can achieve can range from 5,000 to as much as 1 million euros, in some cases and more. When I know all this, I wonder, and I'm trying to imagine all the abuses that can come from the implementation of such a law on amendments and additions to the law. Will there be favoring users who are close to power? Will the voices of farmers, farmers, be bought? Will companies be favored for the production of documentation needed for application and other works during project implementation? I also think of the unforeseen costs of the realization phase. It seems that the current government has come up with a new, more advanced way of buying votes. In the end, I want to say three key things. It's about time everyone finally realized that caring about the environment cost us all a lot. Secondly, that nature charges interest much more than the most corrupt bankers to all of us and that even the greatest success in another sphere of life doesn't make much sense if we're destroying our living environment at the same time. So, all of this isn't enough, but we've also reached out to end the public competition obligation, which is a lot, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44749	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Come on in, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44750	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, there are a set of valuable laws on the agenda in the field of environmental protection and Mr. Minister, which you are in charge of this area, I would first of all like to say one principled position of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori, when it comes to this topic. We and how interested we are in protecting the environment, but not because of the EU, but because of the protection of the environment in Serbia. We believe that the EU is not the reason why we need to deal with our own environment, but that the protection of our own environment should be the motive for which we are dealing with the topic. What you can always expect when it comes to the Serbian Dvori movement, which is the support for everything that is in the interest of protecting the environment, as we will, of course, always be ready to criticise everything that you think, to say it, as you said, is one policy, and another is a profession. Now I must deny you in this sense and warn you that your profession is also related to politics and that there is nothing you can do in the field of environmental protection if you do not pay attention to politics and political developments. Here's what I mean, specifically, by so-called. The IPARD funds that are one of the motives to make these changes and complement the Environmental Protection Act are mentioned years ago in this country, and no Serb farmer has seen any benefits and happiness from them. For these purposes, the European Union has allocated certain funds in pre-accession funds in 2014 to 2020, and now, Mr Minister, it is the end of 2018 and I do not see that you will achieve anything in this planned period until 2020, and I will remind you that no one knows whether the EU will exist afterwards or whether any funds will be allocated to this topic at all after 2020, as I remind you that we have strong promises from leading European officials that before 2025 we will certainly not enter the EU, if the EU at all exist. What is really a key issue here is this Regulation which will monitor the application of these incentives from the EU, or assign them to end-users here in Serbia. This could be one danger to two basics or to the party application of one such regulation where the funds from European funds would only be given to people close to ruling parties or to other forms of crime and corruption that are otherwise characteristic of our country, so I ask you to pay attention to that Regulation and that, if possible, we here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in some public debate, consider this Regulation and see how these funds will be allocated, if ever there is an allocation of those funds from IPARD funds that have been talked about so much and no one has ever seen them. What I want to do here is the central theme that I want to face you with is the topic of what you have in some way not found, and we wanted to draw your attention to it through a series of amendments, which is that Serbia has certain natural resources or national resources that you should have in mind when protecting a healthy environment in Serbia. When I say that, first of all, I mean our forests, our riverbeds, our springs of clean drinking water, our mineral resources, our agricultural land. In particular, I would draw your attention to domestic seed species which are essentially not protected properly at the moment and which do not have a specific domestic seed bank, which would protect domestic seed species. Because, Mr. Minister, I need to draw your attention to the fact that if we don't have domestic seed, we're going to be addicted to foreign or foreign seed imports, and that's why we're going to be some kind of hostage of the import lobby and foreign multinational companies that are going to sell these seeds to us. So one of the most romantic issues today is the protection of domestic seed species. We used to have extraordinary institutes for both potatoes and fruit growing and for a number of other sub-border agriculture. Many of these institutes are, unfortunately, seriously destroyed, some shut down. Obviously, with the aim of not being strong in domestic seed production, but to be the victims of the import lobby and imports of foreign seed species. So, I don't see that you've predicted this kind of protection of our natural resources that we have in the body of environmental protection. Why does it matter? This is important for a simple reason because if you do not rule our natural resources, then you cannot essentially protect the environment. If it's not our agricultural land in our hands, you'll be much harder to control what's being done there. If in our hands they are not our mineral wealth or whatever rent you take on these mineral treasures, if someone unauthorizedly cuts the forest of Serbia's cheese, and you cannot trace it and only stop it, especially those parts of the administrative line with KiM, the example works, in the Medvedje municipality, that it is very characteristic, if you do not hold in our hands the sources of clean drinking water, or allow unlimited, uncontrollable, non-planned and anti-canceral infection, i.e. to say, an abnormal spread of mini-water power plants across Serbia, you will also not keep in your hands control of environmental protection. And finally, one thing that is particularly dramatic for the Serbian Dvora Movement when we talk about this whole topic is genetically modified organisms, i.e. seeds, food and even transport and sell any foods with genetically modified organisms. You are, I think, aware of the fact that despite the existing law that prohibits it, it does not allow it, and we would further sharpen it, and not as the Government of the Republic of Serbia plans, according to our information, to introduce some liberalisation when genetically modified organisms are concerned and imports into Serbia. We would therefore further tighten the law that would prevent any type of traffic and sales of genetically modified organisms in Serbia. So the question arises: Do we have control of that area at this time, does someone import it past the law, does someone plant it across Serbia continue to sell it, and especially how we stand with foods that are not marked with a specific note that they contain certain genetically modified organisms. Believe me, there is a great public interest in these topics. This is one Corps theme that, you'll agree to absolutely enter the area of environmental protection, and I haven't seen it in these proposed amendments and additions to the existing Environmental Protection Act. My suggestion is absolutely that you must take into your own hands the natural resources of Serbia, that there is no privatisation of spas, healing spas, thermal springs and all other potentials of this country. That we can't allow this kind of privatisation, the sale of our mines, like it was. RTB "Bor" that we cannot allow such scandalous sale of our agricultural land as in the case of the PKK. How many sources of clean drinking water, here, can you answer me, to analyze me, how many sources of clean drinking water in Serbia are in our hands, and how much is sold to foreigners. Tell me, you tell me publicly, is it normal to sell to anyone the sources of clean drinking water in Serbia? Are we unable to bottle our own drinking water and sell it, if it's that kind of trade, or business? Why would they give it to anyone else? So, where your ministry is in one clear and precise position to protect our natural resources, and I've listed to you what I mean by that. What's a particularly painful topic and I'm going to stay on it for a little while longer is the question of mini-hydrocentres. I am pleased to hear what you said yesterday, and I will quote you: “Mini hydropower is something that, in my deep professional opinion, does harm not only biodiversity, but complete water flow biology, especially when it is not done as planned. I have a serious intention to visit most of those built-up mini-centrals. I've visited some, and I have to say that what I've found is horror, because there's a question of the biological minimum of that water. “ So these are the stenographic notes from yesterday’s National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where the environment minister publicly says that what he visited is little, and I criticise you for not visiting everything, and for seeing what the mini hydrodes in Serbia look like as horrors. Isn't that the alarm bell, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Who produced this horror, and why is the Minister in charge of Ecology so late in determining a situation he called horror when it comes to mini hydrothermia? In the end, you say something that I want to take seriously with you, and I think it's a key problem. You say: “We may not be able to prevent the construction of mini - hydrocenters that have received building permits. “ How can you not? Who gave the permit? How could she give permission against the law? How can you allow horror to exist in Serbia? Yes, it is, not that you can, but you must, and it is your obligation and obligation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't mean just you ministers, but the entire government to stop the horror. You're saying that horror is a normal thing when it comes to mini-hydroustion and that no one can stop it? Well, wait, resign. Give someone else a chance to stop it. I think it's the same solution. You say further: “But we can fight and fight with the help of all of you so that mini hydropower does not exist in protected goods to protect our natural resources and our genetic resources all of them. I believe we can do this." Here, we're absolutely in. Here, we will support you and help you, but you too, Mr. Minister, must fight. You can't sit in Belgrade without visiting the Old Mountain, not to go out to those people who protested in Piroth, and tell them that, yes, I agree with you, let's fight together now against these mini-bodies and the problems they cause for complete biodiversity. So, what's the key question here is do you, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, become the second minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia who doesn't wonder what his work is? The first was Mr. Vlad Vukosavljevic, who openly opposed reality shows in Serbia and got our support, but then stood up against him by the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, starting with the president, the minister of military, the minister of police, REM and stopping to protect private television owner Zeljko Mitrovica, the main regime's propaganda voice, which broadcasts 24 hours a day to reality shows and propaganda by Aleksandr Vukic. Will you be the second Vlad Vukosavljevic in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come out and say - the mini hydrothermia is a problem, it is a horror, as you said in this high house, and then all will be fenced by you, first the Prime Minister, and then by everyone. Why? Well, because Serbia's main investor has been the best man of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, Nikola Petrovic. As you should not have hit Zeljko Mitrovic, the godfather of Alexander Vulin, the defence minister, so I believe you must not hit Nikola Petrovic, godfather of Alexander Vukic, because that is the background of that horror you spoke of. Nikola Petrovic is a horror, just so we know, to say it publicly, because if they are a mini hydro-hitting horror, and behind them is Nikola Petrovic, the best man, as an investor, so Nikola Petrovic is equally a horror, which no one can touch, which is a protected white bear in this country. Here we come to a fundamental question and I will introduce you, it's very precise, because I am seriously preparing for discussions, with specific issues concerning the city of Pirota and the municipality of Književec, so let me draw your attention to specific data. By building a mini hydropower plant in the area of the Old Mountain, where the construction of seven mini power plants with a total derivation line length of 45 kilometers was planned, the energy potential of a total of five megavolts of total installed power would be obtained, and more than 80% of all water streams and number and length would be destroyed. The currents of Javorska, Studenačka, Rekicka, Zaskovak and Toprolol River would be completely destroyed. For the purpose of building a mini hydrocentrale only in the delinquent of the Topladol River, nearly ten thousand meters of roads would be penetrated that would be exclusively in the function of building a mini-hydrocentrale, which would permanently damage the complete biodiversity of the Stara Planina. The Jerma Special Reserve, a spatial plan that is in preparation, plans to build a large dam power plant on the river Jerma and several small derivation plants on the rivers Rakička, Kusovranska, Poganovska, as well as on their tributaries – Ribni dol, Ljulja and Selaška river. The construction of such energy plants not only destroys these water streams, but also a very rich and developed biodiversity of ecosystems surrounding them. The local communities of the villages of Poganovo, Podortvi, Sparks, Kusa Vrana, Petacinci and Rakita, and you know how much these peasants have raised rebellion and their voice against the construction of the mini hydrocentrale, and I do not know that you have visited and honored your visits, which are connected with their basic life needs to these water streams, would suffer lasting consequences first of all in life, and then with the planned numerous urban, agricultural, tourist or ethnological activities of a variety of types. So, the Serbian Dvora Movement as a responsible state-run party does not want to support the destruction of life in these areas, but rather wants its activities to accelerate the development of the Old Mountain and the Jeremiah Special Reserve. The need for water supply, the protection of biodiversity, the development of agriculture and tourism, the aesthetic and sports opportunities of small water streams are our priority for Serbia's life. The existing legislation of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise mini hydropower plants on the smallest rivers of Serbia as useful if their capacity is not above 10 megavolts, therefore, if not above this figure. We demand respect for the law of the Republic of Serbia and nothing more, and you do an analysis of where all the violations of the laws of the Republic of Serbia are to obtain these building permits for the construction of the mini-hydrocentrale and here is how you will challenge and challenge those building permits and call for the criminal responsibility of those behind it. Here's the law, let me remind you. The Nature Protection Act has been declared good of general interest to the Republic of Serbia and enjoys special protection as such. The organisation, arrangement and use of space, construction of buildings in protected areas is carried out on the basis of a spatial plan of a specific purpose, i.e. an urban plan, which must be in line with the Nature Protection Act, the Protection regimes Regulation and the Act declaring the area of protection. In accordance with Article 29 and Article 35. Nature Protection Act and Article 6. The regulations on protection regimes are prescribed that works and activities that are limited, which threaten some of the fundamental values of the protected area, are prohibited in accordance with the law, the act on declaration and international contracts. That's the basis on which you can call. Stop those works. Don't do that. Ask for building permits, question changes in urban and spatial plans if they have made it possible and simply interfere with the protection of biodiversity and the environment in Serbia. All activities that have led to the granting of permits to build a mini hydrocentrale in the protected area of the Old Mountains, which have been made by local and republican authorities, must be reviewed and sanctioned in accordance with the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. It must be prevented from building mini-hydro-centrals in the areas mentioned above, investors shall be compensated if necessary, and the culprits of the attitude towards nature should be punished in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, the Serbian Dvora Movement is to exploit all the energy potentials of the Republic of Serbia, but in line with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. We want to protect nature, but also to produce the necessary amount of energy, which is also possible for solar panels and wind parks that can be placed outside protected areas of nature and will not endanger the environment. So, when, Mr. Minister, are we going to have, for example, work on RTS one public debate, so that we can call on the deans of the five universities of the University of Belgrade, which in an open letter to the public, opposed the construction of derivative mini power plants, as well as representatives of environmental societies? So what we're hiding when it comes to these illegal constructions, these wild constructions, these illegal constructions, and something that certainly endangers life in these rural areas of Serbia that have other potentials that you should protect. So my question here is very simple – do you want to get involved, so that we together, what I'm offering you, fight these investors who think they can work against the law of Serbia or are you going to say - I can't do anything, they've issued building permits? Mr. Minister, let's see together how building permits have been issued, to whom construction permits have been issued, is that why the urban and spatial plan has been changed, is there anything against the law, what was the opinion of the competent institutions in charge of environmental protection, what was the opinion of your ministry, has anyone asked you anything or anyone is doing whatever they want here in the country as a symbol of all symbols – wild construction on top of the Copalnik? Mr. Minister, if someone can build a wild object at the top of the Copalnik, which sees all of Serbia and the police, the competent inspectors and the competent state services can't bring it down because there are certain criminal circles close to the ruling SNS, imagine what they're doing on the Old Mountain, where no one sees what's going on? Imagine what they're doing on the old mountain? If you can build wildly on the top of the Kopalnik that everyone sees, and they can't bring it down because of the people behind it, then imagine how much you can't just call Nikola Petrovic publicly and ask him – sorry, what are you doing on the Old Mountain or on other parts of Serbia, where you are building who knows how many dozens and dozens of mini hydro-centrals that have received these controversial building permits, despite protests and riots of the local population. I ask you, to convince me that you're honest with all this stuff you're doing, let's go together for one of those protests of these people, say, down on the Old Mountain. Let's go together, so you can talk to them and say yes, and I'm against this, here, I'm trying and I'm fighting, but someone else here obviously makes it impossible to protect the environment and issue illegal building permits. You have an obligation to these people, if you are already the Minister for Environmental Protection, to be with them in those protests. And then we'll all believe that you really are a fighter. Otherwise you are Vladan Vukosavljevic, two of you are stronger, from him Zeljko Mitrovica and from you Nikola Petrovic and then it is clear who is ruling this country. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44751	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44752	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating a violation of article 106. The Rules of Procedure, given that you have allowed something that is inadmissible to the MPs of the people, and thus Bosca Obradovic, which is that, for populist purposes and for political marketing, abuses the session of the Assembly, calling for something that is certainly not the point of the agenda. Today, neither Mr Vukosavljevic nor REM nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the item of the agenda. The agenda point is clearly defined, and it needs to be addressed and debated with due attention, not populism, not political marketing, as it was done here. If there was one sincere intention, desire and goodwill to change something, it would certainly be commented in a different way, not this dim. Why? Because Serbia, and thus also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also the RES ministry, is involved in a concept that is in fact part of the European concept of environmental protection and in this direction, and we propose laws, or the Government proposes laws, and we discuss them and hope to adopt them without any dilemmas. That is why I ask that you do not have the tolerance for populistism in the future, because in this way and threatens the dignity of the Assembly, that you do not have the tolerance to insult anyone who is not in this Assembly, especially those who are present here, because ministers are not clay pigeons to be shot from the ranks of parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44753	I agree, colleague, that ministers are not clay pigeons, but you as a lawyer, when you explain to your colleague Obradovic what legal continuity is, then we can try to get him to discuss only the topics of the agenda. It's morally inherited in the family. It's where it gets there. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (No) Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Chairman, I admire your tolerance but you should have warned Bosko Obradovic to stick to it and to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, namely, the one who ran into the Old Mountain yesterday from 200 km an hour, about which there is a video, what are you going to do, the bully in the car is a driving bully and it is a miracle that the farmers even saw him there and that he saw them briefly. But there is a violation of dignity because it is common knowledge that when he talks about modified organisms, he is a modified Ljotic in the yellow court of Dragan Gilas. It's the most modified organism. Secondly, you all know he's picking her up with Bulgaria's "Attack". I hope he made a deal with who the Old Mountain belongs to. When he spoke to them, until Vranja, he went to Bulgaria's Ataka. The "Ataka" organisation, which, by the way, is its positim fascist organisation. Also with Pernar, who attends Ustasha gatherings, holds these strong ties. So the violation of dignity is multiple. He's talking about mini-stations. I don't think he even knows what a mini power plant is, and that his hatred for the government, according to the government, according to Alexander Vukic, turns it into electricity, that's what Tesla used to say, you can shine all over Europe. I agree with him that they're the responsible state's party because they'll be responsible for undermining the state, because that's all they're worth... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... Like moles, they work for the state, but not for ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44755	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44756	Thank you, Chairman. I don't advertise anything, because commercials are broadcast in reality programs, so I find it odd that previous MPs advertise the Rules of Procedure. It would be their turn to learn, not to be taught by the young MPs, I think it points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I now point to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 108, which says that you are looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure at this session. Very often, several MPs are called here for dignity. It's really scrupulous that people who are here with one foot talk about dignity in this high house, and the other in prison and in third place they can't find each other, not even a pint to wear, they can't. I don't know why it's an insult to tell the truth. Take down that object on the bathroom, and let's talk further. I don't know if you're ashamed. I'd be worried... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44757	My colleague Janjušević, will you explain your opinion that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, and you are already beginning to use the violation of the Rules of Procedure as an abuse to answer your colleagues. Ask for a word, but please don't step out of pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44758	Here, I will try not to come out of the context of pointing to the constant violation of the Rules of Procedure in this high house, because certain MPs are actually in charge of spreading lies, of lying to those MPs who bring the truth here. As for the fact that we should stick to the subject, here I invite you to set a personal example that we'll be very happy to follow, and that someone who's right to reality the show on a donkey rode in here, and now drives an Audi, I won't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44759	I give you a warning, colleague Janjušević. Now I'm going to respond to the infraction of the Rules of Procedure regarding Rule 108. I should have meant, in your opinion, to intervene when my colleague Obradovic asked ministers to annul the permits that the government of Zoran Cvetkovic brought to the construction of a mini power plant or other permits. This is already the collapse of the country's legal order because when the administration authority issues a permit that is not objected to, it becomes final and judicial and can only be annulled by the court, not by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry or any other authority that has issued it. Mr. Obradovic doesn't know anything about law, so he can talk like that. In the event of a government or body issuing such an administrative act, and the permit is an administrative individual act, it can be brought before domestic courts or before foreign courts and that damage is collected, which also Mr Obradovic does not care, but I let him talk about it. When you say something, make sure you don't do any damage to the state. Do you think the National Assembly should declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. I still appreciate your tolerance. In fact, Mrs. Maria Janjusevic here spoke of some injury to my dignity in the National Assembly. Yes, exactly, I would be on "Farma" along with Aca Ilic, Jasmine Anna, Mrs Eva Ras, etc. That was 2010. I don't remember using any living creature from the Dvora to ride into this National Assembly. But, my God, if she thought it that way, so be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44761	My colleague Rističević, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44762	I don't remember, I deny it. I don't remember. But, Mr. Chairman, allow me, the dignity story of the person who ripped out the microphone here. Is that right? She damaged the property of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is told by the person who brought in that rock for the cabbage here. It turns out that the stone is not only a stone for cabbage, it's a prop from the Masonic, large women's lodge of Serbia, which it belongs to, although it has been declared to be a member of an Orthodox family organisation here and is suddenly an Orthodox family massean organisation. Here the dignity of the National Assembly is spoken of by those who spoke all the worst of Gilas, and then entered the alliance with them. They joined the alliance with Jeremic who sacrificed KIM and that Tadic and he would be re-elected. Now, that's the dignity of the National Assembly they're talking about. I did not meet with the Bulgarian Atak, and let them say – were they or were they not with Pernar and representatives of the fascist organisation, etc? That's what needs to be said. So is it true that it is against the state of Serbia to give some Vranje etc? I concluded in the end that they work for the state, but I don't know which and that's the claim I'm staying with. And, ma'am, the great master of the women's lodge should address someone else, and I recommend Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44763	Thank you. In accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44765	Thank you. Let me take a chance on just a few observations I'd like to make. I won't answer, I don't need to answer any different nonsense. What matters to me is that the story of the environment, of course, always causes controversy in certain people. In those who are not controversial, it can't cause controversy. And, of course, it's quite clear that the environment as a sector is one of the most complicated sectors, without any dilemma, and that every question is legitimate in that sense, because indeed someone needs to worry about what we're doing. But the question of jurisdiction is another question we can talk about. And I'll come back to that later. I said this because the future in Serbia does not exist without qualified and quality personnel. A colleague who spoke about it at first today, therefore, to hire children and those who have finished the environment is very important. Usually, the topics of daily policy or the abuse of environmental issues in daily policy purposes are turned away from the most important things, which is education, and these are our children who know and should also know the capacities Serbia must raise, primarily through educated and educated children. That's why I needed to support what was said at the beginning of this discussion. Of those acute problems, the truth is, there are a lot of problems everywhere and different. It's true that when you agree to work at the head of a ministry like this, then by definition, you're a regular target to everyone who wants to do so and you can't avoid it and so you can't really avoid being a target all the time. But in a certain way, though difficult, it must be accepted as collateral damage to the work you love, because you love your country. We always go back to the beginning – abuse for political, daily political purposes. Although it's true what was said yesterday that politics is a tool for us to change these things, as you said yesterday. I couldn't agree more. But let me just choose these few questions that I think are important, which is that times are, of course, changing our society, too, need to evolve and understand what's important when it comes to the environment and how important this really is. And it's less important who runs the ministry, but it's important to do it in a competent way. I assure you that the team leading the ministry is more than competent and there can be no discussion about it. The law we're talking about here today is going to come up with a rulebook and everything else, which will solve all procedures for our farmers. It's important, and we didn't say that yesterday, although it is actually in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, that we are talking about the possibility of getting or getting around 175m euros from this fund, and that 25% of this money needs to be invested by our country and that by now, colleagues say, we have twenty investment projects, in the first call and about 400 requests for large machinery, and that at the end of the year, we say that because of citizens, they expect a second call for those purposes. And it's important that we use this real thing and make it possible for people, first of all, to have the physical faces and the individual owners to do it right. That's why we do it through environmentalism, because one factor to do it is actually to establish and determine the environmental conditions that one needs to meet in order to even compete. So we're one small segment in that story, but obviously it's important. But if we really wanted this job to be more productive and to work more productively, it would really be a story about one day being a ministry that is the Ministry of Sustainable Development and Resources, and that's where the public expert always agrees. If that were true and that's true now, you might be quite right, but every question you've raised is not in our jurisdiction. I'm sorry to say so, and I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but I'm very happy that, in essence, regardless of the objections we often have here in the Assembly, even personal attacks that are not competent, essentially, I feel that there is support in this House for environmental protection, regardless of which segment it comes from, etc. Please don't abuse it in any other way. Also, when we talk about specific problems, so keep in mind that drinking water is, of course, one of the most important issues in our country, and when you talk about it, you know that the state of Serbia is the owner of all the sources of drinking water, so that's by law, and who and when it's given to use it is a very fun topic. Let's go back as long as you want 10, 15 years, etc. And let's see why and who it's all given to. At this point, it is so decided in accordance with the law that it is all owned by the Republic of Serbia and that the Republic of Serbia is making use of this or that. I have repeatedly said that I think that drinking water sources should be owned by our companies and our state, because drinking water has become a strategic resource. Should we talk about it? That's where you knock on the open door, asking a question that isn't actually in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The same goes for the woods. The same applies to gravel, seed material, etc. That doesn't mean we don't share any concerns, but I'm asking you to be correct about all this and that when you're shooting, you're shooting right where the target centre is. Don't throw any questions at us about your need to make the environment better, it's not all in our jurisdiction. Don't make us something we're not, if nothing else, it's unfair. Because the job we're doing is Don Quixoteski and without the help of all of us there are no results and don't put us in that context because I won't accept it, because this is an epic fight for our children who are supposed to happen tomorrow, in such a way as to give the results that we live better. I won't accept that you're putting us in the context of any people, any situations and anything that doesn't actually work in the interests of your own country. We don't work in the interest of our own country?- I'm sorry. Well, it's not-it's not. I'm kind of experiencing it differently. I'm experiencing it exactly the opposite and I don't believe it, and I'm sure you're wrong when you label us that way. You may not have a bad intention, but you're doing it. Don't do this to people who deal with the environment, because in that positive sense, they take care of all of us, trying to make sure that no matter what thoughts he has in his head is the same for all of us who do it, and that's really the case. I don't want to let it cloud the fact that there's some day-to-day debate here, which is also legitimate, but don't put us in that context, please, there's no reason, there's no reason. When it comes to mini hydrothermia, my favorite theme. You're knocking on the open door again in a way that says the Ministry doesn't do anything about it and, you know, some things have changed dramatically on our arrival. We agreed to the Pakleštice, there in July and August, in August last year we withdrew. When did someone do it in the state? And that's why you're attacking us now? Well, I'm not sure. Don't come after us for that sort of thing. It would be honorable and fair to say – every honor of the Ministry of Environment which has been given the strength to withdraw its signature and to say – it must not be done so. You can't work somewhere in a mini-water centre where it's found that there are strictly protected species and then the Ministry says behind that – we're against the fact that mini-hydroelectrics are built in protected goods, please. That's the only truth. We've been seeing people who are fighting for the right to vote on whether or not the mini hydropower is going to be built here or there, in Pirot, on the Old Mountain, Književec, etc. Well, we're you, we're the ones talking to them and it's my pleasure to do it. You know, I come back a long time ago from the NGO sector, and how I know how it works and what, in fact, is the basic idea in the whole story. This Ministry is very sensitive to these things and it's working on it. We'll be able to fight for it in our society that the mini hydrodes don't exist in protected goods and, of course, we'll go around the mini hydros when I estimate it should, and then I can teach you and others about it. Do you know what derivation mini hydrotherms are or don't you know? Do you know what the conditions are to do it right? It is known who gives the permission and why it gives permission in our society to do it all right, of course. The truth is that we will control it and we will be a serious stumbling block for all those who think they are disrupting the environment in our society. I also said, and not you, even months ago, that if we find a way to prevent the construction of a mini-hydrocenter, especially in protected goods, I'm willing to talk to potential investors about different modes that they can achieve their interests elsewhere. So, we didn't fall from Mars, but we are also committed to taking care of our nature and how even those centrals that got the permits are conducted on the ground. It's the key, and that, of course, we'll do it our own way where the law allows us, and we'll, you know, stick to it all the time. It's known exactly by the procedure who gets permission, what kind of permission, when energy permits are given for these dozens of mini-hydrocentrals. What kind of period is that? Ask around. I'm not the one for sure, but I'm the one who's gonna check all that out. So I'm the one who to the citizens, we're the ones who are allied to the citizens in this whole story, and no economic interest can be more important than protecting the environment and our citizens, no doubt. All this is fleeting, and governments, and parliaments, and we who are in these functions. The only thing left is life, by itself. We're going to be dealing with these questions for a long time, but we're going to be wondering in a few months or a few years where anybody's been, what who's been doing, what who's been saying, and after that and what he's been doing. I know exactly where I was before this. I know where I am now and what I'm doing. I know what I'll do when I'm done. So, I'm going to deal with this anyway, this is my life, this is my profession, and I have no intention of going down anyone's hair trying to quack criticism using it for some kind of political point. Don't do that when it comes to the environment, but if you're willing to help, I invite you to help. If you're willing to help the citizens, get information to the public, to us, and how you should do it as MPs, and we're open to it. There's no one in this country who can't be in a position to help us, because this is an open ministry, we're ready for that story, we want to work, we know what problems we're facing. Sometimes you can ask me what problems we face. Doing all that. You want to talk about junk? You want to talk about dangerous waste other than mini-bodies? We talk and work, and some things we can and don't have to talk about because we consider them part of the job. What you're doing to us is part of the job, too. I don't like it, though, I admit, because I expect support. Maybe it's an illusion I have, but I want to build an illusion, because you can't lead biology if you don't have illusions, if you don't have ideals and if you don't believe what you're doing and if you don't believe and you don't have love for your own country. Here you will have a demonstration of love for your own country, regardless of criticism. It's not always negative, necessarily, that you don't get me wrong, and it's necessary to know that the coordinate system is being installed, but don't throw us at it without doing anything and don't throw it at us that we don't do the things we have to and we want to do it. You can never target us by not even mentioning the question in the public that you mentioned, which is not in our jurisdiction, but I mentioned them. No, as a jurisdiction, because I don't have the instruments. If you define yourself as a parliament that this ministry gets jurisdiction in forests, waters, etc., everything you've said, we'd be happy to accept it. Give the initiative, and let's see what we do in all this. It is certain that we know exactly what we are doing, and it is certain that we are absolutely with citizens who care about their environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44766	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44767	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, why should parliament have an initiative? Where are your initiatives? Why don't you run some of this stuff we talked about, and you all agree with me? You can't do anything and you can't do anything. It was really so touching at one point that I wanted to cry out how wonderfully you talked about establishing the responsibility of those who were before you in power. You know who was in charge before you? Your party, you, the SPS has been in power in this country 25 since the last 27-28 years. You're looking for responsibility, Mr. Minister. Here he is in your party. Don't, please, talk to those demagogue flossules. Secondly, you have admitted that the Dvori are right, that we need one broader ministry, a ministry of resources, so say, the Dvori are right, the Dvori solution is better than the existing solution of the division of the ministries. Is it so hard to say? Say it. You said that indirectly. Say it directly. For years, we have advocated a different structure of the ministries and, of course, that natural resources and our national resources must be under unique control. You're talking about defending the country's interest right now. I'm the first to defend these interests with you, but you're sitting in a government that sells river streams, which sells agricultural land, which sells mineral wealth and you say -- someone gave our sources of clean drinking water to use. Who gave it, Mr. Minister? Was the SPS, your party, in all those governments that gave it? Now you regret supporting those governments. Say it in public – we were wrong to support a previous government. No, you would like to sit in all the governments and share nice ministerial places and have your party and personal interest, and then when the government changes, and you move to another power, a new power, then you say - she has done bad work before in which you have been. Wait, please, isn't that extremely hypocritical? That political flyover has destroyed Serbia. It's the waste you're talking about and that's environmental protection, to protect ourselves from political flyers and frauds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44768	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44769	I thank the chairman. To be honest, the government of the Republic of Serbia and as a term and physically as a term remains only a mental noun for Boško Obradovica and the political structure of Dveri. Nothing else, and it'll remain a mental noun. I don't think it's necessary to think at all for a long time that in the government, those who, in this way, are spreading demagogues and demagogy and nothing else. Did the SPS support or not support it? We know that best in the SPS. We were in that government, and we are not ashamed of being in that government, and we have contributed to that government's functioning and in every position where an SPS representative was located, we have tried to keep the government at full capacity and to decide and do what it is in the best interests of the citizens. That's why there's no single reason for the SPS to look back in shame or to express their conscience for anything she's done. We're doing it today at full capacity. What Bosko Obradović doesn't know or won't know, maybe he doesn't know, I don't know, it's obvious, because once I said he didn't connect with himself or today, because the non-stop represents contradictory statements and non-stop in a contradictory way trying to explain to the citizens something that's impossible to explain, because to a healthy man and one who has at least part of logic doesn't go into the head what's heard from Boška Obradovic today, and what's certain, it's certainly that the SPS has never done anything obstructive or destructive. The one whose hands were the main parts of the political cake, and especially the part called – finance, was certainly not in the hands of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44770	Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44771	Dear Chairman, thank you, above all, for the opportunity to conclude that a historic moment has just occurred at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when the authorised representative of the SPS acknowledged that it is proud of the participation of the SPS in the former regime and in the former government and that it is absolutely behind everything that I have done. Now I must remind the ruling majority, led by the SNS, that every day we are exposed to your attacks that the former regime has destroyed and destroyed this state and government, and now you have the recognition of your current coalition partner, the SPS, that they are proud of this period of destruction of this country. Please explain to me - how do you sit with the SPS in power which has now directly admitted that it is responsible for what you claim to be the destruction of the state during the former regime? Are we finally going to talk straight here about everything or are you guys going to continue to fake? Was she a good ex-government with an SPS, proud or bad? If she was bad, what are you holding these people out of bad government in your government today? So they're good for you even though they were part of the previous bad government. Wait, that's extreme hypocrisy. That's actually the point of that story I'm telling you here. So, the SPS is directly responsible for the bad consequences of the collapse of this society, the state, the economy, culture, identity in the past 25 years and continues to exist as a party in power despite being involved in everything that has been done in this society and the state in the last 25 years, and you are accusing someone else of doing something bad in the past, such as the Dveri who have never been in power, and in your authority is the one who publicly boasts that everything that was in the former regime was good and that they are proud of it. Throw them out of power, seek their criminal responsibility, they're the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44772	Make the end of my colleague Obradovic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44773	I understand why Bosko Obradovic, who is otherwise said to be the co-ordinator of this Gilas Union for Serbia, is to coordinate the work of all MPs who have gathered from the former regime, something bad is going on with this coordination because I see that the MP is almost gone, today so nervous and why they are so costing Alexander Vukic and SNS. Ladies and gentlemen, word has just been released that the U.S. Attorney has filed charges against Patrick Ho, otherwise Comrade Vuk Jeremic, that he was exporting weapons to Qatar and that this weapon was aided by the so-called. The Islamic state of Iraq and Syria and probably in the transaction, Vuk Jeremic, who, in a coalition with Bosko Obradovic, received the famous commission from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin of 200,000 euros. To cover the news, to cover up the fact that they were funded by white-world criminals and terrorists, then he collapsed on Alexander Vukic and the SNS. For your information, Mr. Alliance for Serbia Coordinators Aleksandar Vukic has brought down the regime of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Shanet Petrovic and all others who have ruined Serbia and with whom you are today in the coalition. So I understand why you're nervous. I understand why you're angry. It is difficult for someone to explain that you are a Ljotician today, and tomorrow, Gilasovac, that you are against the EU today, and tomorrow you are against the NATO Pact, and tomorrow you are a NATO Pact. I understand all of this, but it would be good to get information here from you as a coalition partner of Vuk Jeremic, what is this about – is it true that you were smuggling weapons to Qatar and through Qatar to the Islamic State, how much money did you get? The Vuk Jeremic received 200,000 euros, we know that. How much did Dragan Gilas get, how much did Shane Petrovic get, and how much did your coalition partners get?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44774	Bring the end. Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44775	I thank the chairman. By replacing the thesis and spin as Bosko Obradovic does, he will not convince the citizens that he can cross 2%, and God has given 1% in the elections, given how he works and what he has done so far. Again, the SPS has no reason to view the past in any way wrong. Everything that was supposed to be done was done. As it was done and as the government functioned at least from the position where SPS representatives acted, it acted in the best possible way. Speaking of responsibility, will Bosko Obradovic, in addition to what he has now expressed as a fact, bear responsibility for what his colleagues in the alliance are already called, where he is allegedly co-ordinator, do not know what he is coordinating, which is why he has been solidarity with those who call for rape, who call for lynch, who are calling for the most immoral, deluded actions that appear on social networks, and are sent to the highest officials of the Republic of Serbia? Will Mr. Obradovic say in front of the citizens – yes, I am ashamed of it or as silently as he is now, and perhaps even publicly proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44776	Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44777	Thank you, Chairman. I am a member of the Alliance for Serbia presidency and one of the ten founders of the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues. [[Employers applaud.]] I am pleased to welcome the establishment of the largest opposition bloc in Serbia in the last 15 years that will very seriously oppose your authority. It is the right thing, but it is not true that I am the co-ordinator of the MPs who belong to the Alliance for Serbia. I am doing this together with other heads of parliament groups, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Goran Ciric, and of course we will speak to the joint forces here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia against everything bad that this government is doing. Unlike Aleksandar Martinovic, I have never failed, betrayed my beliefs, ideology and programme, I have never been against the EU to be for the EU now. For 20 years, I have consistently stuck to the idea of the Serbian Dvora Movement, from the founding of the Dveri magazine to today, even in the Alliance for Serbia, where Dvori did not step down by millimeter from one point in its programme. And look at Alexander Martinovic, once a great believer in the ideology of Serbian nationalism of the SRS, and today a large euro fanatic and servant of the EU in Serbia. Now, that's a political flyover that represents a big problem here for all of us. On the other hand, as far as the SPS that gave up its first president and founder Slobodan Milosevic is concerned, it best talks about you and your policy, and here we actually have this problem that when Mr. Martinovic listed who they all won in the 2012 elections, he forgot to list the SPS you also won in the 2012 elections, because she was in the second camp, and then you moved on to you and since then you've made it up for all the bad that the SPS did in the previous period. Well, it can't be. If the former regime is bad, the SPS is bad and you're looking for their criminal responsibility for everything that's bad in the previous year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44778	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Col. Martinovic forgot to mention that we won in 2012 and you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was in the SRS and I was an MP of the SRS and it would be stupid to deny it. But I've never been in league with the Democratic Party nor will I be and I'm very, very proud of it. And as for whether or not you are the co-ordinator of the Union for Serbia MPs, here I have today's "Policy" which states your statement - the Alliance for Serbia Presidency, it is Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic, Dusan Petrovic, etc., the Alliance for Serbia Presidency, whose member I am and as one of the founders of the Alliance on behalf of the Dveri, has empowered me to launch the coordination of all parliamentary groups belonging to the Alliance for Serbia. In addition to Dveri's parliamentary group, there are also the Democratic Party's parliamentary group led by Goran Ciric and Serbia's parliamentary group, led by Sanda Raskovic Ivic, otherwise a member of the Vuk Jeremic party. The three of us will negotiate and coordinate joint work as was the case of a pension law, etc., etc. So, Mr. Coordinator, you didn't seem to be doing a very good job of yours, because it seems to me that few MPs are present in the O.R., there are few who support you. And you are further disturbed by the fact that the case of Vuk Jeremic has now begun to deal with the U.S. Attorney General's Office. You said in your time that we are lying and telling the truth, here's what the D.A. found was that a great friend and friend and business partner of Vuk Jeremic, your coalition partner, Patrick Ho, had an illegal trade with Qatar, and in that transaction, Vuk Jeremic, which our people would say is good for $200,000. I don't know how good you are, how good Gilas is, how good those from the Democratic Party are. But anyway, your fingers are in that jam. You were caught stealing so you'd better deal with it than you're dealing with a SNS that won the 2012 elections, but all of you together who are in the coalition today. Don't ever forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44780	I thank my colleague Martinovic. You have no right to a replica. He was just quoting what you said in the paper. Or maybe you've been mistranslated by the press. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44781	Chairman, because of your conduct now and before this discussion, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Rule 100. If you want to discuss it, let someone else preside, and you go down to the benches and break down with the Messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44782	I was helping your boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44783	I understand the anxiety and fear of the alliance, but you don't have to help from the pay phone, too, allowing direct address to the MPs. The fact that you from the presidency must help the lack of arguments, only shows citizens how afraid you are of the Alliance for Serbia, the Alliance for the Rescue of Serbia and the hope for Serbia's citizens that this monster will eventually stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44784	Let me answer something for you. Since the injury of the 100th is not at all afraid of the Alliance for Serbia, nor am I from this place where I am sitting right now, I believe no MP in this room, we have reason to be afraid. As a man who deals with politics, I am in favour that if someone is expressing serious doubt about the legitimacy of the government, we should go to the elections. Only my experience in the past six years is that some have sought elections, and they have prayed to God that they don't happen and that every time they win the election, they lose. Do you want the Parliament to declare in the voting day that you are referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Now you too by the Rules of Procedure. Here's Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44785	Comrade Chairman, you've injured a member of 200... 27. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which makes it clear to you that you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and I, according to this Rules of Procedure, had the right to reply, to the presentation of the president of the SNS parliamentary group, because on several occasions I was called by name and last name and by the name of the parliamentary group to whom I belong, even assigned some other duties of the coordinators of some other political organisations, and I am a member of the Alliance for Serbia Presidency and I am not running to this end. On the contrary, I believe that the Alliance for Serbia is the largest opposition bloc formed in the last 15 years on the Serbian political scene and represents a serious alternative to this government. So you've had to give me the right to reply on more ground, because it's simply not realistic that only representatives of the ruling majority present certain accusations, slanders, fictions, attacks on us from the opposition, and we don't have the right to answer. So far, you've been giving you a very correct right to replication and the right to suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I thanked you on several occasions for that, because I think it was very much in the spirit of democracy, tolerance and parliamentaryism, so please just keep it that way, because there's no reason to raise any tension. This is a normal debate. Completely in the spirit of a normal parliamentary debate between the government and the opposition and I think we should continue. You may not like it in that sense that you created a large opposition bloc that can seriously oppose you, which represents a great power for Serbia and the hope of opposition-oriented voters that political change can take place, but that's normal. Also, if the problem is the former regime, please finally prosecute the SPS and its representatives from the former regime to finally figure out who destroyed this country. As for the number of MPs in the hall and quorum, I will remind you that yesterday you seem to have missed the quorum so that you can set the agenda for the National Assembly, therefore, do not worry about us, take care of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44786	Comrade Obradovic, you have advertised, or pointed to a violation of Article 227. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which puts it this way - the search for the response to interpretation must end at the session at which it was started. Interpletion submitted can be withdrawn until the vote is met with an answer to the impediment. The issue which has been the subject of the interpretation cannot be discussed again before the 90-day term of the vote expires. Otherwise, to be able to use the right of Article 227. Rules of Procedure, you must comply with the provisions of Article 220. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says - at least 50 MPs can interpret the work of a government or a single member of the Government. You also do not meet that condition, so I believe that I have not violated any of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: Yes 27.) What? (Bosko Obradovic: Yes 27.) You're 227. It's in the stenographic notes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44787	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I call for a violation of article 27. Yes, we're very nervous, here we are shaking because we're afraid of the Alliance for Serbia, whose new president is it, imagine Janko Veselinovic. The stronger political figures on Serbia's political scene in the last 30 years were probably gone and here we were caught by the great panic and fear of Janko Veselinovic, who will beat us convincingly, along with Bosko Obradovic, Dilas, Jeremic, Tadic, Shanet Petrovic and all the other thieves and secics who have ruined this country. I just want to remind the citizens of Serbia how boring Bosko Obradovic is. When the government of Ana Brnabic was formed, he said that Vukic, Nikolic, Vulin and Dacic were traitors and in the new government, there are at least two ministers who are Masons. I will now read to you only part of the correspondence and I would like to thank my colleague Marijan Rističević, who kindly granted me these sources, which show that the Parliament of the Dveri Movement, Marija Janjušević, is a masseuse. He says this - most important, it says Brankica in 2015, May 18, the most important great master, dear sisters and senior officers, I am pleased to announce that I am in a position to place a small sword for the pinning of the candidate, whose photograph I am delivering in addition to. With regard to association with the Romanian sisterhood, I am available Friday night, and I can arrive at Saturday's work around 4:30. Good luck, Brankica. Well, then let Nena Popovic. And when did he get his paws together? Well, I guess they're pricking each other. I don't know what these mass rituals look like. I'm not a Mason.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44788	Comrade Martinovic, please bring the end. Get it over with with.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44789	Here, just let me, Mr. Arsic, it's an interesting topic for these great angry men and antimassones. It says Nena Popović Šević – the most important great master, dear sisters, senior officers, in the work of preparing candidates for work, and I notice that it is added to the list, missing the rope, but I can make sure I get it for the coming Saturday. The same goes for the flashlights I've used so far instead of candles, for safety reasons. I remind myself that I am at my disposal, a respected sisterhood, all day on Saturday, in the event of any logistical support. Dear big sister, dear sisters, I'd like to inform you that I'm lucky to have all the equipment and I'm asking you to let me know if there are any changes to the music work. I'm very sorry I can't help you get the necessary equipment, because unfortunately, I work every day until 9:00. If you need any help, please call me tomorrow. Well, then let Natasa Pavlovic say – no, dear, you are not. We'll make a combination for you. You're not worried, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44790	I thank my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44791	So, these are these great Latvians who fight against... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44792	In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? My colleague Milena Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44793	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us draft laws, but also agreements in the field of the environment as part of the process that the Republic of Serbia is conducting... People's MPs speak out loud. Please, if you can calm the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44794	I ask the People's MPs not to receive each other, to listen to fellow Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44795	Thank you. We have before us proposals for legislation, but also agreements in the field of environmental protection as part of the process that we are conducting and passing on the path of achieving standards in the field of environmental quality, sustainable development, as well as the protection of the plant and animal world. In the case of proposed amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, Article 90b provides for the conditions under which the resources of the Green Fund are allocated to beneficiaries of the funds in the preparation of projects in the field of environmental protection and regulation and in this provision it is contained that the public competition of the ministry is being called for for these purposes. There is only one exception in which cases this procedure is avoided and this is an emergency procedure, for some intervention measures, or for procedures where something urgent is to be done, to re-cultivate or re-scheduled land. The proposed amendments to the laws that are before us today prescribe another exception to this provision and it refers to the preparation of documentation to be accessed by EU pre-accession funds for the same projects in the area of quality and improvement of environmental quality. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an act laying down criteria for the allocation of these funds and, in fact, one methodology for selecting and prioritising projects and establishing one list of priority projects of this purpose, while the criteria for the allocation of the Green Fund's resources are not different in many ways from this methodology, it turns out that two of the same procedures are being explored for the same projects, doubles work and wastes time. These proposed amendments to the law overcome this discrepancies of regulatory law and allow for easier access to these funds. The process of Serbia's EU accession, of course, carries a number of challenges and specifically concerns the fulfilment of standards in the field of environmental protection, and it is necessary to provide a stable source of funding for such infrastructure projects, as it is necessary for Serbia to participate in the preparation with certain resources, in some of the unforeseen costs related to the preparation of the documentation. That is exactly what this is about, a stable and sustainable financing system, but also in one predictability and continuity in using these funds that will be available to us. Of course, it is about more efficient planning to use the Green Fund for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of the environment. The fact is that in the coming period, we are expected to have a large amount of work, and this job mainly refers to training administrative capacities, preparing project documentation, providing financial structure, but also empowering inspections so that they can effectively oversee this area. This topic is an unequivocal priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is evident, because a separate ministry that deals with this particular topic is being formed, protecting the environment, but this topic is also being imposed as a priority in the work of local self-government and it is necessary to ensure this good coordination, detection, localisation of the problem, but also making projects so that we can effectively address these problems. Environmental protection is one of the EU's basic flows, and it is clear why they are rigorous and demanding in this regard. The draft negotiating position, which Serbia has prepared, contains specific implementation plans, which actually predict how we will solve problems, within which deadlines and how we will provide financial construction, and it is very important that we be realistic in these estimates that we are preparing. Our goals are to improve and improve the quality of the environment, but also to train the current problems, which we encounter, to solve. The estimates that for this job, I mean those topics that are most important, i.e. waste management and wastewater processing, will take about six and a half billion euros. What is crucial and much more important is that we are not doing this because of pre-accession negotiations, nor because of the EU, nor Brussels. We are doing this because of us, we are doing this because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we need it and because we want to think in one responsible way about what kind of environment, in what state we leave it for generations to come, and how and how to improve the health of our citizens. The harmonisation of our legislation with EU liquids concerns the introduction of the best available technologies and the achievement of the permitted limit values and emissions, and the way in which the negotiations are negotiated is precisely the way in which these standards can be reached and with what means. The goal, of course, is to set realistic deadlines, to avoid what some countries have in their negotiations, which are penalties, penalty or maybe even closure of some companies that do not meet these standards, because in fact, there is an accent here that is placed on bringing the economy into line with one of the new conditions imposed by the EU, which imposes the quality of the environment. What Serbia is trying to do is, of course, a circular economy, and that's what we're tasked with in the future, so re-use of material, treatment of waste water, the use of waste from dumps, so to create raw materials from something that is unnecessary and to save it, I didn't mention ash from thermal power plants, to save our resources that are limited, but also to create space for new investments and create additional value. In this way, we will protect the environment, but it is necessary for these problems to engage in the profession, the word of science, and to establish a good collaboration between science and economy in order to find an optimal solution and solve this problem. We are, of course, talking about industrial waste which is a legacy from different periods of transition to restructuring firms in bankruptcy, which generated this waste in the previous period. We don't have to solve everything by exporting it. Our experts and how they have enough knowledge to come up with solutions. We have already discussed some suggestions, when it comes to galvanic waste, where our scientists, the prominent scientists from the Vinch Institute, are able to come up with a method where the processing of galvanic waste gets water and a commercial product, which is an ideal solution and does not require too much resources, so that and how we can approach these problems in the best possible way, solve and generate generic waste and the one that comes into production processes and simply move forward in these processes. Protecting the environment is never an expense, it's never an expense. It's an investment in our future and the creation of new investments. Chapter 27 is demanding, requires a lot of work, time and resources, but we really have to deal with the wastewater processing and separation system, the construction of a separation and recycling plant and invest in these plants. For now, we are processing only 5-10% of waste water, but it is important to negotiate the most qualitative long-term solutions and create new resources and a new source of income. In this process, we must look to countries that are ahead, which are leaders in this area, listen to their experiences, on the one hand, to avoid mistakes that we can potentially make, and on the other hand, to make the most of the resources available to us and to pre-accession funds. It is estimated that more than 11 billion euros will be needed to comply with legislation in the field of the environment and resources can be provided in one part through pre-accession funds, in one part through the Green Fund and through other lines of the Republic of Serbia's budgetary system. We lack project documentation, that is certain, to work on, but some documentation needs to be updated and it will be, we assume, a major challenge in the next period. When it comes to the Green Fund, through this law we create conditions for participation in projects to ensure a stable way of financing activities. So our priority is to preserve the environment for generations to come, to guarantee in this way better human health, the competitiveness of the economy, the preservation of resources and the global fight against climate change, which is evident and happening. Very important sectors have been engaged in the Ministry of Environment. One refers to strategic planning, the other to wastewater management, and this will be the accent when it comes to the Ministry's work in the future, with the appropriate application of the legislation and the principle that the polluter pays, surely we can deal with these problems. What is the European Union's accent is preventive action, timely thinking and pre-warning the consequences, and we really need to start changing our awareness that we are no longer acting when the problem is already happening, but to think in time and to find the best solutions and to warn potential dangers. When we talk about the second amendment of this law, here is a legal basis for the creation of a sublegal act that will define the conditions of a sealed environment for IPARD users. When it comes to IPARD funds, we have about 160 million pre-accession funds that are designed to achieve quality in the environment and what users will have as their obligation is to submit proof that they have met standards in this area and refers to legal, natural persons dealing with production, but also processing in the food industry and these funds will be open to getting new equipment. Of course, here I'm talking about farmers, entrepreneurs, cooperatives or companies dealing with these areas. When it comes to other proposals that are on the agenda today, we have before us the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly an indication that countries have become aware of the importance of this topic and are ready to cooperate in the best interests of their citizens, that there is goodwill and willingness to protect our environment. Significant topics will be launched here, such as protecting water and air quality, waste management, communication between economic operators, exchange of knowledge and exchange of experiences, so that in any case support for this agreement. Also, the Act on the Conservation of African-Euro-Asian Migration Birds of Water Stations is an important agreement for Serbia, since through our country of 125 migratory birds, as many as 100 species are protected and we are truly happy, because even in Europe, there are not too many of these protected habitats, and Serbia currently has 10. There are still procedures to protect certain areas and it is important to do both the campaign and educate people about the value of these species, and to prevent them from being destroyed. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Transport under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development. It is also important for Serbia to participate, in all regions we have the capacity to be both a leader and a seriously taken partner in this business. When it comes to protecting the population of bats, I must point out that this proposal has support and approval and the non-governmental sector, when it comes to this area. It is important to protect this species because they are an indicator of environmental conditions. Since they play a very important role in regulating harmful insects, it is important that we preserve this part of biodiversity and run a campaign on this subject. Proposal for a law on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018, a subject which has caused a lot of controversy. I would just read that, at the initiative of the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Health launched a procedure for the revision of the Financial Plan for the 2018 RFZO on 11 September. As recommended by the DRI, the State Audit Institutions, at the adoption of the final account for 2017, planned and transferred neutral funds on 31 December and increased the funding of the fund of three billion and 600 million dinars. Part of that fund is dedicated to the treatment of individuals who have suffered from rare diseases and this is a very important topic because two billion dinars have been identified for this purpose this year. I would just read one of the statistics relating to the period from 2012 to today, that in 2012, this Fund for the Treatment of Persons with Rare Diseases was established, and then 130 million dinars were identified and eight patients were referred to abroad in 2013 – 130 million, 2014 – 260 million, 2015 – 335 million, 2016 – 600 million, 2017 – a billion and 100 million and 2018 – two billion and about 200 patients have been referred to treatment so far. So every year there is an increasing amount for this purpose. In addition, a college centre was formed within the Ministry of Health, which is available to parents who face such difficult news and are available to help prepare documentation, in consultation with doctors, in order to find the best treatment model for these patients, whether it is the arrival of doctors from abroad or sending patients to treatment abroad, mainly an optimal treatment method will be determined with the consultation of the profession of a consular opinion. This is a system solution that the state has formed and our patients have been given the opportunity to treat the cost of the state and this is certainly a topic on which the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will work even more actively in the coming period. The health ministry also improves capacities in our country by building new clinical centres, reconstructing existing, purchasing and modernising equipment, but also by sending our experts to specialisation and training to respond better to the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Taking into account all of the above, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44796	Thank you, colleague Turk. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. Thank you. We can proceed according to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go, colleague Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44797	Thank you very much. Mr. Trivan, there is no justice for 52 types of bats, there is no justice for 125 species of protected birds, maybe there is only justice for this sustainable transport, because our corridors will never be finished, Carpatha, because there is no justice for natural resources. First, we all said that, it would be very important for all natural resources to be united, because there is no water protection until it is united with other natural resources in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Then, there is no protection of natural resources if they are treated as goods from which the greatest benefit should be derived within the shortest period of time, indeed for a long time. There is no quality protection of the environment, without a system solution, and if we are a serious state, serious financial resources are needed. And, as always happens when we get the money, we come up with a reason why we won't support this law. We will not support it because it is temporary, we will not support it because it represents a transitional solution, and with us practice has shown that transitional, temporary solutions usually become permanent solutions, and we advocate a serious system solution, without which environmental protection cannot be quality. The 2018 budget is the indicator of the position of a ministry in the chain of government. I'm sorry to have to say with 0.4% environmental, it turns out that the environment is very little to us, and it should be the opposite. So, I don't want to deal with the environment in general right now, that's not the point. It's now very in, and it's going to be a car, I really think the Law on the Protection of the Environment is a fundamental law, such as education roof law, this is fundamental law, and it requires serious treatment. What I want to do is finance, because without a financial structure, there is no fulfillment of the obligations of Chapter 27. In the process of achieving European standards in the protection of the environment, I don't think we lack knowledge, scientific or professional capacity, but I certainly lack financial support and the necessary building of administrative capacities, I have not seen any shift so far. In front of the European Commission, as far as I know, we were obliged to put forward a strategic plan to finance the environment, for a period of several years, to show that, as a country, we are serious and to understand the value of investing in this area, to improve the situation. However, out of over 10 billion dedicated funds collected annually, from environmental taxis and fees, the environment received only half the amount. So it can't be a serious relationship to the environment. You said environmental protection, civilization fluid. So we're not a civilized state, if our environment is 0.4% of our last-place budget. Indeed, this authority cannot allow itself, if it considers itself to be a serious government. What gets me the most around here, so let's not say it's annoying, it's ax, I don't trust, it's that I don't see any communication between the ministries. When it comes to the environment, I think that, first of all, there should be exceptional communication and co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, they have to give an indicative funding plan, because if we don't anticipate all the costs, we're getting into a big problem, you know better than I do. I'm declarative co-operation with the European Integration Ministry, I don't see the right way to co-operate. Already, with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, I think absolute co-operation is impossible, especially what they send to you on the opinion of the law, in which they demand that, under Article 145, the facilities be reconstructed, adapted and renovated within the borders of the national park and objects within the boundaries of protected natural goods, of exceptional importance, be transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government units. I hope that you, as a serious minister and a serious ministry, cannot give consent to this new draft law, the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law of Spatial Planning. So that would be what I most resent. So I don't object specifically to you, I don't object to the co-operation between the ministries when it comes to the environment. I don't want to open other topics now, but when the environmental issue is the environment, so the Ministry of Finance doesn't come to meetings and I was present for the negotiating position, to open Chapter 27. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So they simply avoid creating a serious financial structure and seriously joining the protection of the environment. Please convince me I'm wrong. That's what I'd like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44798	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Let's move on, the word is Maria Yevdzic. She's not present. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44799	Thank you. In short, in this part, when MPs share their time to discuss what people who look at us will remember from these three days about changes in the field of protection or changes in the treatment of rare diseases in children. They'll remember verbal violence, the garbage of verbal violence. I don't know if it's a rare disease, but we're voluntarily infected with it and a lot of the verbal violence that we love to cultivate. You probably expect me to find out in any way that there is good verbal violence. It doesn't exist. There's no good verbal violence. There is no violent dictionary who would use someone with whom I would always drink coffee, and if I said so, well, that's a good verbal violence for you. And, just as I consider the unworthy functions of the minister to be dealing here with a trust run by Sergei Trifunovic, talking about how criminal he is, at the same time paying the sum of money into that fund, so I find it unworthy that the slandering Dragan Shormaz or that unworthy of any MP treats the ministers Trivan and Loncar, I am not talking about verbal junk that is being sold here about people who are not present in the hall. It's the state of things. So what's going to be in the media, about IPARD, about everything that needs to be brought to some good faces, entrepreneurs, cooperatives. What's going to be in the media about everything that's invested in a dedicated fund that's otherwise also funded from gambling, to open their eyes to marginal groups for a small number of people in our society, it'll all be covered by juicy news of how it enjoys verbal violence disqualification of people, not laws, not procedures and deeds, people, mocking people. That's what I see in these three days and not just in these three days, but maybe in these three days it's clearer because it's about policies that would involve at least a little voluntary giving up this will to pollute public space with verbal garbage. It's about protecting the environment, the EU's money that needs someone around Serbia to facilitate what they can't do without the money they should give him at least cheaper than in banks. So, to be informed how to get these couples because they are not easy to reach or the topic that, after many years, the dedicated fund for treating children has been increased, however, we are not giving up. Simply not expecting anyone's reaction, or anyone's acceptance or opposition, I want to share with you the damage that we've all done together in the space that serves to get people in Serbia information, not garbage. That joy over the fact that we call it politics is that it has knowledge, as it doesn't, and that it has the skills of communication, as it doesn't, it would all create shame together because it's causing damage to those that we all sit together on the words. There is no protection of the environment, the part that deals with verbal brownness but there is, I hope ears are offered that it is never too late to give up voluntary pleasure in sneezing and mocking people, in slandering people who are not here, in a rude relationship with ministers, and that we really try to do a job for which we are paid out of the budget, which is that people who are watching us hear, learn, be informed about IPARD, protect water habitats, transport in Karpatima, an agreement with Croatia and a fund that is now two billion, and will be spent on help, to treat everyone with rare diseases. As I'd like not to spend a single penny from that fund, because that would mean that there are no sick people, so I'd like to sometimes testify about our mutual desire to inform people about what's going on here, not that we're sneezing over slander, uglyness and debauchery of each other, and we're calling it politics. It's a good thing you're all sitting down, 'cause it's got nothing to do with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44800	Thank you, colleague Komic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44801	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, of course, support all the laws. People laugh at the bat law, not knowing that every bat in the night catches a thousand insects. This is very important to us in agriculture, because it reduces the use of insecticides and other plant protection products, which gives us healthier food. As regards money for children, I must say that as a member of the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, we have since 2012, with 45 treated children abroad, 2016-2017, reached 600. Thus, the average treatment costs 8000 euros per child and it is a wonder that in these foundations it costs 10 and 20 times more. That is why I advocate, when the state has already given private foundations 250 000 euros, to examine in detail the use and use of funds, which are still public, whether they were sent by the government or texted by citizens. There's nothing wrong with that. It is necessary to examine until the last moment whether it is only the people who are paying, and whether this humanity is charged by those who are involved in the collection of these funds. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I want to know why the "Monbat" in India was built, a factory for recycling lead batteries, on the water supply of Indji? I haven't gotten that answer yet from the ministry. As far as environmental protection is concerned, everyone does so in their own way. Here, let's say, there's a ritual of environmental protection by burning the cross. This is Borko Stefanovic, who protects the environment by burning the cross next to it and singing and playing. So, no lies-no fraud. I hope our viewers can see that. No wonder he does this, but there are other organizations that Martinović spoke of, which are being fought by the protection of the environment, by performing strange actions in the temple, so they say they need: skull, working carpet, gilded corner and sixer, dreto, hammer, first-degree bench, black table coverings, black widow's bag, so they need candles, candles, candlelight bells, claws, raw stone, cardboard, little sword for the candidate and sword for the castle. So, it's a very strange way of dealing with certain environmental organisations, and I believe that the clergy dealing with politics and supporting such political organizations that are dealing in such a strange way with the protection of the environment, will give up supporting Dragan Gilas and his strange alliance that looks like a recycled mass to me. So every household should have a waste basket, so the Assembly should have a basket for political waste, which currently represents, I don't know who the coordinator is, but they are currently represented by this Redbeard Alibaba with 10 robbers inside. So I don't think that's the way we're going to deal with environmental protection. As far as e-mails are concerned, my advice to my fellow MP is to remove the maid of honor as quickly as possible, because she is very destructive to the Orthodox church organization, so as not to be able to read the material and correspondence obtained from his deputies in full, part by piece, and that is far more disgusting than these skulls and everything else I've read, in which way they deal with protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44802	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word has a folk letter from Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44803	The text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act provides information that amendments to the Law are necessary in order to enable the use of the Green Fund to co-finance projects financed from pre-accession funds of the European Union, in order to ensure the sustainability and stability of projects in the field of environmental protection. It is, therefore, the funds from IPARD funds, and the funds defined by 2020 are 160m euros. And now, we should believe that the European Union is ready to finance our farmers with 160m euros to increase the level of environmental protection. The fact is that EU companies in the EU countries themselves take great care of all environmental values, and use a number of ecological filters and make sure that they do not release toxic materials in the flow of water, however, the same companies when they operate in Serbia often operate below each ecological standard. Recently, we had the opportunity to inform ourselves of a major environmental scandal caused by a Spanish company that was operating in Serbia and whose directors for Serbia were arrested for burying toxic and carcinogenic waste that was directly soaked in the country. It is, therefore, a combination of benzene, naphtha and maguta, and it is a dangerous substance that threatens human health and nature. The investigative authorities have found that over the poison, the soil has been planted, and over the soil, two huge intestines have been found that have been directly exposed to the earth by toxins. Unfortunately, this was not only the case in Kikinda, but it was happening across Serbia, where the company or companies that were in some way related to it operated. So, the company also had its own branch in Lapovo, whose dump was also stockpiled with waste. “Vinche” scientists analyzed these waste materials and found that, fortunately, it was not nuclear waste, but it was certainly chemical waste that was extremely dangerous to human health. Then, more than 25 tonnes of hazardous waste buried in the country was found in the area of Obrenovac and hundreds of barrels of carcinogenic poison were found again in the area of Obrenovac. More than 1,000 tonnes of hazardous and toxic waste was then discovered in Novi Sad in January of this year, in order to rediscover more than 100 tonnes of carcinogenic matter owned by EKO-21 in March of this year by the Spanish company FCC Eco. The same happened in Apatino and again in Obrenovac in May this year in the village of Vukicevic. In addition, we believe that this company is not the only one operating below every standard and that, unfortunately, more cases like this will be revealed, but this is not the worst example of pollution. So Serbia is primarily polluted because of the bombing by EU member states and the NATO Pact. We have official data that about three and a half thousand people have been killed in 78 days of bombing, but we have no record of how many people in Serbia have suffered from the result of the bombing, namely cancer caused by poor uranium. Also, it has not been officially established yet how many missiles with poor uranium were extradited above Serbia. NATO has admitted to handing over 31,000 missiles with impoverished uranium. According to the Yugoslav Army, the number of 50,000 missiles is at stake, while according to Russian sources, their number is as high as 90,000. As many as there were, our country has been poisoned forever, because the official half-life of the poor uranium is 4.5 billion years. It has been scientifically proven that the poored uranium is cancerous and the fact is that Serbia is facing an epidemic of malignant diseases. When we were bombarded with poor uranium, oncologists warned that the first effects on human health would be felt between five and 10 years after the bombing, which is unfortunately happening. In central Serbia, the increase in cancer-diseased men is 21% compared to the pre-bombing period, while the number is slightly lower in women and is 16%. Men usually suffer from lung cancer, colon, prostate, bladder, stomach and pancreas, while women suffer from lung cancer, uterus, breast tumor, etc. However, there are still no official studies that would link the poored uranium to the increase in the number of patients and the number of cancer patients, is explained by aging and is explained by better diagnostics. Unfortunately, there were also people who appeared publicly claiming that poor uranium was not harmful to the health of Serbian citizens. That is, to say, Jelena Milic and these NATO lobbyists, but we have not yet heard the official stance of the Serbian government on the impoverished uranium and how much it is or is not harmful to the citizens of Serbia and what will be done about it. It has not yet been established how much material damage SRJ suffered since the 1999 bombing. The estimates range between $29.6 billion, which was announced immediately after the aggression by alleged experts from G17 Plus, and the right figure is moving somewhere around $100 billion, according to the government at the time. The question arises, will we ever be compensated for material damage and what happens to the immaterial damage done to Serbian citizens by bombing and can even the immaterial damage that counts for tens of thousands of lives be calculated and compensated? In addition to the impoverished uranium, Serbian citizens have suffered damage from other dangerous compounds. The risk of chemical pollution, especially propylene, as fluid, is well ignored, means in liquid state and incinerated. The major danger to human health and ecosystems was the bombing of transformers using synthetic transformer oil, i.e. pyrene, for cooling. It's a substance that stays in the country and in the water for a very long time, because nature has no possibility of disposing of this substance. During NATO bombings, a large number of industrial objects have been rocketed and destroyed, from which toxic and dangerous substances have penetrated the environment in large quantities and with large, i.e. inconspicuous environmental damage. It all started on April 23rd 1999, when Belgrade's 3rd and Belgrade 9 trafo stations were shot, burning large amounts of trafo-oil, and a large amount of that oil was also poured into the land. The burned transformers' oils were largely unknown to members of the SRJ fire departments at the time, since the fires on the pirate transformers before NATO aggression were extremely rare or not. After that, all the compounds created by the combustion of the propylene are toxic and carcinogenic, especially toxic dioxins that were released during the chemical tank fires at enormous concentrations. Dioxins are substances containing chlorine, carbon, oxygen and hydrogen and tribenzyl groups. In fact, these are the most toxic compounds that occur as unwanted by-products during chemical processes and are poorly dissolved in water, but are therefore extremely well dissolved in oils and fats, so that they enter the food chain. Another chemically dangerous situation is the bombing of Azotara, which produced ammonia, azotic acid and mineral fertilisers. During the bombing, 328 tonnes of mules were destroyed, burned 25 tonnes, and remained spilled into local land, while about 200 tonnes of ammonia poured into the wastewater canal. We had a similar situation in Novi Sad when the oil refinery was hit. It is also when the aim of the "Coluber" Termopower plant is damaged when electricity lines, electrical pillars and transformers are damaged, and the trafo-oil has spread around the environment. It happened similarly in Prahovo and Bor where the trafo station "Electroastok" was bombed. Also, in the bombing, Zastava cars came into a similar situation and electric transformers burned in Belgrade, Bezanjska Kosa, Lestani, and a large amount of pyrenas were poured into the Topcider River during NATO bombing. Given that the invention lobby in Serbia prevents any debate on this issue, we from the SRS are wondering whether you, as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will seek compensation for this pollution and it is very important to tell the citizens of Serbia that these 160 million that are now identified in IPARD funds for financing environmental protection are nothing compared to what the same EU has done to us, together with the United States, and thus caused permanent pollution, dangerously for the lives of Serbian citizens. As far as the second topic is concerned, it is this Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, also on protection in the area of environmental co-operation. We in the SRS represent the view that all diplomatic relations should be interrupted with the Republic of Croatia, as long as the occupation of the Republika Srpska Krajina takes place and that no agreements should be signed, nor agreements in the field of environmental protection. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, they are unable to respect even much more important agreements and much more important rights, and it is the right to life and the right to private property. We cannot forget the fact that more than 250,000 Serbs were expelled from Croatia just two decades ago in the Crime Action, and that 2,670 Serbs, 24,752 Serbian houses, 13,000 private buildings, 182 cooperative homes, 56 health stations, 78 churches, 29 museums, 181 cemetery, etc. In the right days after the war, 70 returnees were killed with cold and firearms. In 20 years, only 20,000 Serbs returned, with a wave of older people, and only about three thousand Serb houses were restored. Croatia is today in violation of the Return Agreement on Usurped Houses and Apartments, and the value of registered private assets remaining behind the refugees is estimated at around 30 billion euros, while the value of Serbian companies and banks' assets is estimated at around 35 billion euros, which has been kidnapped by the adoption of the Law in Croatia on the availability of state property. Also, we have a situation that Vojislav Seselj was already talking about, that Croatia is still standing for the Serbian territory today. It is about border space, the Charengrad Ada, and if we were in a situation, Croatians would certainly like to expand their territory to Srem. Accordingly, we believe that any co-operation with the Croats should be suspended and this agreement should not be reached. Unfortunately, the fact is that today neither these bats nor these birds in the water areas are the problem is that you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia seem both blind and deaf to these problems or have decided to go beyond all that you have plotted on your way to the EU. We are convinced that we will never enter the EU and that, accordingly, we should pass laws that are applicable here, which correspond to our citizens and that are tailored to our needs, and not according to the EU dictatorship, because so far we have had the opportunity to see that such laws have not brought us anything good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44804	Thank you, colleague Belacic. The word has a folk MP named Milena Corilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44805	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I do not want to take too much time to discuss this area that is hardly likely to cause great ideological differences between MPs. I don't think there's anyone who, for the same reason, could object to the adoption of these several international agreements on environmental protection. If this protection is really wanted to have a real effect, it does not have political state borders, but rather, more countries to which this particular problem is concerned must work jointly and coordinatedly. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, they are in their form very briefly and refer to the requirement to respect the conditions for the protection of the environment. If incentives are used from European IPARD funds and use the possibility of funding from the budget so-called budget. The Green Fund is used to co-finance certain environmental protection projects, good results can be expected. The proposed provisions in the proposed law on changes and additions to environmental protection are essentially without prejudice. Their adoption will allow for easier and faster implementation of these projects in the field of environmental protection. I think that's exactly what we need. The fact is, there are a lot of environmental problems in our space that not only threaten the plant and animal world, but also our citizens directly. Let us remind ourselves that we were unpleasantly surprised when, some time ago, we learned information from the media about buried hidden barrels of dangerous matter. It is certainly important to praise the efforts made by the Ministry of Environmental Protection to detect and take all the steps to bring them down, but it is, unfortunately, only the tip of the iceberg, because there are far more dangerous problems that are even visible to everyone. For example, almost many are familiar with the case of the former Viskoza Chemical Industry in Loznica. I don't want to go into the debate here who's responsible for why this former giant with 12,000 employees has been totally ruined, nor is this the topic of today's discussion. What I believe to me, and I believe to all the citizens of that neighborhood, is completely incomprehensible that these abandoned facilities are not being taken care of. It's an impression, despite the record of what's still out there from dangerous matter, that it's all exposed to a bit of carelessness and the tooth of time. On several occasions, for this or that reason, various accidents occurred in that former factory, as human lives were threatened. Only with luck and an effective response from the fire department did they turn into real environmental disasters, which doesn't mean that something like that isn't possible in the future. It is true that the town of Loznica was responsible, safe and timely for all situations related to the removal of dangerous material and reported all responsible institutions, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection. But it's not just Loznica, because we still have such big problems with abandoned or completely abandoned chemical factories and their parts from Šapac to Prahova and from Panchev to Kruševec. The pensioner's generation has created many factories in chemical and other industries, which today unfortunately do not exist. We ask younger generations, labourable, to make efforts and to resuscitate, or remove the remains of these factories, so as not to endanger the environment and build new ones. The adoption of these amendments and additions opens up the possibility of more efficient spending of money in protecting the environment. I would like to appeal to both the Ministry and the local community to start working together to solve these problems. In fact, where this has not been done so far, concrete plans and projects need to be made for the recovery of potential environmental bombs. In that sense, funds should be provided at the level of the locals and the Republic for their realisation. Our citizens don't care who's in charge, whether it's the Republic, the City, a company or a bankruptcy judge and administrators, but only want for themselves and their descendants a healthy environment. I think these are very important issues that need to be kept working. The PUPS parliamentary group, as the co-worker has already said, will certainly support the adoption of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44806	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not there. (Alexander Martinovic: He is still asleep.) You've got to do it after two... What do we do? It's up to us to follow procedure, to call. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44808	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief in the discussion because we have heard all the most important reasons why we should adopt these proposed solutions from both the minister and the authorised representative of SNS Milena Turk. We have heard all of the positive effects that will change and supplement this bill, so the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the protection of the environment, produce, all the benefits that citizens will have from these draft laws and agreements. I can point out once again the importance of this topic and the need to raise environmental protection high on the priority scale of all of us, in line with world trends, and I would like to praise this opportunity to praise all of those activities of the Serbian government, as well as the efforts they are making in that direction. I think it's a good opportunity to remind the public that some experts were worried about protecting the environment when they were in power, and today they're giving us some lessons. You must remember that Dulic and the famous "Let's Clean Serbia" action. A lot of money was spent, and the results were nothing. They were only able to clear Serbia's budget. So they cleaned Serbia's badge under the cloak of some kind of action aimed at only marketing and propaganda. It was the official of a party that is now part of the Alliance for Serbia, which is co-ordinated by a certain Gilas assaulter, and I only mention Gilas because he sits and follows closely and counts how many times we mention him in the National Assembly, so here he was sent by someone today. I will remind the public that it was the ministry that then led Oliver Dulic, the party's prominent official, damaged Serbia by 600,000 euros. So, no less than 600,000 euros. On this occasion, I would like to read a statement from the Public Finance Supervisory Coalition, about what it looked like. The decision by the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection to suspend the action "Let's Clean Serbia" is the right opportunity to review its effects, costs, results and consequences, but also the severe financial abuses of the recent environment minister and spatial planning and its closest associates that have followed this controversial action since the beginning. Twenty-fivem euros cost citizens of Serbia the quasi-ecological action "Let's Clean Serbia" between 2009 and 2012. The action whose environmental effects are insignificant, and public finances have been executed by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in co-operation with the Environmental Protection Fund. For the implementation of this action, which in a significant part, in its essence, classical corruption work, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning received a billion and 820 million dinars, i.e. 73.24% of total funds. We remind you that from 2009 to 2012, the resolution minister was Oliver Dulic, who was at the same time the chairman of the Management Board of the Environmental Protection Fund. The Environment Fund approved funding to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning on four occasions: a decision of 30 January 2009 allocated 200 million dinars, a decision of 29 April 2010 allocated 600 million dinars, a decision of 19 March 2012, a further 20 million dinars and a decision of 6 April 2011 allocated one billion dinars. Furthermore, it says, in addition to the purpose of the approved funds which the project largely cannot identify precisely, millions of euros ended up in pointless advertising, non-existent research and promotion of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning and the action itself, for example, in 2009, as many as three million dinars. So over 35,000 euros have been squandered only to promote the sign of action. It is also interesting how the funds are approved by the Environment Fund for Ministry projects, the content of projects themselves and the role of top ministry officials and the Fund in these pests. It is also important for the competent authorities to determine whether and how the Environmental Protection Fund carried out its legal obligations, to control whether the appropriations were used in a dedicated manner. The extent to which the situation is related to the approval and spending of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action is absurd and devoured by abuses and conflict of interest conveys several details. One of the most remarkable is the circumstance that the current director of the Environmental Protection Fund Željka Jurakić was in 2009 and 2010 a member of the operational team for the implementation of the project. It is recalled that under the Regulation on conditions for the allocation and use of funds of the Environmental Protection Fund, the decision on the allocation of funds to the beneficiary of funds shall be made by the Management Board on a proposal from the Director. So the one on which the proposal was allocated funds for the implementation of the project was at the same time part of the project team. In order not to read long, long materials now, there is indeed a lot, the conclusion is only one, which is that they spent 600,000 euros of state money in non-existent projects, in projects that had only a name, and, as a consequence, they had absolutely nothing for realisation. This isn't what I'm saying. This is what the Public Finance Supervisory Coalition says. From what I have stated, I would like to call once again on the MPs to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44809	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on the replica of Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44810	Thank you. If I were to use the same style of respect for members of the Rules of Procedure that obliges us to talk about the agenda point, I would read you happy and interesting texts about how and at what stages the president of Serbia or his brother polluted Serbia. That's the difference. I don't think so. Read the lines of the Coalition for Control, quote the verdicts, the pink yellows as much as you like. The frog is, since the policy proposed by the yellow to Serbia and, on tomorrow's day of defence of the election result and yawn, it is a policy that you must implement. I know it's not easy. I know it's scary when you have to run a policy you don't believe in, but that's the way it is. So, as far as I'm concerned, DS, you pink all the yellows you want. For every investigation, for every trial, we are at your disposal, as we have been for the last seven years. However, the results of investigations and judicial rulings of judicial shortcomings. That's how it works with uglyness and empty muddying of people you can't stand because you've been beaten by the idea we've worn, worn and carried for 28 years. I am pleased that you have joined Europe's Serbia, a modernising idea, a coalition made by DS, which you have taken a difficult, incredible step to step out of the mythic, violent, losing Serbia into the winning one. It's good for Serbia and yellow roses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44811	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44812	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 104. I want to show you that you did not respect Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So, I don't know on what basis the lady, who spoke before me, was entitled to a replica. I really don't know where she felt called. Did she feel called when I mentioned Gilas, or felt called when I mentioned Dulic, in a luxuriant sense I mentioned him, or perhaps I felt called when I mentioned Bosko Obradovic as co-ordinator of their entire group of MPs here the Alliance for Serbia? So, I don't know where she felt called here. She mentioned Mrs. Comic defeating the idea of some. I only know about one win. Winning the SNS, defeating the idea of Serbia becoming an honest country, a country of honest and responsible people in power. The victory of the SNS in the 2012 elections in 2014 and 2016, in the presidential 2017 and in the city 2018, and where your idea just won, the idea of robbing Serbia, the idea of a poor Serbia, the idea of Serbia without a future. That's the only victory I know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44813	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44814	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Member of 107 concerning Article 103. Mr. Chairman, it's nice to tag some dates. It is tomorrow October 5th, the day Goran Jesic entered India with a piece of chair from this assembly and waved it as a sign of victory. As an integral part of October 5th, as an integral part of the DOS, I can say that the enormous energy of the people that was poured into the desire for change was both enormous and sincere. But none of us knew that much of those who led us, honored exceptions, didn't want to promote society, just wanted to rob it. A lot of them went into apartments, there...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44815	So how did I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44816	Because you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44817	Please point to my breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44818	To talk about October 5th, I think the injury is dignity because the enormous energy of ourselves who were on the street was uncontestable, but the contention was the desire of those who led us to put themselves in the castles, to place themselves out of torn shoes and torn jeans, and here I am not talking about Mrs. Comic, to enter the castles, to put themselves in fairy tales, and to place the people in a fable. And while they have lived and robbed themselves over the years by estimates of international organisations, $51 billion only until 2010, the people barely survived. So, you should remember those dates, but that's the date of the huge energy consumption that went wrong because certain leaders gambled that energy on October 6th for bags full of marks, and they sold October 5th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44819	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Gordana Komić. (Gordana Comić: Replica. Well, you have no right, this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can give you the amendment. (Gordana Comić: I can do it by amendment. You're right by the amendment, I can't replicate it. (Gordana Comić: What amendment? · Global Voices I'm sorry, please, my bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44820	Thank you. It's no problem that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44821	Can you hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44822	Sure, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44824	Article 27 and Article 103. I suggest that you should have told colleagues who don't understand why you gave us the replica to say two things. First, that the replica is the discretionary right of the presidency and that it decides on the basis of the conditions that have been acquired whether the replica will be given or not. Secondly, since I am absolutely certain that you also know the party I belong to and the people of that party, you could explain to your colleagues that you would have the right to replicate when the former Democratic Party President Dragan Djilas, former Foreign Minister DS Vuk Jeremic, former president of the MP club DS Borko Stefanovic, former deputy president of the Parliament club Janko Veselinovic, former MPs of the Democratic Party for a simple reason however much, however much you poor, one yellow follows you, no matter how much you try to order yellow and bury us, beat us and bury us, you lose sight of the seed whenever you bury us. So whenever one of the yellows from the Alliance for Serbia is mentioned, I would have the right to a replica. And for the job of the chairman, it's not easy, it would be on the edge, but here's mine to say that there's no fear of modernising ideas in Serbia carried by the Democratic Party, wearing it and always wearing it. It favours all, even those who love violence, even those who love propaganda, even those who think they can escape from winning the idea of the Democratic Party, European Serbia and all that European Serbia means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44825	Thank you. I apologize again for the mistake. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 108. So, I don't mind Mr. Chairman giving the opposition a chance to come forward. I have nothing against the Democratic Party. I don't have anything. I worked with them. So I don't have anything against DS, the way it was. I have against the DS as it became after 2003. So, I'm saying that DS has been called just since 2003. I don't want to bury DS. I want her out of trouble. I want her out of the hands of Dragan Gilas. I don't want her to be the locket of Dragan Gilas. I don't want her to get hit. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. I haven't blocked the DS for four years. That's what Dragan Djilas, Sapic, was done by her members. That's what those who only after the death of Zoran Djindjic as Gilas entered the DS did, got rich at the expense of DS, and then bought for that money for small money and now they're handling it and bringing it to the site of some lunatic or I don't know what it's called to run. So I'm not burying DS. It wasn't me who stole it. It was Dragan Gilas who stole it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44827	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44828	Dear Chairman, I would like to point to the violation of several members of the Rules of Procedure, including a member of 109, who regulates the reminders to be given to those peoples who speak, to say, as it stands here, in an inappropriate manner through direct address to other MPs. In particular, it was the case of colleagues of Aleksandar Markovic who spoke to me personally and spoke about some information and semi-information, so it would be a turn to correct it and confirm it. So I can understand that they are bothered by the formation of the Alliance for Serbia as the largest opposition bloc in the last 15 years, but it is not right for them to interpret the Alliance for Serbia, but if something is public interest, we as representatives of the Alliance for Serbia can talk about it. For more than half a year, however, we cannot appear on any Belgrade television with a national frequency, no opposition leader has hosted any political show for more than half a year. I am not any co-ordinator of the Alliance for Serbia here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I am head of the Parliament's group Dveri, one of the members of the alliance, such as Goran Ciric, head of the DS or Sanda Raskovic Ivic, head of Serbia's parliamentary rescue group, and we co-ordinate together, of course, to our parliamentary groups that make up the Alliance for Serbia in a desire to perform together on issues that we have agreed on in the 30-point programme platform. If we are already talking about the Alliance for Serbia, then Serbia's citizens should finally hear that there is a Alliance for Serbia at all because no media should report it, because people would then start thinking – wait, there is a major and important opposition forming. This is the largest opposition block in 15 years. Here's finally someone who can stand up to the authorities and I understand that from that point on, someone's getting in the way of the Alliance for Serbia, but it would be their turn not to use half-information, but to introduce ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44829	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44830	These members worth talking about in this situation, I would add 109, since there is a lot of talk here about what is new on the political scene of Serbia and when the Rules of Procedure does not allow, which is clearly, then there are some measures, 107 is true and 108 is true, but I think 109 also refers to the management of the situation. So, what's there? It's really hard to say, let me tell you, Mr. Chairman, it's very hard for me to tell myself today, I saw in the paper this morning that there is a coordinator of the Gilas-Tacun-Ljotic Association for the National Assembly. The man boasted that he had become a coordinator, I would now congratulate him, but he hesitated in the meantime. Looks like he didn't hold out until lunch break. Somewhere, two, three hours later, he says, "I'm not a coordinator." Whether it's anything or nothing, I won't go in there, but whether it exists now or not, I tell you, to be honest, I'm not clear. Is there a coordinator, is there any kind of organization at the level of this tycoon-lyotic association in the National Assembly, I absolutely don't know. Then I'll stick to the things I know, because this is about a principled policy that lasts for three decades about who's big and important. For example, this principled policy now implies that under the coordinators that may exist, they do not exist, they share the same values. That people today are the same family, as they say, right? There's a coordinator, or he's not a coordinator, who claims they're the same family and share the same values. On the side that these are the ideological values of Dimitri Ljotic and Ljotic's choir, which I congratulate if that is three decades of the ideology of those who felt hurt when they mentioned politics. But those are, say, the qualifications of Dragan Gilas and his personal wealth. I see October 2013 co-ordinator, who doesn't seem to have, says Dragan Gilas was nobody and nothing until he entered politics, until he teamed up with those who have been representing the right values for three decades and then, it's said, the coordinator, who didn't seem to have gotten rich a hundred times and became a millionaire. So if they are, I'm ending up, if these are the things we need to discuss today, it's not at all controversial. But if this were to be presented for some kind of power by those who aren't clean and whether they exist, I think it's, first of all, funny. Well, in order to avoid laughter, you and article 109 should apply if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44831	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I think we should continue working on the list so this debate doesn't turn into a debate on the Alliance for Serbia or for me as the chairman of Parliament, it doesn't exist. So anyway, I think we should keep working in line with the subject and the bill proposals that are on our agenda today. And what we can hear, including Minister Trivan's debate, along with his team. So I suggest we all keep working on the list. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44832	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a very important proposal for a law on the protection of the environment. In order for the citizens of one country to be healthy, the country must have priorities as well as how to protect them from various pollutants affecting the life and health of the same. With regard to the protection of the population from dangerous polluters, Serbia is significantly lagging behind the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where a high degree of environmental protection is present. According to data, Serbia annually loses more than 6,000 people who die from severe diseases, which are the consequences of polluted air, I cannot help but mention the aggression of the "Mercy Angel" in 1999, which unfortunately cost innocent citizens of Serbia, and not only Serbia, which will suffer for centuries because of the poor uranium and other toxic particles. And the consequences of not talking. They are best spoken of by more and more children suffering from the most severe diseases in the modern world. As much as the government cares about its citizens, or better to say does not care about clean air, it shows that out of 45 measurement stations for air quality, some do not work for years. In that case, we can guess how much harmful and dangerous matter we bring into our system. The drinking water is also a lower quality compared to the countries mentioned, meaning, Eastern and central Europe, and one of the main and burning problems is waste material dumps where, unfortunately, Serbia is at the bottom of the European scale. We see through various reports that Serbia in 2003 had plans and projects to close existing urban and municipal non-sanitary dumps with the construction of new regional centres. But according to the report, priorities went the other way. So waste management problems today require significant resources. Do you think that the EU, in which you are so eager, wants Serbia under its laps with so many wild and insanitary dumps? What am I saying? An obvious example is the environment I come from, but no better situation is in other cities throughout Serbia. One of such insanitary dumps is at the very entrance to the municipality of Prepolje, which threatens to collapse into the Lim River and create an even bigger ecological disaster. On several occasions, the Ministry has been informed and warned from 2012 to 2016 about this ecological disaster for this municipality, its citizens and the environment. Mr. Minister, do you, like your colleagues, have special treatment for this part of Serbia? If the gas, for example, came to Zlatibor 10, 12 years ago, why can't it get to Nova Varoshi, Preboj, Sense, Prepolje? So that the lube and coal would be significantly less in use, the environment cleaner, and the citizens healthier. The West and the Southwest are one of Serbia's most beautiful parts. In these parts there are areas of exceptional natural qualities and potential. Among other things, there is the mountain of Jadovic, which belongs to a dinar system with large forest spaces and pastures at 1,734m above sea level. On the slopes of this mountain and on the mountain itself, there are three protected areas which are rare, and perhaps the only example in Serbia, and beyond, thus proving the diversity of flora and fauna in this area. From this mountain and its branches, there are five rivers, Mileševka, Sopotnik River, Uvac, Mrkovac River and Dubočica. Four of them are under protection. The special nature reserve "Klisura river Mileševka" has been protected since 1976, where most of the gorge is under the first degree of protection, and then a new study was carried out in 2012. Of the natural values of this reserve, the Millesev colony of white-headed soup is known to number 35 couples constantly populated in this ravine. It's the second colony in number of nesting couples after Uvačka. In addition to the white-headed soup, there is a habitat of Pancic's fatigue, then of the 10 species of owls in Serbia, in this area, lives nine. Then, two pairs of dwarf eagles remaining in Serbia are 15. Of the large mammals, the area of the gorge and the mountain of Zadovnik, is the habitat of the dark bear, wild pigs, wolves, foxes, etc. The area of exceptional features "Podovnik – Ozren" has been protected by the state since 2012. Also, with a large number of rare and protected plant and animal species, there is a Bird field in this area. It is a small place, a small settlement of the village of Milakovici, where UNESCO has brought under the protection of several facilities. Since 2009, a feeding ground has been formed on this beautiful mountain for these mentioned species, bringing out annually the slaughter of dead animals over 30 tonnes of food, which has previously been given the consent of the competent state authorities. In this way and in this place with the help of nature cleaners, the natural circle or food chain closes, while the man in this case protects himself from spreading infectious diseases. The mention of the nature of Sopotnica Falls is also under the protection of the state with its waterfalls. So Jadnik is an interesting area of a large number of researchers, where every year there is a monitoring of white-headed soup, as well as a report by Jovan Tucakova, a floral and fauna researcher, where he found that 25 different species of plants can be found on one square metre. With such natural resources and with this natural treasure, the Poorman has all the conditions to declare himself a national park. I use the opportunity to mention both the mountain of Tara and the river Drina, which is like Lim, is exposed to great pollution due to numerous dumps along the river itself and a huge amount of garbage. The cause of pollution is human negligence. But even the state does not show any intention of solving this problem and removing the dumps from the Drina coastal zone. Serbia and our ministry need to launch an initiative to address the problem of pollution in the Drina River, together with Montenegro, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. While I'm at the Drina River, this problem is also related to the Lim River, where excessive and uncontrolled exploitation of gravel has a significant impact on the fish fund, but also on the overall nature of the environment. The pollution of these rivers is a long-standing problem that is not being solved systemically and which, in addition to huge environmental problems, poses an obstacle to the rapid development of tourism. In one of Serbia's most beautiful tourist regions, all these problems and concerns about the protection of these and other natural goods and national resources should be resolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry. IPARD funds and so-called funds. The European Union's charity is primarily aimed at kidnapping our vital resources in the future, which we cannot allow. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I weren't just talking about the western and southwest parts of Serbia, I'd say something about the very problem of one of the most polluted cities after Valjevo, which is Panchevo. Is it still, Mr. Minister, a Beotok company that collects, transports, dumps dangerous waste where it's forbidden? What about the waste in Bavanist and the road to the dowry, which for months has been provided by members of the Ministry of the Interior, and when this dangerous waste will be removed by the citizens of Panchev and the surrounding area and why is it not responding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44833	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Minister Trivan wants to speak to you. Here you go, Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44834	Thank you very much. You are undoubtedly coming from one of the most beautiful parts of Serbia and there is no doubt that we are paying special attention to this area. Whoever went there knows what you're talking about, so that's really the beauty of a complete one. But the question is why in some places in the whole region that you mentioned is such a bad state of the environment, and it always comes down to that famous question of our consciousness about how much it takes to think about saving the environment. It won't be like you've been waiting for me all these years to finish that part of the job. But don't despair, we'll be very happy to help, and we'll be doing your work right now, let me tell you, and I'm saying this all affirmatively, without any shreds of irony and whatever you want. I just wanted to make it clear that our problems in our society, even the municipalities you've been coming from, have been piling up for dozens of years, that it's not just about years. Also, if I want to justify local self-government, I know that neither there was enough understanding nor enough money to solve a lot of problems. But, you know, it's still not all about the lack of money. Sometimes it also hides in the fact that we need to let the citizens know that they must and may and may behave, especially when it comes to that natural beauty that you are talking about here today. So without going into too much detail right now. We're very busy now and in the dump, we've found a lot of things that aren't absorbed, so it wasn't there, it seems to me, no bad intentions, just a little waste of time, and maybe not understanding how important it is, that we don't get into any other kind of trouble right now. I think we'll get there soon enough with your colleagues who live and work there on the spot to a solution that will be good enough, if we overcome some of the problems we have, they're sometimes financial. But you're quite right that monitoring is something that is very important in Serbia, that, in my opinion, is at an unsatisfactory level, because how will you know what you're doing if you don't have enough good monitoring. You were talking about the air, and I'm aiming for it. Now, we will try to budget for next year, and there I ask you to support, all of you as MPs, to significantly increase the monitoring funds we need for our Environment Agency to do its part of the job well, otherwise it works well. Also, your mention of protected goods is an important question. We intend not to hold back on that part of the surface that we now have in Serbia, one of our fellow Members mentioned it here, we intend to raise it significantly, and there is a chance for you, in your region, to get suggestions on what we could do. I also want to remind you that this year, unlike all previous years, we invested more money in protected natural resources. I am informing you that we will also increase the resources that will be allocated to protected natural resources in the coming year. You in your area have reason to strengthen tourism on the basis of protected natural resources, and we will also have that in mind. When it comes to Drin and what you are alluding to, we have now re-negotiated with colleagues from Montenegro, Republika Srpska, so Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as we're concerned, we're going to talk about how we can solve the issue of this pollution of our rivers coming from upstream, and I think we could find some solutions, which will also give you a chance to participate and look forward to, I suppose, that. As for Pancheva and the particularly dangerous waste you mentioned, there are no longer those who are safe in Serbia, when it comes to hazardous waste. I don't want to waste much time on all that. For forty years, no one has opened that question, and we have not only opened it, but we are slowly, but we are certainly coming to the verdicts that will be final in this country, because it is not enough to open the problem, but it is necessary to process someone who deals with crime in this way that you are alluding. Panchevo, Banishte and everything else is in the process. So, the processes are in progress, we follow it, we stick to regulations and where and what we can get involved in, but what we're getting involved in anyway, is that, as you can see, we managed to create a climate in this society, that no topic is secret, that there is no taboo topic, and that for environmental crime, for the first time in this country, it is appropriate. It is understood that we will continue to do so, even if we have the support of all local self-government, especially all political parties, so where would we end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44835	Thank you, Minister Trivan. The word is Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44836	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you said there was irony in my speech. There's no irony, there's only pure truth, especially coming from these fields and I know perfectly well. When was the last time you were in those places? Now let me mention, your previous minister who was in charge of agriculture and environmental protection Mrs Bogosavljevic Snezana, I am sorry that he is not here right now, we have come up with a very important solution for the problem of garbage dump at the very entrance to Prepolje. By changing then power and shift, the government has changed, you have come to that place, from that moment to today nothing happens anymore, nothing. The problem of citizens and the environment when you enter Prepolje, you can first and foremost be amazed by the fact that the garbage dump is growing more and more every day. That's the problem, and it has to be solved, and very quickly, so there's no even greater disaster. The Serbian government's strategy regarding Jadovic must be adopted because it has the opportunity to declare itself a national park. Then, you said, as I recall, the law was passed on to the disposal of waste and hazardous waste. Right? Yes, it is. There's nothing to be done about it. When it comes to the processing of Beotok, I think the company is still doing it the way it works. Is it in the process, if the prosecution did what they did I don't know, you think you know better, but she's still transporting, stockpiling and pushing that waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44837	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44838	You're not entirely aware that we're in touch with local self-governments in order to solve the real question of dumps and work on it really is and you'll see in due course. It's not necessary to be informed of every detail, obviously, but it's about that. In order not to comment on this other matter of the Poor Man's other locations, I'll repeat, when I mentioned irony, I thought there was no irony in my findings, so I didn't mean you. When it comes to the protection of the good, the story of the Poor Man and other areas, please, we are very prepared that every proposal of local self-government that comes with a desire to protect some part of the territory, feel free to give us such an initiative. The procedure will, of course, be such that the Institute of Nature Protection has to do all the professional work on this matter and assess whether it is possible. However, from the moment of formation, this ministry has a terrible ambition to really protect everything worth protecting in Serbia, to make it meaningful and based on laws and principles that apply in the environment. We'll do it anyway, if the rules allow it, and what's found there, let me say under the circumstances, by the Nature Protection Department, absolutely support and allocate funds to manage such good. Dangerous waste and everything else, we deal with it, the processes are under way, we draw attention again, let's not deal with every detail, it's for the prosecution, the courts, etc., you'll see, it'll be good, because we won't give up on it. I've deliberately said a little bit, and there's really a need for the support of the entire society that we have to push this decades-old problem to the end and that it's known that all those who deal with hazardous waste can't do it anymore, because it's a matter of our nation's health and I'm not joking about it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44839	Thank you, Minister Trivan. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Mircic reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44840	Article 27 and Article 107. We are attending a little lecture here, which the minister has given us, and we must not lose sight of this ministry is not something new, which has not happened in the past. You're talking to us, like we've been waiting for you. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, you didn't have to come. This ministry has functioned, at the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire portfolio has been taken over by most of the Ministry of Agriculture and you have now made ministers the strongest criticism, lately, at the expense of the ruling coalition. You're the one who criticized them so much that I don't know why these SNS guys don't react first? You've blacked them out here, you've accused them, it can be concluded they haven't done anything until you've arrived. Well, I guess the Department of Agriculture, in fact, was in charge of this area, doing some things? Based on what you said to the ministers, you must file criminal charges against Minister Nedimovic. In the past two and more years, Minister Nedimovic has been resolutely in charge of the area. Please, next time you speak to the MPs, when you are speaking to this House and to the public, take care of what you say. You're here, like Elliott Ness, you showed up with a team, and now you're gonna solve all the problems. You've got a year and a half left, so these two and a half years, no one's done anything, just you when you came and only when your ministry works, now it'll all be settled with a magic wand. You won't, Minister, so don't underestimate the public, especially us MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44841	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I believe that I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, I find the minister very much, and by this he is recognizable, in a cultural and professional way, and he has debated and debated with your party colleague Despotovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in voting day, about my injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Minister, Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44842	Let me try not to be in the context where you were, because I don't think that's the way to communicate, but it's your right. When you abuse my illusions, I understand this necessary political context that you want to leave in the Assembly, but I also ask you not to do with the environment. I'm not here personally, and when I say that you've been waiting for me, then I'm talking about 40 years of not opening a topic, 40 years not opening a topic about the environment, and you and I have had enough years to remember what it was 40 years ago and what it is that can possibly propose to do anything, or not do, including me. So, don't abuse and don't get out of context what I wanted to say and I don't intend to go any further that way and I have no intention of having any further discussion with you that way. We can talk about it in some other way, but I really think we've made a change in the environment in Serbia. I really think we've opened up topics and I really don't know what many local self-governments have been doing, waiting for a separate environment ministry to be formed, when they themselves tend to have the authority to deal with all these jobs that we're talking about here today, too. But I repeat, we don't have to complain about it and don't attack us for it, it's not the corner of this story of mine, I still have the awareness that you're still going to do it, but I don't think it's nice. As for those specific things we talked about, the companies you mentioned, I didn't think of a little time to tell you, the license was suspended in August last year. We're working on it, we're trying very hard, believe me, it's not about me, there's a whole bunch of hundreds of people doing this job, including an inspection that doesn't have enough capacity. We want to change everything, we can't change everything all of a sudden, but what we can, unlike everyone else so far, is that we open all the topics and that no topic for our citizens is taboo and it's not a matter of politics, especially not daily ones, because citizens have the right, as you said themselves, to know every single and worst fact, questions about the quality of our environment, from drinking water, to dangerous waste that criminals bury where they don't belong and we have no intention of stopping it. I repeat, everyone in society's support for that part of the job is necessary, because the ministry will just never be enough to do this part of the job, and Serbia needs this, as an oxygen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44843	Thank you, Minister Trivan. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44844	Article 116. Rules of Procedure. We Serbian radicals are even known to advocate as many opportunities as possible to speak in the National Assembly, to speak also to MPs and ministers, but you have defined yourself for this Rules of Procedure which does not allow anyone to appear after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You knew well that Minister Trivan was looking towards Mircic and that he appeared and began to address himself, to comment on what Mr Mircic said in his injury to the Rules of Procedure. You shouldn't have allowed it, or, and every time I tell you, we'll back you up on such violations of the Rules of Procedure if you're all the same, if you have the same archaic that you're looking at Article 116 says that we all here have to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, including the Minister. If you've allowed him, then you have no right to have any more Members of the People's Parliament to not allow him to replicate his injury to the Rules of Procedure. You know, having a special relationship with ministers, being ministers to you is something, I don't know, anywhere untouchable, that's your business. As for you, Trivan may be a mythical being, as far as we are concerned by Serbian radicals, that is the man who said he doesn't care if the border with Croatia will be 11,000 square miles in our favor, which is ours or will be in favour of Croatia. He says it's either the border there or here. And you don't have any problem with that, I see, none of you have any problem with that. So that's his opinion, you support him. It's a logical conclusion. Share that opinion, but do not play with the Serbian border, especially do not allow this to be discussed before an international arbitration, because we will lose it in advance. So, I'm just asking you the Assembly doesn't have to plead, but you plead, can we all speak a line after the Rules of Procedure, or is it the honor of Minister Trivan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44845	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I was just a member of the 96th and here I will read, so – the Prime Minister and the members of the government get the word when they ask for it and they are not subject to restrictions on the duration of the exposure. So according to that, and from what you've seen, I've given you a chance... (Verica Radeta: I said Article 116) I also gave my colleague Despotovic a chance, and they had a very good debate, a very professional debate, and my colleague Mircic signaled the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Verica Radeta: Look at the stenogram. All right, thank you. Here you go, another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44846	This may be a replica of you in your interpretation, but let it be according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I don't know what you're confused about. Why are you asking me if I want the National Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure when I say it nicely? Take a stenogram, see if I want to or won't, I don't think I'll do it twice, you need to concentrate. Don't make fools of us. We're MPs, I'm talking first of all about MPs of the SRS who know the Rules of Procedure, who we know we read, who we know we interpret and where you get the idea of you reading article 95 if I call on article 116. What are you doing? What are you doing and what impression do you want to make? I told you that you violated article 116, and the fact that you got mixed up in 95 and 116 and 27 and so on, we really can't help you. If you have a problem, get out of the way, here, I'm prepared to respect the Rules of Procedure very much and run a session of the National Assembly, I'm a vice president just like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44847	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Let's move on, the word has a People's MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44848	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the topic we are discussing today, and we also see through the debate, is very important, and it seems to me that for decades it has somehow been put back into another plan. I expect that, by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, we should more precisely regulate the area relating to the financing of those activities that will be aimed at improving and protecting the environment. First of all, I think of the part relating to the Green Fund and the preparation and co-financing of projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance. The Green Fund has actually come up as the idea that those businessmen, those organisations that in some way harm the environment, that they pay the environmental compensation, that it actually flows into the Green Fund, and then purposely and distributed. I know that there are high expectations from the Green Fund, from a large number of associations and a large number of organisations in Serbia. You pointed out yourself yesterday that it takes huge resources to meet certain standards and I know it's impossible to meet all these expectations at once. We can discuss this a lot. I'm going to look back at two areas that I think are very important. It is the development, strengthening of the green economy and the importance of recycling. First, funds from the Green Fund should be channelled to companies dealing with or participating in a kind of green economy. We have a green economy in the field and green jobs are just developing in Serbia, and given our geostrategic position, our natural resources and climate change that are inevitable, I believe that focusing on precisely these ecological alternatives is a good way to establish sustainable development. We should not take the steps of some countries that have built their economic well-being on the destruction of natural resources, but on the contrary, we should focus on developing the green economy. I will list examples of Germany and Switzerland as one of the good concepts and even give an example of ten years ago, where during the global economic crisis green economy and green jobs justified their value. Not only have they been detained, but they have even evolved over the past period. The Green Fund also has high expectations for recycling organisations. I am sure that, thanks to this fund, more stable funding and the development of the recycling industry will be ensured. About 10% of the waste is recycled in Serbia. At EU level, it is 60%, and I will set a good example. It's an example of Germany recycling 80%, somewhere I found even 90% of the waste. They encourage data that show that we have made progress year by year and the percentage of processed waste is increasing, the number of employees in the recycling industry is increasing, as well as the collection of environmental tax, and it seems to me that recycling facilities aren't actually working at full capacity. I think that in this case, maybe it's not the problem with the plants themselves, but rather in the way and process of collecting raw materials for processing, so we need to work on the fact that the collection network that maybe in part and in the gray zone has to be translated into legal flows. In this way, in the years to come, we will certainly save a few tenths, millions of euros. Also, it is important that we work continuously to develop awareness of the need to protect the environment and it should be part of a strategic plan both at local and national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44849	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44850	Thank you, Vice President. I am sorry that Minister Loncar is not here right now, because I think he would have to answer some of the things that we as MPs are going to ask him, and they are about an inappropriate, extremely dangerous tone that he brought into this assembly debate yesterday, which has been followed by a hack in the media that has been headed against the Foundation "Serving Life" for two or three days, and all because the government would wash the fact and somehow hide the fact that it did not respond well to the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been treated with rare diseases, especially those of the citizens and children who need to be treated abroad. Minister Lončar here claimed yesterday that the foundations involved in the collection of help for the treatment of children through SMS messages, primarily by thinking about this one foundation, are known for being corrupt, to make decisions on who should be treated, where they should be treated, whether they have no instruments, no experts, no mechanisms necessary for that, and then for this particular foundation, he claimed that the gambling with the money paid by the citizens would be paid so that children, whose state does not allow to be treated abroad, went abroad and received the treatments they needed. It is an old SNS practice not to choose funds, not to choose words and not to choose ways to deal with those who not only think differently, but for any reason stand in the way of an incredible propaganda that the Serbian government has been doing for the sixth year. Our minister came here with a big ad on how there will now be more funds in the Fund for the treatment of children abroad, which, by the way, is not true. It's about treating rare diseases that, first of all, not only apply to children and secondly, it doesn't apply to treatment abroad at all, but let it be. He said there'd be a case in the future. Of course, we demand that this be systemically resolved, that, like everything else, it does not depend on the charity and marketing needs of those who run this country, but on how much funding, on which basis, what year belongs to the RFO Fund, and not that funds are now being paid to wash the fact that in one case, which has and how it has shaken the citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not only not responded, but has reacted in one shameful way and everything that happened afterwards, including this hack on Sergei Trifunovic and on the foundation it represents is the product exclusively those facts. We've had MPs here who have been refusing to pay more than a year's worth of money from gambling. We have MPs who afterwards believe it to be a lynch and that drawing a target on their foreheads is when citizens on social networks announce who the MPs who were against such a legal proposal are. We have MPs who claim that the collapse of the institution is the fact that the data who voted against the proposal is that part of the gain of gambling is directed to treat children abroad, that it is the collapse of institutions. I said two days ago that I didn't know about the larger collapse of institutions than the fact that the MPs here are voting on bells and waiting for Maja Gojkovic or you, Vice President Marinkovic, to press the bell, and then to define how they will vote. I can't find enough words to describe how harmful it is, how dangerous any fingertips are, but any insinuation that someone who collects the money needed to cure a child is being abused. Everything that can be elicited on the charge is extremely dangerous, and yet we have a minister who yesterday, without any problem and without any delay, says that someone with this money is gambling, so he asks the question of how to decide which child will go abroad for treatment. There will be that child whose state did not give money to go abroad for treatment because either as in this tragic case, he lacked one piece of paper or because someone in the bureaucracy had failed, and this foundation, like many other foundations, helped to cure dozens of such children, who may or may not have been cured that such foundations and such actions of our citizens who were key to them were not. I don't know how the minister has no awareness of how dangerous those things are that he says. When he talks about the transparency of the foundation, let's compare the foundation, say, "Source Life", with the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, so let's see who's funding himself, so let's see who and how he has the funds, so let's see where the money comes from and who accounts for what he's doing. Unfortunately, I am sorry, I say, that the minister is not here, I think as a minister, as a politician, as someone who deals with public affairs, to the citizens of Serbia who pay funds to such foundations because they want to help and they don't know how else to help, he is obliged to give them a different relationship. These foundations are doing a job that the government of the Republic of Serbia should do, and all the government of the Republic of Serbia does in return is muddy them, defamation them, and organised for days hash against them in its tabloids and on their televisions. We will certainly and in future advocate any system solution that will contribute to our citizens, especially for children, being more means of treatment. We're afraid this isn't, and we suspect your intentions every time they're followed by an incredible hickey against all those who, for whatever reason, are in your way or not, but it's obviously the way you only know how to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44851	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44852	Since the mention of the Serbian Progressive Party and the terms of hickeys, lies and whatnot, here's what a hickey is and here's what lies are. When you post photos of Serbian Progressive Party MPs like this, and you say that today's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party vote against a solution to treat children, it's a haika, it's a lie, it's the bestial mutilation of people. This is something I don't remember. It is a lie that SNS MPs voted against the solution. By the way, these people whose photos you put on social networks were just the people who voted "Zoja's Law" in this room over three and a half years ago in January 2015. If someone doesn't know, who doesn't follow the congregation every day, because he's three and a half years old, he can't be much, and he can't help but know someone who was in this National Assembly at the time. It is the only truth, as is true, and that the budget fund we are talking about has been established by the government supported by the Serbian Progressive Party, as is also true that we are also discussing today a decision to increase funds for these purposes. The minister came before the Committee referred to 500 million additional money was provided and somehow again the government, which is being transferred against the treatment of children. That's amazing stuff, if we're talking about hacks and what's true. If we're talking about some foundation, here, I don't know, but I think I saw that the man who runs this foundation is not going to get into it at all, that it's about the man who's been saying all those things he's going to do on our graves, it's less important now, I'm not going to get into it at all, that it's about the man who's helping the money he's accused of propaganda, politics, and what else is not, and why? Just because she got the money and gave it to the kids. So, it's getting less and less important now. I saw that he confirmed that some of the funds he received for the treatment of children were transferred to some investment fund. Is it true or isn't it...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44853	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44854	Two more sentences. It's the only question there is. In the end, that 2015 law was passed by us. Those who ask us this question today did not vote for it. It is true, such as the truth and “Hetherland” and their relationship with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44855	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The next speaker is Marijan Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jerkov, you have no right to a replica, he did not mention you, nor did he mention the name of the party. He just answered your accusations, and you know well that no citizens have put our names and characters on social networks, but a senior official of the Democratic Party, and you know who. Here you go. Yes, Tamara Tripic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 107 - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, which has been done by accusing us of not caring for sick children. We've been told to run some kind of hajka and haranga against Sergei Trifunovic. I only saw in one newspaper – I turned money on sick children. I don't mind the gentleman mentioned, no matter what he insulted my late mother, I'm even a subscriber to his foundation. In return, I got a rough harangus, a hickey, a campaign, whatever you want to say, just because I made some data out of it a year and a half ago. It was added and invented, until the Prime Minister then read exactly what I wrote. This newspaper also says that the gentleman in question admits that he turned that money around, admits that he turned 15.5 million with a desire to increase that money. Whether or not he increased it, the statistics show that out of 15.5 million in 14 months, piece by piece, million by million, of 15.5 returned 10. During that period, it was likely that there were sick children, who needed these funds, or they were in turn at a Slovenian firm. He admitted it himself. I'm advocating to be examined, to have the state fully examine private foundations. A team before it's public money, no matter what it's sent voluntarily and text messages. When it's instructed by citizens, when it's directed by the public, it's public money. The team is earlier public because the state has paid 250 000 euros and citizens have the right, taxpayers, to determine whether there was an abuse or not. What the gentleman mentioned insulted us, that's a whole other thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44857	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Sonja Vlahovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44858	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 108 has been injured. You should have taken the measure because the truths were brought here, and I had to react both as a daughter and as a sister and as a mother because we are MPs of the ruling coalition described as beings who have no feelings, who have done nothing for people who are sick and who want to and can be treated abroad. I'm just wondering, Your Honor, what did the opposition MPs do now that they had power from 2000 to 2011? They didn't pass the law or the fund, but they didn't give a single dime to treat people abroad, not a single penny. It's just simple and simple, they're false. In 2012, something was going on, and we know it. Today, only the number of children treated with rare diseases is 200 in 2018. It's just that number. What is it, now I don't have time to say tax here, in 2012? Three hundred thirty-four people, 338 people in 2013, 343 people. The law has been passed and the fund has been passed and we are telling the truth, the respected chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44859	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Sonja Vlahovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Olivera Pesic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44860	I thank the chairman. I'm referring to article 109 in relation to article 107. My colleague Jerkov insulted all of us SNS MPs by saying that we have no awareness of the need to treat children. I want to ask my colleague Jerkov, why did she not have consciousness in 2012? How many mandates were the MP of the DS, and why have no funds been allocated to treat children from rare diseases until then? So, for the sake of Serbian citizens, by 2012, zero dinars were set aside by the state of Serbia to treat children from rare diseases. All we had the opportunity to hear during yesterday's discussion on this subject by opposition MPs DS is pure demagogy. I'm going to paraphrasise a colleague who said yesterday that the government of the Republic of Serbia had not allocated funds until 2012 because they were unrecognizable groups. So children with rare diseases were, according to them, unrecognizable groups and equated at that time, as the colleague said, as well as persons with disabilities. Well, why, if you were in a position to run this country for 10 years and were in the seats of the MPs in so many terms, didn't you do anything about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44861	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Now, in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a three-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work towards the order of the Members of the People, according to the application for a word. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44863	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, the EU integration process includes environmental negotiations. The process involves harmonising regulations, building administrative capacities, developing institutions, and providing financial resources. The amendments and additions to this Environmental Protection Act should go beyond the differences that exist between our legislation and the rules that apply to the EU. The main objective of the proposed changes and additions is to allow the use of EU pre-accession funds and IPARD funds. In 2014, screenings were held for Chapter 27 - environment and climate change, and a subscreening document was adopted in 2015 and was sent to the European Commission. So, as far as legislation is concerned, I would at least stress the procedural aspects of environmental rights, which ensure access to information, public participation in decision-making and liability for environmental damage. The areas related to air quality, pollution control are also very important, water management, waste management, genetically modified organisms, but it is very important and co-operation with other countries on all these issues. Up until a few years ago, the environment was a difficult issue, i.e. a problematic chapter, but with the launch of some of our domestic capacities and with the help of some international ones, the opening of chapters was recommended. And, the opening of this chapter is a major challenge for Serbia, because if we take waste management only for example, we can know that in the area of waste management we need to build more regional waste management systems, waste recycling systems and the use of it in energy and production, closing of wild waste dumps and safely removing hazardous waste. So there are some plans. The plan is for all waste to be on sanitary dumps by 2028, and we need to know that we produce 2.5 million tons of waste annually, and by 2030, some plan is to be able to recycle even half of that waste. This, of course, involves building specific capacities, it involves working on projects and, of course, means withdrawing funds from EU funds. Of course, the effect would be complete, the local self-government must follow all these regulations, measures, and needs that arise in the environment. I'd just say that, here, almost at Nis City Council has approved four million dinars to remove wild dumps. In fact, there are 23 wild dumps in the territory of all five city municipalities in Nis. The initiative for such a project was given by the Environment Protection Secretariat, a plan under which the JKP "Median" will act and will remove these wild deposits from the city's territory. Local self-government, of course, is expected to help the ministry, and this aid is particularly related to the financing of some project-technical documentation. That's quite clear. That is why it is good that the ministry's budget has been increased by some 16% this year, but I think it should be done even more to increase the ministry's budget. So this is a very important area for Serbia's EU accession process, but this is about an area that is very important for improving the standard of living for our citizens. I will speak in more detail in the debate in particular, and now I would just like to say that by supporting this bill, we are actually supporting a healthier and better quality life, and certainly, the measures of the Serbian Government, which exist in this area, deserve all the attention and support in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44864	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44865	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I must join in regretting that the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar, has estimated that this is not a subject on which to discuss and answer MPs to what we are asking as questions, which he has estimated to have more important things to do at this point. But the fact that he's not currently in the O.R. certainly doesn't release us from our obligation, which we're talking about here on behalf of the citizens, to draw attention to a few things. So, what my colleague Alexandra Jerkov just said earlier, I think that one of the essential things that we should take care of, and that's when we talk about these topics, is the absolute obligation and responsibility of each of us to take care of every word, every notch, every tone we talk about, the way we talk, and it's completely inadmissible to come from anyone, and especially from the Minister of Health, unfortunately, at this point in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to speak in a way that is read, that the unscrupulous, unproven accusations at the expense of those who organized, helped, did, made it possible to save a single life. I'm not sure the health minister is aware of the consequences of his words, and that's not an arbitrary interpretation. That's something we can remind ourselves that the minister spoke in his opening statement yesterday, that's the things we read from the stenogram. You know, when the minister says, you send a text message because someone's asking you to treat a child, and your money isn't going to treat that child, and you're not informed about it, but it's going to gamble in some investment fund. There are monstrous accusations about something like this spoken by anyone, especially the Minister of Health. First of all, no one is asking anyone, but the unfortunate fate of any Serbian citizen has led to asking Serbian citizens for solidarity and humanity that no one, anyone, is being helped, but that the citizens themselves participate, and especially that you say that money is not going to help treat a child or anyone, but that someone spends on gambling is totally unacceptable. Secondly, when the minister says - OK, let's start the action and get the department in charge from tomorrow, and he'll call Prime Minister Brnabic, and they'll start controlling tomorrow... It's not a campaign, it's an institution job. If there are any doubts about the business or the legality of anyone, it is the job of the competent institutions to continuously monitor such a thing, not the campaign of one minister or one government, to muddle and criminalise anyone who in any way and for any reason does not like one stranger and one man. When we talk about this, this isn't just an attack on Sergei Trifunovic, who helped, made it possible to save someone's life. This is a campaign against humanity, against solidarity, a campaign against the best in us, which is that we help each other when it's the hardest, although we don't have a system, unfortunately, which we should all create together, which is not going to make a difference, which is going to represent emancipation and security for everyone who needs help. This isn't just a campaign against one man and one foundation that saved and helped people. This is a campaign to suspect and criminalize something that should be sacred to us all and the most fundamental priority, not as citizens, but also as MPs whose obligation it is to be human and solidarity. Coming from the government of the Republic of Serbia something that is inadmissible. You're not a judge, you're not a prosecutor, you're not the owner of the truth, you're the minister who's bound by the law, and I beg you, as a citizen and as a national MP, to be aware of the consequences of your own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44866	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. The word is Milena Turk's folk emissary, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44867	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 107 who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here we heard a previous pay phone talk about a campaign against humanity discussed at this session of the National Assembly. However, I do have to point out that this is not about true information and that this is the government and this is the Ministry of Health that has shown the highest degree of humanity by just forming and setting up this particular fund for treating patients who have suffered from rare diseases. By 2012, zero patients had been sent, there was a chance to be treated abroad. In 2012, 130 million dinars were allocated, each year more and more in this fund. In 2018, we have two billion dinars and 200 patients who have already been given an opportunity to treat the cost of the state abroad. Not only that, these patients and their health are decided by the team of experts, so the consilium that deals and assesses their health status and which type of treatment is best. Not only that, the Ministry of Health invests in the capacities of our doctors, in their specialization, training, invests in clinical centres not only by restoring them, but by building new ones, investing in equipment, so in every way we try to give our patients the best conditions for treatment. On the contrary, this fund and this state and this government have been accused of dealing with politics and that our detachment of funds in this purpose is something bad. We're just saying that it's important that if there are any abuses, and it's about public money that it needs to be examined and determined. Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44868	Comrade Tepic, I heard you. May I speak to my colleague Turk, if I may? Thank you. Comrade Turk, you have ordered a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. From the two minutes I realized that you wanted to point out that dignity was threatened by making incorrect claims, which is your legitimate right, but I also believe that I did not personally hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I did not know what you were talking about, and on the other hand I cannot know in advance and assume what colleagues and fellow MPs would talk about during the debate and during the discussion. For that reason, I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure. I have to ask you – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44869	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that you have violated Article 27 which requires you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which means that you are keeping an eye on the truth and the truth in the National Assembly. I'm sure you, as a folk MP, have knowledge of previous work, especially these, governments whose component you are, or your ministers, because the previous speaker spoke absolutely incorrectly, interpreting something that should, in the truth of the SNS, be the official truth. It is not true that children were not treated abroad before 2013 or 2014 because the gambling law was adopted in 2008. So it's old law and it started to apply in 2009...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44870	My colleague Tepic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44871	Let me finish the explanation and what the truth is. Therefore, it is true that children were not treated abroad before 2013 or 2014. In 2013 or 2014, only a name has been given to a special dedicated budget fund for the treatment of conditions and diseases that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia. Do not let everything that was done in 2008 or 2009 be analized when it is also recognised that it is coming from gambling, therefore, gambling, bookshops, poker machines, national lotterys, purposely directed to treat patients abroad who cannot be treated successfully in our country. So, it's not true, I repeat it the third time, and I'm sure you know that it wasn't previously treated by patients abroad, it was just given the name of the dedicated budget fund, and it wasn't founded by Aleksandar Vukic, as it is imposed here, it's not a private fund, it's a fund filled with citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44872	Thank you. You have ordered a breach of the Rules of Procedure — Article 27. My colleague Tepic, I will present my political views when I am in the parliamentary bench. As chairman, it is up to me not to have a dialogue with you, but to hold a session and respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What my colleague Turk did in some way, you did. I didn't want to stop you from explaining the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, although I am fully convinced that I didn't do it. I have to ask you – do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Thank you, colleague Tepic. Comrade Turk, I'll let you injure the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to address me directly through the breach of the Rules of Procedure and not to continue through the Rules of Procedure replicating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44873	Thank you, Chairman. I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure – Article 103. I would remind you that although there may have been some kind of budget fund that was intended for this purpose, the 2008-2012 budget has been drained to this extent that there was no means to paint and arrange rooms, let alone to refer patients to treatment abroad. Serbia has seen what has not happened to any other country, which is that the health minister is referred to abroad, and that is Tomica Milosavljevic. That's really scandalous. I note once again that right now, since 2012, significant funds have been allocated to refer our patients to get the best possible healthcare abroad, but this is decided by the team of experts. We really want this money to be spent transparently, that every year this fund is increased, so that as many people and patients as possible get a chance. That's what this government and this Ministry of Health are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44874	Comrade Turk, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. My colleague Arsic, is the basis of your report? (Veloljub Arsic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I guess I've done a lot of damage over the past ten minutes. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44875	I'm advertising an article. 107th and 108th. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, let us no longer fall into certain traps when it comes to certain discussions. Namely, here I heard from my colleagues, later it caused a replica, and later my report to the Rules of Procedure, to defend one practice that money that is used for the purpose of treating children is spent on the other side, and that is to say, abuse of spending money, and don't let some people waste it because the bond relationship doesn't exist by signing a contract, but if someone tells the appeal that a child is being treated and someone else is paying money, they expect that money to be dedicated and immediately spent. The reason is that it is used and paid into certain investment funds in order to make a certain interest and profit for the Fund, and I ask the question – is someone else making money while making money from interest, and that is already an abuse because when someone makes an appeal, it is retail and public income and has to be exclusively dedicated to spending. I ask another question to break up here in the Assembly – what if this investment fund invests money the wrong way and the money is lost? What if it fails? Who's going to be responsible for that? The investment fund won't. No one's gonna answer. That's the problem. No one is responding, and that's why this practice needs to be stopped. There is a system solution that solves this problem. So someone's goodwill and one's misfortune are used to earn money. Imagine if we as a state were to pay what we saved from pensions, from salaries to certain investment funds that are not state funds... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44876	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. You pointed to... People's MPs are getting it. I'll wait. I certainly have time. I'll lead the session, not you. You have ordered the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 107th and 108th. Essentially, they refer to the dignity of the National Assembly and to the fact that it is the chairman of the order of the National Assembly. I don't think the questions you've asked me are for you to direct. Many times during the Rules of Procedure's infringements, what is the subject of today's current session is explained and I ask you to do so through discussions as MPs, in the order in which the MPs have reported themselves, and to continue through the discussion in particular. So we don't go on with this... Gordana Comic throws. I'm telling you again, I'm gonna run a session, not you. In order not to continue with this practice, we will now take another break of one minute, and then we will continue in the order of the candidates reported. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44878	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I cannot help but look at the respected citizens and citizens of Serbia for publication on the social networks of members of the main board of the opposition party, where 157 MPs of the ruling coalition are so well described, which does not care about the lives of Serbian children. One hundred and seventy MPs of the ruling coalition voted against a law that would regulate that children are severely ill treated abroad for the cost of the state. Over. There's no further. This was published by a member of the main board of one opposition party. The President-in-Office, both today and yesterday in the discussion of opposition MPs on the proposal for a decision to amend the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2018, statements by opposition MPs who were not recognised as category, patients suffering from rare diseases, and now there are between seven and eight thousand. Instead of looking forward to putting out 1,000 billion and 500 million dinars through the health ministry's budget, we're going to get another 500 million extra with rebalancing, we're going to get 500 million more and we're going to have two billion dinars to treat children who are suffering from rare diseases abroad. I'm just wondering -- why didn't they single out the money from 2000 to 2012? How many children were treated abroad from the Serbian budget until then? Zero, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will now tax you how much we have sent from 2012 to 2017 insurance companies of the Republic Health Insurance Fund abroad, a table picture of the 2012 to 2017 report, until April 2017: 2012 – 334, 2013 – 338 persons, of which 110 children, 2014 – 343, 120 children, 2015 – 485 persons, of which 306 children, 2016 – 673 persons, of which 563 children. In 2018, 200 children who suffer from rare diseases have been sent abroad. So many MPs of the ruling coalition, 157 of us and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are insensitive. As a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I would like to commend the bill. The proposed amendment of the law removes the discrepancies of existing regulations and will allow the use of the green fund to finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds. This creates conditions for more efficient planning for the use of green funds and provides security in the course of realisation, thus financing projects. This bill creates a legal basis for the creation of legal acts to define the conditions of environmental protection for the use of IPARD funds. The users of IPARD can now be not only legal persons, but also natural persons and this is one novelty in this bill. The implementation of the law will benefit the Republic of Serbia enormously and we have heard that this amount is about 160m euros and by 2020 we will be able to use it. It is important in the bill that the Ministry of Environment Protection engages in a number of inspections that will examine whether these natural persons have conditions for applying to these funds. Of course you're going to have to increase the number of that inspection, which I hope you will, and therefore many people, many individuals will apply to these funds, which we have so far been practicing. I will, of course, support this bill in the voting day and, of course, all other proposals for the agreement that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44879	Thank you, colleagues. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. He's not there. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Please sign in. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure!) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44880	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister... (Balsa Bozovic: What does that mean? You can't help it! ) It is obvious that there is no culture of behaviour in this House, and I will stick to some standard which at least recognizes elemental culture as a culture, so I address you the following way. In any case, the SPS as part of the coalition and the entire coalition will support your bill and there is absolutely no dilemma in that. But what is important is that all those who spoke to you, especially with criticism and critical issues, were not well - meaning. Because if there were good intentions, then those questions and criticisms would be referred to themselves first. Well, then there's a question for each of us, how did we help protect the environment? So it's not banal or bizarre, what did everyone do personally? It starts with personal hygiene and collective hygiene and further, to help avoid further environmental hazards. Can awareness of the degree of environmental hazards be raised by possibly education? Probably can. But that consciousness is obviously far from what means a serious perception of the degree of environmental threat. We all have to work together, not just you, although you've made some moves and you've made very positive moves in that direction. As harshly as we treat nature, so much more nature returns to us. And that reciprocity unfortunately, and I repeat, there has been for a long time, and the question is how much longer it will take for this reciprocity to disappear, and to create symbiosis between man and the environment in which he lives, and to protect both of them and to enjoy both the fruits of what nature provides and the man works. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about an example that is an eclative example of the environmental hazard by the sole merit of man, which is the condition of the Waterfall Vrutci in the territory of the town of Užica. A few years ago, five or six years ago, an ecological disaster occurred. The cause of this ecological disaster is man, his bestial behavior towards nature. The waterfall of Vrtci or Lake Vrtci is a huge area. All kinds of things were poured into that lake, from feces to various fertilizers from surrounding plots, fields and meadows, building buildings in an illegal manner, and what happened? Cyano-toxic or blue green algae appeared. They're still here today. It wasn't remedied, and the question is, is there even a possibility of recovery? If the profession says yes, there is technology and there is this Government of the Republic of Serbia and your portfolio is involved in the resolution of this problem and the citizens of the city of Užica are grateful to you for it. The government because it provides funds to build a water factory, and your ministry, of course, in comparison with many other institutions and professions, makes efforts to clean up the water supply. That's good. But it's not good that it hasn't awakened the awareness that it can't be done anymore. It is not good that there are still potential dangers that some other locality, regardless of whether the water area or any other area is at risk, is at great risk today. Anyway, that's how I'm gonna end up. , you have maximum support for all the efforts you make, you have maximum support and towards what you started and in the direction of removing dangerous waste and driving the issue of responsibility of all those who are in a criminal way, doing a criminal act with the greatest degree of social danger, doing what they did and thus endangering both human health and the environment. Keep it that way, because it's the only way that's going to wake up at least a little awareness of citizens that the environment is being looked at in the right way, which is that the environment is being respected. Thank you, Your Bill's support stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44881	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44882	Mr. Milicevic, Vice President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure and I now invite you to read Article 109 together. So, I think it was absolutely necessary for the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, to give a warning for the reason he used cursing and offensive expressions... (Maya Vidinović: I ask you not to turn off my microphone.) [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44883	Comrade Vidinovic, I ask you not to raise your voice. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) So you'll get the word of the Rules of Procedure, of course, just a moment. So, we took a break in accordance with Article 112, because, of course, it has to do, after that, to continue in the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a common single principle search. After that, according to the MPs, I gave the word to my colleague Sonja Vlahovic. So, the only violation of the Rules of Procedure that I could do afterwards, and I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the injury can only be indicated when it is done. (Maya Vidinovic: That's what I did, and you abused it and gave it a break.) ) (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. No, you won't get a word in, because you can't talk about something that we took a break to keep the session going. Thank you, colleague Vidinović. Here's a colleague of Bozovic's, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44884	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 103 and 107. Mr. Milicevic, tell me exactly where it says in the Rules of Procedure to call a break, and after a break that you can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure what was only five minutes earlier. So tell me exactly where it says it? So this is about the same session, you've abused the opportunity to announce that the break, and after that, you've moved on to the agenda even though we've been saying that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is evident. So you have to respect the Rules of Procedure. You mustn't abuse him in order to court the SNS, but you must, especially when it comes to colleagues who used to speak, respect him as chairman, ladies who sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you pretended you hadn't heard that. Just to tell me exactly, when is the break that determines that nothing applies before that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44885	Col. Bozovic, Article 112 – if the president, or chairperson in a specific case, cannot maintain order at the session regularly, he will set a break until the order is established, and the order of the session means to continue with the work as defined in the agenda, and at present in the order of the MPs who have applied for the word. We can interpret in different ways, and about who's right, you or me, will decide the National Assembly in voting day. (Balsa Bozovic: Citizens of Serbia. I just want to ask you in the end, do you want to... Serbian citizens certainly decide in some elections, but MPs decide here. (Balsa Bozovic: Yes, I want him to plead. ) I thank my colleague Bozovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44886	Thank you, Vice President. My injury to the Rules of Procedure just happened after the break. It's about Article 96. Before that, I'm just asking you to explain to me exactly what regular measures you've tried to use, so you failed to maintain order, so you called a break, except for a regular measure of silence? So, Article 96, Mr. Vice-President, says the list of speakers and MPs receive a word alternately as to whether they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word. The list of speakers we received states that in the application for the word, colleague Vlahovic stated that she was unspecified, and MPs who were unspecified spoke after MPs who support the bill or MPs who do not support the proposal. As you conduct the session, colleague Vlahovic, who is undetermined, will speak before many colleagues who support the draft law, say counterpart Karanac, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we're all changing within our MPs' groups, but only if we've defined the same for the bill. It wouldn't occur to us, Mr. Vice President, to ask you that I, who pleaded against the law, now suddenly speak at the end of the list as if I were undetermined, nor would it occur to you to allow such a thing to happen to us. You allow it to be done by colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, who allow a lot of things here. I mean, Mr. Vice President, if you were to manipulate the list of speakers, wouldn't you find any colleagues who would... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44887	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. Manipulation is a difficult word, but it speaks enough of you, not of me. (Alexandra Jerkov: Can I finish the presentation? You're done, you've had two minutes, up to two minutes. If you respect the Rules of Procedure, it's up to two minutes. If I were to fully apply the Rules of Procedure and use regular measures now, then I would apply Article 103 of Article 8 and take your time from the parliamentary group that you have left, but here I am not going to do it. But as for the rotation, we've done a similar rotation when it comes to your MPs' club. (Alexandra Jerkov: When? Well, here we are today. We've done a rotation between two MPs. So, the practice in the Assembly is that within the parliamentary group of colleagues, they can rotate places, if there is such an agreement within the parliamentary group. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the injury displayed? (Alexandra Jerkov: Of course I do. Your explanations are crazy. I thank you. What did you say, excuse me? That's enough talking about you again. We can discuss this somewhere else, not while I'm presiding, because I won't let myself. We continue in the order of the reported. And you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, colleague Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44888	Thank you. I also ask that you not look at just two or three sectors in this room, look at all the MPs, so sit two levels above us, so you can have insight into all the MPs. I think you've hurt a member of the 8th that predicts you're taking care of order at the National Assembly session. With your behavior backwards for a few minutes, you've caused a mess here. You just spoke to a colleague of Jerkov that she used for you, that is, the way you manage these last minutes at the session, the manipulation that it's a difficult word. I'm confident and I have proof, and everyone who follows this session, that you are discriminating. It's not manipulation, it's discrimination. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44889	Thank you, colleague Tepic. Would you like the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44890	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, when we talk about the Republic Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases abroad, I must point out that it was introduced in 2012, and every year, as the economy grew, we increased. This year, the Fund has two billion and throughout the year it is made sure that there is always enough money in the Fund. Minister Lončar explained in detail what rare diseases are present in Serbia and how many children can be treated by these means, and I would only add that the state has also placed the Serbian government's plane for the transport of patients, i.e. the transport of children abroad. The procedure for exercising the right to funds from the Fund is maximumly simplified and ends very quickly, and detailed data on the disease do not have to be supplied by parents themselves, but by doctors who treat the patient. Parents just have to sign up for a budget fund with documentation they already own. Then the Fund asks the clinic for complete documentation, i.e. the history of the disease, the Commission contacts the foreign clinic and processes the request. When all treatment options are exhausted in Serbia, doctors should guide parents to this state budget fund, they should be introduced to conditions and procedures that are, I say, as simplified as possible. For the allocation of funds it is necessary that the clinic where the proposed treatment is confirmed the possibility of successful treatment and that this treatment has been scientifically proven, therefore, that it is not an experimental form of treatment. Once again, there are two billion in the fund, and there is always enough money to treat sick children from rare diseases abroad, and there is also a practice of bringing doctors and experts from abroad to Serbia, which is certainly a more favourable variant for patients. The topic of environmental protection has long been present in our public, precisely because of its importance. I don't think there's any need to stress the consequences of reckless behavior towards the environment, and yet as a society, we still haven't fully assumed responsibility for negligence, neither individual nor collective. The establishment of an integrated system requires a lot of funding, and the most expensive is the management of waste and waste water management systems, according to some estimates as much as five billion euros. So our greatest chance is that these funds are ours, and all efforts must be directed right towards withdrawing funds from European funds. In Bor, as many of you know, there has been a copper and gold mine since 1903. The melting of metal with old technology had a catastrophic impact on the environment, and the pollution of sulfur dioxide was, believe me, cruel. In 2013, the government of Aleksandar Vukic completed the project of a new melting plant, changes in melting technology, the melting plant was reconstructed, a new sulphuric acid factory was built, the air quality was completely converted and from a black spot on Europe's map Bor became a city with the quality of air of the first category. For this we received recognition from the European Environment Agency, which in 2016 RTB declared an ecological star for improving the quality of air in Serbia. A recent recognition of the Ministry of Ecology has also arrived to contribute to reducing air pollution in the country. It was this melting room that was a bright spot in finding a quality strategic partner for the company and for realising growth and development of production. The partners from China are very much in favour of environmental protection, so we in Bor are very pleased with that. The purpose of the amendments to this bill is that its adoption of individual owners and natural persons would allow them to participate and seek funds from the IPARD Fund. The funds can also be obtained by entrepreneurs and companies, as well as by agricultural cooperatives. Therefore, it is very important to apply with as many projects as possible and to withdraw funds to the maximum possible amount. The appeal is, of course, directed to people, to the physical faces, and to the organizations that I've listed. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44891	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44892	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment is on the agenda, in order to establish a sustainable system in this area which includes the use of funds available to the Republic of Serbia, but above all also the use of funds from pre-accession funds. The proposed solutions will also create a legal basis for the adoption of acts relating to the definition of conditions in the environment, which will be of great importance to those who will compete, who have agricultural holdings to allocate funds from IPARD funds. The Republic of Serbia can benefit greatly from the use of funds from pre-accession funds, defined by 160m euros by 2020. How IPARD users can be natural and legal persons involved in growing and processing in the area of the food industry, and this opens up a space for investments in the physical assets of agricultural holdings, so it was necessary to reach the solutions set out in the draft law, in order for future users to be clearly defined, inter alia, which conditions and they should meet from the aspect of environmental protection. The accession of the Republic of Serbia means meeting standards in the field of environmental protection, for which it is necessary to build an adequate infrastructure. Generally, as far as environmental protection is concerned, the Republic of Serbia is indeed facing major challenges. Unfortunately, there are many of our companies that are in bankruptcy and restructuring, where those who led them with such irresponsible behavior have left waste where something has been lying down for decades, and unfortunately metal and hazardous waste goes into the air, water and land. The fight with these challenges and the harmonisation of our regulations with the EU in the field of environmental protection is indeed a complex and responsible task, but responsible government, responsible President of the Republic of Serbia contributes to the creation of an environment for the harmonisation of our regulations with EU rules, as well as to attracting investments, and 10.5 billion foreign direct investment in waste management, water management and reduction of industrial pollution can be expected in the next two decades. The financing of the environment is indeed a priority of this government's work, and the previous government of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic has introduced order and discipline regarding budget spending, this government has continued at this pace to work, and here is also evidence that we notice under the law on the agenda today, that order and discipline are being introduced and in the use of our natural resources and the environment. Environmental protection is the obligation of every factor of society, individual, local self-government, economy, state institutions, but not everyone understood it in different time periods. It's just that maybe they didn't want to deal with it. The responsible leadership that today operates on the political scene by implementing the SNS programme, designs projects, solves problems that citizens face years ago, as some who have acted did not allow the elemental things that people need to lead life in a healthy environment. So today we have the realisation of projects that start from the construction of a water network to the realization of large projects related to the construction of regional waste management centres, or water treatment plants. So all of this is what today fits into a picture that generally positions Serbia in an ever better place on world-renowned lists, and it is doubtless also that it is becoming a leader in the region in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44893	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44894	I thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrljig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia, so that the rest of us must protect the environment, we must protect the environment. We are witnessing that local self-governments, such as my municipality of Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gadjin Han, such as the Librarian and other municipalities, do not have enough resources to do it on their own. We have a large number of dumps that we have to solve, we have these local dumps that we're solving from the budget, but that's very difficult. For example, the Municipality of Srlig from which I come has begun, but the project of wastewater management has not been completed. To finally do this project and to solve the problem of wastewater and to protect our nature our Timok and everything around Timok, otherwise Timok is a river passing through the Vrljig, we have to provide funds. I hope, dear ministers, that you and your ministry and our government will provide more resources in the next period of your ministry's budget, and that together we all work to get these small local self-governments out of their small budgets, along with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, together with European funds to work on solving all the dumps, to solve the problem of wastewater and to keep our municipalities the most beautiful, beautiful in the world. Otherwise, I represent in the Serbian Parliament the United Peasant Party, elected from the SNS list, and I really think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by our Ana, with our President Vukic, is giving great support to the development of small communities, the development of our small municipalities, the development of southeast Serbia. One thing is the most important thing, nature has given us everything, we have to preserve it. That is why I call on all my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill and all the proposals proposed, because I think we will have the opportunity to strengthen our municipalities, to protect our nature, to ensure the health of all our citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44895	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44896	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, is there anything more important than the lives and health of people, children, the preservation of the environment and the preservation of natural resources. Taking into account the importance of these laws, you will certainly have the maximum support of the JS parliamentary group, both on a proposal from the Ministry of Health and on a bill from the Ministry of Environment. With respect to your presence, I'll only take a few minutes to say a few words about the completion of the health ministry's law. It is therefore a proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the RFZO Financial Plan. On the agenda we received this very important addition to the law, perhaps the most important decision of the Ministry of Health regarding the lives of children and people suffering from rare diseases. So for now, there are about 200 children with rare diseases on the list of RFZO. Full support for the urgent adoption of this law, the increase of the Fund's funds by about two billion dinars, a short period of decision-making by the medical board, which may be the most important and because this law covers rare diseases that have not been on the list of RFZO. It is also very important that the parents of children suffering from rare diseases be properly informed on how to submit requests to the commission, as Minister Loncar explained in his opening statement, and this is very important. Also, the Fund's list will extend a list of rare diseases that have not been on the Fund's list so far. I don't really want to point out as a priority any sick child or sick man and the kind of disease, I think that everyone's life is equally important and valuable, but I was personally familiar with the letter coming from the city of Alexandrovac about the disease of a child whose diagnosis of disease has not been on the list of RFZO. I am truly expressing my special hope and gratitude that both this child and all the other children, and I really want them to have as little as possible in the next and future period as possible, are using the funds of this Fund, but the news is very positive, that this amount of funds is now allocated, about two billion dinars and that the Ministry also indicates that these funds will be increased. So this bill will have the full support of JS MPs. As for your law, honourable ministers, you also have the full support of JS MPs, therefore, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Proposal for a Law to Confirm the Agreement on the Conservation of African-European Migratory Birds and Water Stations, and then the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the proposed Protocol. So your ministry and Serbia have taken seriously the importance of protecting the environment. She took seriously Chapter 27 regarding the conservation of the environment, the preservation of our waters, climate, air, land, and the health of all people. Users or faces, and I listened very carefully to your exposure, which was both clear and concise, that the applicators for the funds that will be singled out in part by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also by the funds of the EU IPARD pre-accession funds, that the users of these funds will be both legal and natural persons and beneficiaries of agricultural land, which is very important. So legal conditions are being created so that both legal and physical persons can apply to these funds. You, Minister, mentioned as an example of good practice both Austria and Hungary. The Single Serbia MP group, headed by our parliamentary group, respected Dragan Markovic Palm, had a very successful visit to Austria, Vienna, where we could personally see for ourselves about the degree and efforts this country is making to protect the environment, and we also had a working meeting in the field of environmental science at the company Por, which deals with environmental protection, is also present in Serbia. On that occasion, we exposed all the problems, especially when it comes to regional dumps, and you will agree when you come to the head of the ministry and see the problem, that Serbia absolutely has problems with regional dumps. I come from Racine County. There's a problem. The Rasa County has a problem and not to mention other districts. So the big problem is that your efforts must be focused on resolving regional dumps. I believe that you will agree that the issue of number one not only on the European path, but also on the national path must be the issue of resolving regional deposits and certainly all other segments in the area of environmental protection. However, the problem of environmentalism as you in the ministry, when we pass laws in the National Assembly, I believe that local self-government, local self-government units, besides citizens who need to raise awareness about environmental protection, and the NGO sector are certainly full of support in this area of environmental protection, I believe that local self-government units must also participate more actively in developing all the documents needed both in the preparation of projects, submission of projects, and in resolving environmental issues at the local. The environmental law stipulates that the Green Fund's resources can now, to a greater extent, use local self-government units, and this is not exactly a large system, let's say, amending the law, but adapting all these rules that have not been present in the law so far, to EU programmes. Of course, on that path of priority... (President: Fellow Members, bring the end. Thank you. I will sum up in the end that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will also give full support to the environmental protection law and your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44897	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Jelisaveta Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44898	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the bill today on the agenda will greatly improve life in Serbia. Many of the laws we have adopted so far, proposed by the Serbian government, have proved that. The government is working tirelessly, committed and serious. She proposed a series of laws, and the MPs of the National Assembly adopted them. These laws have helped reduce unemployment, raise pensions, and make it better and safer to live in our country. When it comes to this law, we all know how much air, water and land pollution - NATO bombing, heat, power plants and many factories do not care about their waste materials that end up in rivers and land. The government is here to propose solutions to make projects that can solve these problems. We heard, it takes a lot of money to do that. Maybe we don't have enough, we don't have enough for everyone, but it's started by removing the many shortcomings in the protection of the environment that's been neglected for years. The preservation of the environment must be our priority. So I appeal to my parents, kindergarten teachers, elementary school teachers and further taking care of this area. I come from the Sremski Karlovci, which should not be specifically described. I believe everyone has heard of them, and many have visited and been delighted with the cultural and historical values of this place. Travellers from all over the world visit Karlovci daily. It's 10 or 15 buses and sometimes more. Unfortunately, I have to say something that doesn't suit me, and I believe many won't, but it's true. We have to admit, when our school kids get here, the Carlovites become painted with garbage like a New Year's tree -- plastic bags of all colors, chips, figs, various cans that our people have to take away very quickly. I believe that on the way, teachers draw attention to the students for behavior, but they need to be followed all the time. Many say it is even nicer than Vienna. It's very much invested in it and it's being well maintained, but it's as if our young people don't see it. This isn't with strangers who come very often to the Carlovites. I must say, the reconstruction of the road from Karlovac to India has been completed. The road's over in time and there's a lot of help for this part of Sreme. The road access is still running, but the Sremski Karlovci JKP and now the Carlovo municipality's advocacy is being maintained. The canals are dug up, the garbage is worn regularly, and every remark is accepted and removed. All of this can be said for the Indji municipality, Stara Pazova, Nova Paz and some Batajnica. Batajnica has a problem with the groundwaters. The canals are full of water, but also lots of garbage in them. After Batajnica, the road to Belgrade to a turn towards the highway, where a beautiful religious facility is built is incredibly abandoned. The bright spots are some facilities of some private enterprises, gas stations. There are sidewalks in the area that many locals do not have, and these sidewalks are in sight. They're so grown up they can't be used, and the pedestrians that work in that area are moving around in traffic, disrupting traffic and jeopardizing their lives. I don't think it takes a lot of money for this, but it takes a lot of work to clean the canals, take out the trash, get the trees down and clear the space for use. The local community, for example, Saturdays every day on their local television, prays to the citizens to report where the abandoned terrain is, where the ambrosia appears, and here as if no one notices it. Several times, our Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said in his address that our people must change their minds. Citizens, I'd say even my bad habits.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44899	Thank you, colleague Veljkovic. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44900	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Trivan, honourable members of the Office of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the fact that after a long time here in the Assembly we are even discussing laws in the field of environmental protection. Also, after a long time, we have a separate ministry in charge of protecting the environment that cares about this important area and proposes laws that must be in line with European legislation. We have a huge job to do in this area, and Chapter 27 is one of the most demanding chapters in Serbia's EU accession process. It is important to know that EU environmental regulations are extremely large and make up almost one third of the total number of all regulations, which in itself says how important it is given to the environment and how much candidate countries are under the EU's scope for environmental protection. The EU's environmental policy itself is based on the principles of preventive action and the fight against environmental disturbances at the very source of pollution. One of the important principles is to include environmental protection in other policies such as agriculture, industry, transport, energy. One of the world's and European principles is: wage polluter and our country must go towards full application of these and other principles if we want a healthy environment for our citizens. All these principles rest on shared responsibility, both the European Union and the Member States. It is clear that Serbia is waiting for a lot of work and a little time on this road. The harmonisation of regulations with European legislation is only the first step in the process of adapting EU standards and these amendments and additions to the laws that we are discussing here today are just some of these steps. The next phase in adapting standards implies adequate application and enforcement of rules in practice, both at national and local level. As a result, significant investments are needed to invest in infrastructure, maintain construction facilities as well as administrative costs. It is estimated that the highest cost in the water sector, the waste sector and industrial pollution will be in the uptake of standards. However, it is encouraging that a significant part of the costs will be financed from EU funds. That is why we need to take care of the resources available to us and bring about laws that will enable us to withdraw these funds. The amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda of this session relate precisely to meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and co-financing of Green Fund projects for projects financed from EU pre-accession funds. This is how we create formal legal conditions for the use of these funds. To be clear, this law introduces an obligation that the agricultural land that they are applying for IPARD incentives must meet certain conditions in the field of environmental protection. This means that if it deviates from the standard, i.e. if the planned investment for which the funds are sought violates the i.e. pollutes the environment, automatically does not meet the conditions for withdrawing funds. The competent authorities must agree that the investment meets the conditions under the laws governing the environmental impact assessment, according to EU rules, which comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Here, Minister, I have to do a little digression and stress that this model, i.e. The environmental impact assessment should pay greater attention to other areas, i.e. to larger contaminants than agriculture, such as energy, industry, construction. It is for these reasons that there is also an extension of the jurisdiction of environmental inspection, and therefore the need for a greater number of inspectors is created, and I think, Minister, that attention should be paid in the future. I am saying all of this because of more effective environmental protection, with sustainable agricultural and comprehensive development. I hope that we are all seeking the goal of establishing a sustainable environmental protection system in Serbia, as well as the significant involvement of this policy in other sectors. In this way, conditions are created for competitors of the economy, better human health, better quality of life. I think these are the common objectives of all of us, and that is why I hope that, if not all of us, the vast majority, including colleagues from the opposition, will support these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44901	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44902	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, is an important law, or set of laws and decisions on the agenda. It is important that Serbia finally has the Ministry of Environmental Protection, important many things to talk about today, and we have heard many of them insignificant. Politics is a field where amateurism is allowed. And unfortunately, the days happen, like today, when he prevails, so politics becomes a topic, and protecting the environment is just a place to hang onto it. Serbia's obligation to raise awareness of environmental protection among its citizens is high. I am deeply sorry that parliament has not helped much on the subject today in its debate. Dear Minister, you've been exposed to criticism both for what was done and for what was not done, even because you're simply a minister, but from my point of view, you've done a great job. Why do I say that? The colleagues here talked, and not a small number really talked about the subject, spoke very constructively, spoke very professionally, presented the problems that local self-government faces, and I must stress that you have my full respect for one thing that you did at the beginning of your mandate, which is that you have dealt with one unloved statistic that speaks of the number of children with severe cancerous diseases in the southern Serbian province, not by saying whether these children are these or those nationalities. And it's part of environmental protection. This parliament recognized the importance of this and formed the Commission. You've opened a topic that's not easy to open. I don't think you have any conversation on all sides, but I firmly believe in your perseverance and that you will bring things to an end. Why does it matter? Not because I intend to make a political profit or call out some great force now, but because we have to become aware that if we were brave enough to say that we are suffering the consequences of some powerful poison, then we are conscious enough not to create poisons with ourselves, as conscious human beings that are mainly and always the greatest polluters. What have you achieved for this short time in office as minister? In doing so, I don't think anything has been done in the mandate before you, I don't think Serbia has recognized this problem, I don't think it's been easy before, I don't think it's going to be easy for you, I don't think it's going to be easy for whoever inherits you, I just firmly believe that the ministry will exist, when it's already formed and that it's really going to do its job. Investment in the environment is not a cost. Investment in the environment is an investment for the future of our children and their children. What we must certainly increase is the way in which we will charge compensation and punishment to all those who are deaf about what is good for all of us. I believe that we will find both the way and the possibility to punish the guilty first of all, because you have talked countless times about the fact that the investigative bodies deal with all those acts that are not in accordance with the law and that this problem with age will be lost on the entire planet, including in this small Serbia that is an integral part of it. There are several agreements ahead of us, and you are facing organisation and implementation of the regional conference. I believe it will be important for Serbia, and I thank you for believing that perhaps from this very territory we are talking about everything that is global problems. When it comes to agreements, I find an infinitely likable agreement on African-European migration birds. Why? First, you gave me a chance to meet some species I didn't know existed. I am glad that we will be within the scope, i.e. to sign an agreement covering 118 countries. It's important both for our country and for all living forms on this planet. In the hope that all together, regardless of which political option we belong, we will recognise the importance of protecting the environment and that the vote will end in a way that will give you the full support of this Parliament, or 250 MPs, I am ultimately merely saying that the SPS parliamentary group will unequivocally support the proposals of both this law and the agreements that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44903	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44904	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates have been here for two days, as far as we can figure out, in every county, we have a problem in every municipality, Minister. Obviously, the problem of hazardous waste is not just in Obrenovac, Vojvodina and the surrounding Belgrade, so I would like to hear from you what's going on with southern Serbia, the Pyrotski, Nisavski, Pcinski, Jablanski, Toplici County, not only me as a national MP, but also citizens living in that territory? What I want to hear from you, not only me, but also my colleagues and the public, which is why the UN, or UNEP, is the body at the UN, has proposed to hold a regional conference right in Belgrade. As for your presentation, what I find striking, among other things you said: raising awareness through research. You probably know that raising awareness in Serbia cannot only go through research, but we must do so through the institutions of the system. When we talk about the institutions of the system, I mean, first of all, the local self-government, which you have targeted to bear part of the responsibility, and most of the responsibility, and here I agree, local self-government, but before that we will have to work a little bit on education, that is, education, as the distinguished colleague Mijatovic said. I have here research done in 12 municipalities in southern Serbia and I will give you this research later, which is to say, on the question of whether citizens are familiar enough with environmental problems in their municipality, means 12 municipalities, not to read in order, 70% of them say they are insufficient to know what their municipalities are doing in terms of environmental and environmental protection. When asked -- how familiar you are with your community's environmental plans and programmes, 46% say they're under-informed, and 30% of them don't even know that resort. When asked -- would you take part in environmental actions, citizens from 12 municipalities in southern Serbia say 50% would take part, but 36% say that if someone from local self-government hires us or invites us. The last question says -- how do you inform yourself about preventing pollution and environmental protection -- 38% said it's the Internet, and 35% said it's television. Here we come to that resort, someone today mentioned campaigns and media campaigns when it comes to the environment and, above all, I mean that part of the ministry should be the front of that media campaign, of course, with a good escort and the NGO sector, I mean those NGOs that deal with environmental problems. When I say the Ministry, I mean at all a national campaign, and I think we're going to have a much better and much faster impact on citizens' awareness. What I still want to point out is education. From another study done in the secondary and primary schools of the final classes, on a sample of 960 subjects, it means 1,000, do you think that your education has sufficiently represented the topic of environmental protection, high school students and professional schools have largely responded that it is insufficiently represented. Students of all high schools have pleaded that it would be better to introduce a special subject. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44905	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44906	Thank you. Several MPs have mentioned a number of interesting things, but you have in some way opened up the possibility of talking about them and in a different way and that Serbia, and in fact, ahead of Serbia is a lot of work, regardless of the time that has passed, regardless of the work anyone, if you have noticed, is actually not really talking about here ever. This burden of the past that we all wear, we all wear together, and that's why my sentences -- and who cares about something that hasn't been done or someone's done so far, what does it matter, and what does it have to do with the future of my children or your children? It only matters so much that we need to learn lessons from times past to know what to do and in my case it's not a phrase. In my case and the team that I'm leading, it's the full meaning of what we want to do, with all the faults we have, and no one's without sin, and no one's got the deed that can do anything right. But the most important question of all that you have mentioned is education. I personally think that all education, therefore, is every area of life that we could mention today, and as MPs here today, you mentioned a whole range of issues in which we live, from culture to environmental protection. She's usually the 13th pig. But I just don't accept that the environment is a 13th pig. At least we tried to move that rock somewhere for a little while in this year, so we'd be twelve if we weren't thirteen. But I'm sure we'll all agree, regardless of the place in this room we're sitting in, that education and consciousness is the most important part of that story. Now, if we understand and see that even in Parliament, which is the face of our beautiful Serbia, we are not all alike and that we all understand differently the protection of the environment from what our environmental issues today, when there are more important issues, to the contrary, which, of course, is all legitimate, but every question of this kind, speaks in fact about ourselves. I'm not going to comment on it any further, except for the illusion I've given this way. Polls are a means to find out what you don't actually know. And what you said today as a result of these polls, it's actually talking about Serbia as I know it, which will say that I have no illusion of what Serbia is, but when a man has no illusions, then he's able to deal with the problems that are coming, with the difficulties you have to solve or at least you have to solve. This Ministry will not be able to solve all the problems in the environment that exist at this point – that means in a year or two. It will take more time for many problems, because they are historic and no country has developed, which may be at a similar stage of development to what we once were, failed to solve this problem in a year or two days. I know you all know that. Our citizens know that, too. But the most important thing for me right now is that the polls that you're doing, and I'm following them, they're saying that our citizens are aware of how much we don't know, how uninformed we are and how little we all really think together and do a little work to make it happen. Only then, when we all do it together, will we have hope of success. If all that remains with the Ministry, whoever, individual, whatever, it's gone, it's gone, like all these 40 years and not blaming anyone again. Well, we're all responsible for where we are today. We're all endangering the environment together and each of us individually pollutes the environment, wanted-not, because we slave to technologies that exist today, and technologies are profit. We're a slave for profit. As long as profit is the main totem of which our civilization is moving, we'll have trouble fighting for the place of the environment we're talking about today. Dangerous waste has become a paradigm, that's what I said, and I repeat, we won't stop at all. It's not at all a question of my status, it's not at all a question of what's going to happen to any of us about the public, criticism, not criticism. No, this is a question of existence, of life, and of our nation's health and there is no compromise and, I repeat, neither will it be. I don't have to prove to anyone that I'm doing it, that I think so, and that the results already exist. Whoever wants to see it, they'll see it. Anyone who doesn't want to see it, it doesn't cost you a dozen results, and that's why it's less important. It is much more important for our children to be able to understand what we are doing today and that you today almost have no kindergartens or schools where in one way or another, you talk about the environment. So from now on, what you were talking about is that we're getting less aware that we don't have consciousness. We've been making progress, we've been making progress in recent years, and we're all a little bit, as far as we're concerned, we're all a little bit responsible for that story. I mentioned dangerous waste because the south of Serbia, which sometimes has a pervasive sound in some interpretations, and it does not, is as important a part of Serbia as the north of Serbia, or my somewhere east of Serbia. Whatever. We have a beautiful country. And I can assure you and your fellow citizens that here, and you personally are interested in how things stand when it comes to southern Serbia, whether it has our focus, and here, I assure you, but I can't talk about everything, because the state authorities are dealing with what we were dealing with in the situations that you could see on television. It's simple, you understand that. Of course, other things that are at stake, dumps, waste, etc., communal, we do this quite openly, we co-operate with local self-government. My colleagues leading these two key sectors, as far as this is concerned, are working very hard to ensure logistics in order to help all of us get to those papers, projects, so that we can perform and, as the people say, stab the Ash. Now, that's why the Ministry of Environment needs money, and today, no matter which side of this room you're sitting on, you said that money to the Ministry of Environment is needed. I don't need them, I need the Ministry, and who wants to read differently, and they need to read differently, let them read from my lips that these money needs local self-government to have the capacity like yours to make project-technical documentation so we can make progress, because without that, there's no progress. All the countries that came this time went through it by essentially making mistakes right there. There were no projects, and they couldn't even draw money to make them feel better. How long does it take to solve all of this, it's a question? It depends on how smart we are, how willing we are to hire our smart and educated children so quickly and how much money we have, those green pairs that are being talked about here today, that are ours and should end up in the Ministry of Environment, and right behind that in the budgets of local self-government to start that wheel already. I'm tired of waiting, I've been working and thinking about this job for 30 years, and now it's my chance to try and use those instruments that the government gives us. Whether it's like that or not, you'll be estimating. I'm sure we won't give up and that Don Quixote will never surrender to us, despite everything and despite everyone, you could have noticed. It's the fate of people who deal with the environment that, in fact, meddles in everything, even when we don't have jurisdiction around here, we at least talk about it, and we think it's good, because society needs to develop dialogue on these issues. The UNEP you mentioned is just a reward, so I'm experiencing it for this year's serious work. The UNEP that has seen us at many international conferences from the UN and beyond where, as before you, we are talking about the environment in world frameworks and we are talking about climate change and sustainable development with the question of what have we done over the past 40 years planetaryly? We've done a lot, but we have a problem with the result being none. The average annual temperature on the planet is still rising, and we're drilling into heroic breasts that we've been doing a lot of work. It's the nature of administration, bureaucracy and those who think it's good enough. It's not good enough for Serbia. Serbia has said that more than once, and Serbia, if nothing else is trying to sniff and do other things and do it successfully, understandably. They recognized us as a factor in this part of Europe. We are not pretentious, we just think that we know the work we do, that after a long time Serbia has stepped out publicly, quite openly and directly, as it is today, and that is why they have offered us a regional conference that will deal with key environmental issues, but we did not want to remain on the question so-called. The Western Balkans because, frankly, I am not sure what that means, but we have proposed and it has been accepted to be a whole southern Europe. There is an opportunity for Serbia to host all of South Europe and the UN on 4 and 5 December, thus showing that Serbia, apart from being a very good host, which we have seen, is also competent to deal with the environmental issue and we already have, of course, calls from different countries to participate in their meetings and help them in how we think we should work. One of the MPs here rightly said that we have extraordinary scientists, exceptional experts, extraordinary logistics of this kind. Remember only our children who win first place in international science competitions. What we don't have is money, but let's at least spend that money exactly the way it's supposed to be. Let me say that, given again this survey that you have mentioned, I say that we tend to create the policy of our ministry and our government, in this way, and that without the media, without government organisations and citizens and all this that has been done so far, and there's a lot of it, it wouldn't be possible to do. As rarely so far, it seems to me, in a society where I have been present for a long time, of course, I have not noticed that society has been destroyed, from political factors to civil society and the media, supported the efforts of a group called ecology or the environment, and that one of the few topics in which, regardless of the criticisms that exist, we have achieved some kind of consensus in Serbia. Imagine in Serbia a consensus, as if we had achieved a consensus in the environment. Thank you for asking the question you asked, you gave me a chance to tell you how, in fact, Serbia is beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44907	Thank you. The word is from a fellow MP named Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning I would not agree with the opinion expressed in the previous two days that this regular autumn session should begin with irrelevant or less important drafts of the law. Dear colleagues, we witness every day throughout the planet of climate change and their consequences. Weather disasters, floods, slides, hurricanes, tsunamis, storm winds, leeches, heavy rainfall and extreme droughts do not pass any country on the planet, and all as a result of the carelessness of the natural environment and the protection of the environment. If you crossed the bridge on Besca, what worries me is that the Danube is extremely low waterway, that land islands can be seen in the riverbed, and the media has also written that the Danube can be run over in certain places near Novi Sad. It is estimated that if we continue with the current practice of solid waste management, by 2050 there will be 70% more waste, and that peoples in Africa, in North Asia, and in Europe, will face a kind of crisis of plastics. Dear Minister, I would especially like to commend you. You've pointed out this many times, which for you and your environmental associates is not a job, but a way of life and an honor to you in that attitude. By forming a special Ministry of Environmental Protection, this government has given the necessary impulse to start a change when it comes to the awareness of all our citizens about environmental protection. What you mentioned earlier, I want to document, this week is a children's week, and in the Vrbas municipality, it started by organising environmental workshops together with preschool, and it's really done regularly. I think that's the most important part where we influence the environmental awareness of future generations that will certainly be different to the environment. I'd like to point out some of the successes you've managed to make at the Ministry in a short time. There is a significant increase in the number of citizens who address the ministry and report environmental problems in their environment. The ministry gets dozens of citizens' applications a day at a special e-mail address you opened to report locations suspected of stockpiling dangerous waste. A first-degree verdict was also received, as you stated in the opening statement. In co-operation with the state prosecutor's office, the interior ministry, the BIA launched an action to detect locations where more dangerous waste has been illegally stored. Currently, the courts are being prosecuted by guilty, responsible persons. The removal of historical waste and enhanced control of entities operating in the hazardous waste management chain has been continued. The ministry is in co-operation with large trade chains, i.e. You at the head of that ministry have launched a campaign to reduce the use of plastic bags through their symbolic charge. In the first month of administration, a 50% reduction was observed, 60% as stated, and I found 50% of the data. Of course, what I want to support is that you've made the point that you're going to stand up for the removal of plastic bags. That's very significant. If you head south of Serbia at some point, when rivers have low water, like painted trees with plastic bags is trees along the riverbank. The financing of environmental protection must be both predictable and larger, as we have said several times, and all MPs agreed. Greater resources are needed for ecology and part of the Green Fund's resources should be used for local self-government, to make project technical documentation for projects, to make waste water purifiers so that we can compete for funds in pre-accession EU funds. The realization of most of the infrastructure projects in the area of environmental protection, i.e. waste management and waste water management, was stopped or slowed down before you came to the head of the ministry. One such project is also in the community from which I come. It is a project to collect and treat wastewater from the Great Baška Canal, the municipalities of Kula and Vrbas. The EU project is worth 15m euros, should have already been completed. The central wastewater treatment plant was built in Vrbas, and the goal is to contribute to the protection and revitalisation of the Great Bac Channel. The capacity of this central facility is 120,000 households. A joint venture called "Vrbas-Kula Pre purifier" has been formed. So far, 99% of the sewerage network has been built in the city of Vrbas itself, and only 30% in the settlements. We got 50 million dinars from the province government. You said yesterday that five million more were provided, how much we lack to complete this project and put it into the final function. What was bureaucratic business is done. It's really always going to our place, but this joint venture of this kind is in the country first and we're in child's disease right now. What I would like to point out is that your Ministry of Infrastructure Projects has secured a continuation, alongside Kula and Vrbasa and in Leskovac, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica. New funds have been provided for IPA funds for projects in Kralje, Brus, Blacu, Nis and regional systems Deep, Srem, Machva and Piroth. I would also remind you that in February 2016, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, when she led the ministry in front of the SPS, she was Professor. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, adopted a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Nature and Others. These laws were in line with the legislation in force in the EU countries, and in this respect they received green light and approval from the European Commission. An extremely important paper of the Environmental Protection Act was the establishment of a Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia with the aim of establishing predictability of continuity in the system of financing environmental protection. In fact, the total cost of approximation of the Republic of Serbia in the area of environmental protection has been estimated, we could hear it today, at 11 billion euros in the period up to 2030. It is about the necessary huge funds, but Serbia as a candidate for membership can also count on EU grants through IPA funds to finance infrastructure projects in this area. The necessary condition for the use of these funds is a continuous source of co-financing by the Republic of Serbia and units of local self-government and amounts, co-financing usually ranges from 15% to 30% depending on the value of the type of investment. In 2015, also at a time when it was headed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, an IPARD programme was adopted by the European Commission that prepared the ministry as a financial support programme for our agricultural holdings worth 175m euros in grants. To withdraw these funds, a number of technical conditions had to be met and appropriate legal regulations were passed. It also refers to the current amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment which are on the agenda. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to allow the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from pre-accession funds, meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. Given the importance of regional co-operation in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Environment and Nature of the Republic of Croatia prepared an agreement on bilateral co-operation in July 2015. The most important goal was to develop and promote the development of economic, scientific and technical contacts to address regional and global environmental problems. Serbia and Croatia belong to the same region. They have the same or similar challenges, needs to address issues and problems in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation. This agreement shows a willingness to co-operate, exchange of experience and to tackle regional issues in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation and therefore support what is on the agenda and what we will adopt. Finally, I want to support the change in the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018. The total amount of funds is 4.1 billion. Two billion dinars are for the treatment of rare diseases, as we could hear, and the extraction of prescription drugs, the payment of sick leave and the purchase of medical aids, and what I particularly want to point out is that for the first time, the Republic Health Insurance Fund is also getting the innovative drugs of the newest generation. It is commendable for the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Thank you. The parliamentary group will support all proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44909	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44910	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear a debate that I don't think is appropriate, especially for those who had only 45 children in the course of the year they sent for treatment on the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budgets, but they were treated in a certain other way, which is by giving donations to certain organizations that were involved. What was inherited in 2012, and I will remind some colleagues who were MPs at the time, this is exactly the type of donation that was literally made out of the pocket by not only Serbian citizens, but also the organisation of various gatherings to raise money, so the SNS had only 65 MPs in 2012 and we gave our contribution to this goal as a kind of donation and raised the most resources as the folk MPs of the Serbian Parliament to show that we were prepared for the treatment of Tamara Ognjanović in that way and in this model of financing child treatment, to make our contribution, although we had not been able to resolve these issues systematically until then. The MPs themselves who represented the rule of law at that time said that they did not recognize at all that such a law should be passed because they were simply not recognizable categories of people with disabilities or children suffering from rare diseases, so they sort of solved these issues by ad hoc. For this reason, the general division of party and political opening of wounds in this way that some try to do so simply speaks about those people who want to launch this issue and to attack us who systematically resolve it, and we have resolved by bringing in 2014 the Fund Act to solve the issue of the treatment of funds from the budget for the treatment of rare diseases, and that paragraph 25 point 3 in Serbia's budget at any time can be seen how much it is and how much it is, and that in the commission that solves this issue, representatives of health institutions from the Republic of Serbia are sitting and simply solve these issues, and these children go to treatment and this payment is done through funding through certain associations, but also directly to the hospitals in which these children go away. So, the whole theme of treating children, diseases and playing with this guy's emotions in public that someone didn't do enough for these four years where 1,975 children went to treatment, and by then there were 45 children all treated from the budget of the Republic of Serbia showing one extremely irresponsible approach to this topic. Simply, it is no longer necessary to talk about how much someone has done, but how many children have gone away and found their peace by healing themselves from these diseases. So, if we say that in 2017 it was - 614, 2016 - 563, that we came from 45 children to 653 and that a total of 1,975 children were taken care of and as a state proved extremely responsible in one system way to solve this issue and that today it was a great pleasure to say a billion on the Finance Committee and a half of the dinars were given to treat children from rare diseases that are 7,000, and that we are pleased to have another 500 million according to the RFO plan, which has allocated these additional funds, we have a total fund of two billion dinars, then it's simply finished, put an end to this topic, in one extremely responsible way. Because everything else is a simple departure and an attempt to turn one light and the sun of the parents who are treating their children into darkness and to turn the inability of those who tried to deal with this topic by 2012 into an attack on people who have really dealt with this issue in a responsible way these four years. I would no longer discuss it at all, because what appears on social networks is really embarrassing and that should not be discussed at all and should not be given at all to these people, whether they are sitting in the congregation or not. So we ended up by saying how many children and parents really found a way to solve their problems and how the state is responsible for this. As far as law is concerned, a set of laws relating to environmental protection and this area is concerned, it should be said that what was inherited was a really big problem and should have been systematically resolved and the issue of the budget fund and that moment, the transitional period when all the finances were really to be consolidated, carried out a systematic fight in general with the spending of financial resources in one irresponsible way, i.e. to implement these economic reforms. It is known, then, that certain funds that went through the 2012 budget Green Fund were uncontrollable by the state. That one man made a decision that the board of directors who sat down had a billion dinars just to carry out certain marketing activities, that even the newspaper was funded from the fund. It's simply Serbia at that time, with over 200 credit lines, with a large public debt, with large funds to be given in social categories, could not endure. It's not true that the environment was shut down, she was with the Department of Construction at the time. So that was the model of those who ruled Serbia. So the building was put together in the same resource as the environment. So, economic reforms had to be carried out, it took time for certain EU directives to simply be implemented and adopted, to open negotiations with the EU and to create conditions for the real environment ministry to exist. In the end, the government of Alexander Vukic proposed and opened it. The possibility of professional people actually taking over that ministry has opened up. You've also taken over a lot of things as a minister, now you have the opportunity to, with certain legal changes, mean the part that applies to IPARD funds, to a boost in agriculture, to open up to IPA funds, which finance practically environmental protection projects. To increase the number of projects, i.e. agricultural landowners, to report to the IPARD competition, to simply insert and increase and encourage a number of companies and landowners to enter the processing industry and which will deal exclusively with the production of healthy food. It's not even a worthwhile job, let me tell you right now. Because, first of all, agricultural holdings to deal with the production of healthy food and all the standards that are sought through IPARD, means 100% subsidies, but they have to prepare this land for two years and finance such a thing to come into this situation to give these products. This is what the state has been working on, after all, and Serbia, for the last four years to be extremely responsible. Up to two hectares, it means agricultural holdings dealing with different types of agricultural production, financed from their fund, from the Agricultural Fund, from the Republic of Serbia's budget, over two hectares, are IPARD funds. The paperwork is very demanding. That's what all Serbian citizens need to know about and agricultural holdings. But some of the topics that we have opened in this debate are very interesting, especially when it comes to national parks, mini power plants, genetically modified food, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources. And now, those who are irresponsible are ultimately going to the ultimate limit of what you said, which is that the permits given to build a mini power plant should be annulled, driven away by those investors and asked a big question. I'm just going to tell you that the structure of obtaining a building permit for any renewable energy sources, so also for mini power plants is very demanding. From the energy permit issued by the Ministry of Energy to the Ministry of Environmental Protection issuing an environmental impact assessment. And, as someone who gives the condition to issue a building permit, it is also required to conduct a public debate in these local self-governments and local communities, so that citizens agree that there is no real threat to the environment on the spot to obtain such a permit. All those who received these permits from the ministry later also received construction permits if they met those conditions. If we want to be extremely correct and open, if you want to challenge any permission now, one, we must first be aware that the inspection has to make certain records in that it has not been implemented until the end of the building permit according to the project they have received. Two, if we really want to stop these investors in our business, which they have finished, we need to know that they have the right to refer to the court for a certain type of damage, and that Serbia's budget has to segregate those funds according to court rulings. So if you want to create an unstable investment climate, then you're going to act so irresponsiblely. That is what those who, for example, are asking political parties that are not for European integration. I understand that they can be against European integration, but I don't understand why they are against investors who simply create new values and employ people through a certain kind of investment in this area. I think what you said here might be worth considering what will be in the future, not what is the past, because you know very well what the damage to the past is. On the other hand, I'll tell you something else, President, Mr. Pahor, President of Slovenia, when he was a guest here in the Serbian Parliament and when those talks were at this parliamentary level, he had the opportunity to say that a huge mistake had been made by Slovenia, which immediately closed national parks for the example of renewable energy sources, as it prevented the flow of real investment, rather than relying too much on the banking sector at that time, because it was appropriate for them, because many things have simply been more difficult in that European path than they would have had the chance of simply entering a certain kind of longer negotiations with the EU. Well, step by step they applied their directives both in the field of energy and in the area of environmental protection, and much less cost them the introduction of a directive overnight. So, I think what we are doing step by step now is the right strategy when it comes to European integration. After all, and demanding Chapter 27. It is good that we have the development of renewable energy choices and energy efficiency and that the state has proved responsible, because there are, although it does not exist at the level of the Republic, but there are at all local self-governments, energy efficiency funds, so IPA funds can directly finance local self-government through these funds. Then, environmental protection, which is now a budget fund still, means there's a chance that it's filling from the IPA funds and that we're creating conditions for you to later on. We can use structural funds. I think Serbia is acting extremely responsible here. What it is, I'd like to finally tell you that we need to think about it and help the citizens in what you started, and that's the elimination of plastic bags. But I think you need to force the trade chains to find an adequate replacement at a given time. It's that the use of paper bags and cagers is really introduced substitutively at the same time. There can't be a few months' break, so people wear it in their hands, because you're creating a public conflict. I'll tell you that many citizens then wonder – and what we do, they don't just let those rules live at the same time, and then there's an otium in society that's what we do for money, not because we really want to protect, not just the environment, but also what are natural resources for future generations. You have the support of all of us to make certain changes, but in these changes you must be decadent and strong, especially when the direct application of these laws is in everyday life. In voting day, of course, we will support all these legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44911	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go, colleague Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44912	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, I support the bill on amendments to the Law on the protection of the environment because it is European, because it means easier access to our European funds, because it is beneficial for our citizens. What I would like to say, as a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, is some of my experiences from the previous period that I have when it comes to collecting municipal waste, the problems I faced, and I see that in some things, because you just mentioned something that I wanted to say and repeat, I agree with you, and that is – to approach the solution, we must absolutely educate the population. You just mentioned it. So, out of the smallest categories, we have educational institutions, they're children of four or five years of age, and then they access education, because there are no number of people who can clean up what we throw away, there are no bags that we can't put down in proper places and they don't pollute the environment, they don't fly in trees and green areas. Please, this country is beautiful, such as beautiful Germany, such as beautiful Switzerland, such as beautiful Slovenia, we just need to clean up the weeds and remove the waste from the field where we threw it. We have inadequate places, you are now in a position to solve it, because others have not done it. We've heard criticism here, and it even sounds like it's on your account, because in some place it's an unsettled dump, it's next to a river that's supposed to be the pearl of this country, not just that end. It was not placed there by ministers, but placed there by those people who were currently engaged, who had responsibility in the local self-government, in one and more. So yesterday, what you mentioned, I listened carefully, we don't do this job, we live this. That gives you confidence, Minister, that you're really going to solve the problem. You mentioned 21 dumps. We have 29 districts, 24 in close Serbia, with Kosovo 29. Let's solve every county for one dump, to make in other places a station transfer, as it exists in Europe, which looks like a smaller park, like half of this Assembly, arranged, real parks. This is where the truck first takes the measurements, and then dumps into bigger containers and transports to regional dumps. That way, given the circumstances, I got it, I made it possible for my community to get the funds for that. Unfortunately, those who came after me did not take advantage of the funds, and they were given by the Kingdom of Norway, 500,000 euros to make the transfer station, which was not used because there was a change in leadership. Please, so what's really important besides education, what I've been through and what I've seen working out well. So, in the community I came to at this time in 2004, I found a catastrophic situation in all areas. And then you start solving one problem at a time. First of all, for example, to solve the heating of the school, because the heating season is starting, and you don't even have a kilo of heating resources. While you solve it, while you solve problems, those who have lost the election, they decide how to further obstruct you. And I'm looking out the office window as the containers grow. I try to talk to people, they're mostly here in the meantime, and they hire their people to do it, and then I decide to trust someone who would in an appropriate way, calm down the situation, and we start solving the problem. A Serbian-German company came in after a legal procedure, brought in a complete mechanization, cleaned over a hundred dumps on its cost, brought funds, a bucket in every village household, bags for primary selection in the rural household, containers for disposal in the city. And what do you have in this situation? You've only got municipal waste to put in the bin, this is pure raw material. So, we don't have recycling, we don't have people we're gonna pay extra and they're messing around in that garbage to isolate what someone was throwing. These are the things we can do. So anyone now in a town putting away garbage can prepare bags to separate paper, glass, and plastics. That's three things I can do. Metal's got whoever's collecting, people are buying it and it's being cleaned up. We can do it, solve the environmental issue. When we educate people, they did it, and some generations gave fantastic results. The day-to-day they wear waste, if there's no trash, they wear it in their purses, they know that plastic bottles are crinkling to reduce its volume and immediately delay it in an adequate way. What happened? In order to protect the municipality, I asked, I insisted that a clause be put in the contract that unless we were satisfied with taking out the trash and cleaning out the city, we would break up the contract within a month, and if those who were doing the work were not satisfied, we would break up the contract in six months, so that we could find it. Those who came after me took advantage of it, that's all. First there was a media campaign on people. They didn't pay them to clean up the city, and they were the same prices as when our utility worked and then said they weren't doing it right. At that time, Minister Dulic, they brought in "Pore", and now we have a situation where the price was three euros, and now it's twice as high, so that everything is delayed in one bucket, carried to Jagodina. But what's left of the liquid? That the buckets in every village household are there. Listen, people have a place to put it off. No wild dumps or very few. It was the resistance of the first year, very difficult for people to make a selection in the household, so they say - I will not work for the German. So when he does, he takes it to the car and throws it by the road, but then when he remembers he's got a bucket there, he doesn't do it anymore. There are some things I wanted to signal, to suggest to you and to give you the confidence that these things are being resolved completely, but that through the Committee on Environmental Protection and through this Assembly we periodically say – now we are doing a dump in Smederev, in Pogorevec, I don't know which city, we have finished it, we have finished it, there are difficulties, there are obstructions, there are all kinds of things not to be done, but there is a big decision to do. What President Vukic showed as an example was the same with these investors coming, numerous investors. The same appears property-legal relations that are indecisive at the bar. When the government interferes, everything is quickly resolved, so you have to coordinate, in order to figure out what our priorities are. It's dumps all over the cities, it's bins all over the households, it's population education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44913	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not here. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44914	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we will agree that it is necessary for Serbia to have a clearly defined national strategy in the field of environmental protection, especially in the work of course, to finance this area. What is proposed by amendments and additions, it is proposed to allow the maximum use of the funds available to Serbia, above all I think of the funds from pre-accession funds. Here, in fact, a legal basis is being created so that our individual producers can even compete for these funds. The Republic of Serbia can benefit greatly from using these funds and it is a shame not to use it. It is true that the state of Serbia must allocate much larger resources to protect the environment, it is true that local self-government units must allocate much more resources to protect the environment, but it is also true that many units of local self-government can do much work with very little money. You said earlier that South Serbia is as important to you as the north of Serbia, as well as to me, since I represent citizens here from southern Serbia, in particular citizens of the Jablanic district and Leskovec, the city from which I come. I want to take the opportunity here to mention my city, the town of Leskovac, as an example of good practice for all of Serbia. Namely, the city of Leskovac from 2013 until today, every weekend, so on Saturdays and Sundays, it is working to clean up wild dumps and 250 wild dumps have been cleaned up for the past five years, with which 3200 tonnes of garbage and municipal waste have been carried away. What is important for citizens to know that the citizens of Leskovec do not cost anything, for the simple reason that "For Venus Webber", the Austrian company that we just had the opportunity to hear about, as a socially responsible company does not charge this service to the city, and public utility companies do as part of their regular activities this activity, and the citizens of local communities that take part in the weekend's activities as a labour force to contribute. During the summer months, we tried to do a pilot project in a local local community where the city financed the construction of 20 containers for plastics and for three months during the summer months, citizens of the local community delayed 1.5 tons of plastic bottles. The plan of the town of Leskovec is to provide funds in the next period and to place containers in each local community, because it is obvious that our project has had great success. While I'm talking about a case where we can clean up dumps without money, I can't help but remind myself of a time when the yellow company ruled Serbia and was under the password "Let's Clean Serbia" when millions of Serbian citizens were robbed. If we think of a time when the Ministry of Environment, while led by Oliver Dulic, paid five million for shoes, 1.8 million for clothing, 3.6 million for archiving some e-mails, therefore, for non-existent services. We understand who has a relationship to protect the environment. As regards the proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision amending the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018, what is important to say is that this decision increases funds for children suffering from rare diseases of 500 million dinars. Therefore, an additional 500 million dinars for rare diseases, aids, work leave fees are granted to 1.5 million funds identified for 2018. The point in the whole story is that the state of Serbia singles out an increasing amount of funds for treating children from rare diseases every year, and the fact is that by 2012, the state of Serbia has singled out zero dinars. So, in 2012, for the first time, the Ministry of Health has defined the means to treat children from rare diseases, and since 2012, this amount has increased several times every year. In 2014, 260 million were allocated, in 2015, 335 million, in 2016, 600 million, in 2017, 1,100 million, and now in 2018 with these changes that will be adopted by the state of Serbia will single out two billion dinars for children suffering from rare diseases. All we had the opportunity to hear in the previous days by opposition MPs is pure demagogy, because pure demagogy certainly is if the opposition MP said that in their time they had not singled out funds for the treatment of rare diseases, because at that time children and adults were suffering from rare diseases, a simple, unrecognizable group, and only with the adoption of the law became a recognizable group. It's just, I can tell you that it's a matter of later thought, and it's an honor to them. Thank you. Of course, in voting day, I and my colleagues will support all proposals that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44915	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. He's not here. The word has a folk ambassador, Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44916	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the top priority of the EU environment policy is the circulatory economy, eco-innovation, improving air quality. Chapter 27 of the environment and climate is one of the most complex and complex chapters in the negotiation process and covers a third of all EU legal flows that imposes the need for a clear national policy, especially in the area of financing planning and implementation dynamics. The aim of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment is to enable the use of the funds of the Green Fund to co-finance projects financed by EU pre-accession funds and meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. The proposed provision allows the issuing of acts by the ministry responsible for environmental protection tasks, which determines the fulfilment of the conditions in the field of environmental protection, and thus participates in the competition on agricultural holdings for the allocation of funds from IPARD funds. The amendments to the law are necessary to ensure the sustainability and stability of funding projects in the field of environmental protection in an effective way. The use of IPARD can be both legal and natural persons dealing with production or processing in the area of the food industry, which includes investment in the physical assets of agricultural holdings. It is also prescribed that users exercising the right to IPARD are encouraged from the area of agriculture and rural development in an obligation to meet the appropriate environmental protection conditions. The right to a healthy environment belongs to a corpus of regulated citizens' rights. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the right of every citizen to a healthy environment and to a timely complete notification of its condition. All countries of the region must act in harmony with nature because it is the only way to save the environment from degradation and thus ensure national economic security. It is important to cultivate habits that will provide a better world for future generations. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the bill and all proposals on the agenda in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-04-0.u44917	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Dusko Tarbuk, Stefana Miladanovic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue the joint principled single search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 6 of the agenda. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Goran Trivan, Minister of Environment Protection, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Ivan Karic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Slobodan Perović, Biljana Filipović Đušić, Jasmina Jović, Darko Komnenic, Sladjana Đukić, Andrej Bojić, Branislav Atanacković, Darinka Radojevic, Dusan Ognjević, Aleksandar Ognjević, Olivera Topalov, Nikola Maravić, Milorad Dubak, Vladimir Mihajlović and Marija Raičević. I'm now setting a 10-minute break until the motionary's authorised representative arrives at the session. Thank you.
