ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37305	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Natasa Mihajlović Vacic. We continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Dear People's MPs, National MP Dr Darko Laketic, based on Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the agenda of this session be placed on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as an impact on the environment with special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 22 May this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 143. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on to this agenda point. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision and I am asking the motionary, MP Dr. Darko Laketić, if he wants a word? Darko Laketić: No. Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word about this point? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37306	Thank you, Chairman. When we received a proposal for the members of the Commission we are discussing today, our doubts once again confirmed in the sincere intentions of the motions for the establishment of such a commission, that this commission in one objective and impartial way comes up with important answers that need to be addressed in the way that the Commission's decision is set out. We asked, when was the debate, also by an urgent procedure, why this urgent procedure, why is this very moment opening this topic, when certain conclusions already exist regarding this topic and the Commission formed by the Government. Here, today, we have received a proposal from the Commission that counts, as the proposing did not want to meet the fellow Members of Parliament alone, seven members, although it says in the decision that members of the Commission are representatives of parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. The parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament have much more than five, with only five parliamentary groups proposing members of the commission. The ruling majority could not have come out of this framework in which it has been working for six years, which is to provide itself with a majority, so we have three SNS members, one SPS member, the SRS parliamentary group, the Democratic Party and the Dvori. Other parliamentary groups were not even offered representatives to participate in the commission's work. We think it's a bad practice. If the practice in the past was that when we chose by Article 68. The Rules of Procedure of the members of the committees of inquiry and that, as a rule, representatives of all parliamentary groups always participated, I think that there was now room for the Commission's composition to be proposed in this way. What I think will be the biggest challenge to this Commission is to resist a public hysteria that exists on this subject, a public discourse that has been under way for some time. He noted one university professor, an epidemiologist, people who express suspicion, are called NATO mercenaries, and those who have very little or little to say about this topic or have almost nothing to say are called patriots. The Serbian medical society has also recognised this state of affairs in the public that the data that are public institutions, the institutions of this state that are responsible for monitoring the state of health of Serbian citizens, that these data are being misused, that space in the media is being given to people who know nothing about this issue and that a practical decision has already been made. In that sense, it is a great task for the members of this Commission not to succumb to these public pressures, but to objectively look at all the facts and to be told every six months by the decision itself, but I hope that this job will not last for several years so that we will not have many such progress reports, but that we will also get concrete conclusions in some time period. What, like this Assembly, or a member of this Assembly, I can only finally express regret that many other topics are not found to be properly addressed, topics that also affect the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, particularly greater and more widespread poverty in Serbia. Then, not to worry about the environment and the nature we live in and the nature we're supposed to live with. We don't talk about how they live and how they live for years, decades back, people of Pancheva, what kind of air they breathe, where toxic waste from the chemical and petrochemical industries is delayed? Why have we been late for the start of the decommissioning at the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant, and many other problems that are clearly threatening the lives and health of Serbian citizens and destroying nature. I hope that here in Parliament we will discuss these topics, as well as many other topics which opposition through the Institute of the Survey Committee or putting forward a proposal on the agenda of this Assembly, that we cannot get to that opportunity for years. In any case, I want the members of the Commission to succeed in their work, to accomplish that task that is put before them, but I repeat, the way in which this Commission has been formed by an urgent procedure and the way in which we today choose these members by emergency procedure and the way that this small step has not been taken to include all the interested MPs from the Serbian Parliament groups. The fact that as it has been done, let me say, media preparation of these topics and how they seem to give me answers already, I'm afraid the path to truth will be long and difficult. I want them to cross that path and continue to the end of that path and inform us in the right way about everything that is the subject of this Commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37307	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37308	Thank you. Just short and clear to explain to the public Serbia, which may have slightly forgotten in the last few days that there have been emergency procedures here on the very proposal for a decision that we have already adopted and which has been published in the "Official Messenger" and for this reason today and we can choose the members of this Commission. But when we see that from the very event of the bombing of Yugoslavia, it has been the full 19th year, then I cannot understand that one of the MPs has a dilemma in front of him when there is a sign of "the urgency of the procedure". If it's been 19 years, then I don't know how much longer we have to wait for a regular procedure. There's not a single grudge here that's been said. It even shows that it is not even read alone now, but rather the decision we adopted and published, because it does not say that all the parliamentary groups will be represented here. It's just a job to make it look like one commission, because we all know when they're 20-member bodies, you don't usually do anything about it. We had a role model, an Italian parliament, where only five of them were, and it led us to the fact that the parliamentary groups that are the loudest when they have to object to the composition of this Commission were very negative in their presentations on the general idea of forming one such commission on the investigation of the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999, that is one reason. The second reason is certainly that on their very absence and not voting, they have clearly put their political act and I understand the objections, just a desire to say something, not a fundamental regret that seven MPs will participate in this really serious work, the results of which are interested Serbian citizens. Of course, every three months we will receive a report on the work, every six months, I apologize, and in 2020 we will receive the first preliminary report, which will have the opportunity to discuss the co-operation of 250 MPs, those who agree and those who disagree with the formation of such a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37309	Thank you. The word has a colleague, Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37310	Thank you. The composition of the Commission, which is ahead of us, shows an oversight of the intention to write in the decision, identify the irrefutable facts, i.e. the truth about the causal link between the site of the missile impact with the impoverished uranium, which 81 are on Kosovo territory, nine in other parts of Serbia, one in Montenegro, and the consequence of the soil, air and water, and of course living tissue, both human beings, and animals. The establishment of irrefutable facts and truth implies that the Commission will identify the scientific facts of the truths that are verifiable, evidence and reoccurrence by investigating, by examining, examining, examining, taking into account documents, but of course by means of a direct order to carry out the tests. Since this is the Commission's task, it does not matter who has the majority in the Commission. There's no vote on scientific truths. If you intend to vote on something scientific, then the Commission's idea is missed. I hope that is not the case, but MP Marko Djurisic has the right and the point that the right of the promoter, of course, is to say that seven MPs are exactly what they need, and the obligation of all of us members, with the desire not to regret Mr Laketić because of his staff proposal for my membership in that list, I will not give him reason, but I know how scientific facts are determined. There's no reason to be an explanation that exactly seven or five or nine are what they're going to guarantee. On the contrary, if the whole idea of the Commission to determine the consequences of the bombing is to inform the public about the facts without strengthening propaganda, then it would be better if more people participated in the Commission. Of course they'll be on call. Of course there will also be MPs who will be able to attend sessions, as I see no reason for the Commission to work in Belgrade or anywhere in Serbia's territory to be closed and hidden from the public. On the contrary, this Commission exists for the public. I repeat, the view that it is important whether the ruling coalition has or does not have a majority in that Commission is meaningless if we are to establish scientific facts and the truth that we will then offer to anyone who wants to check on their territory or to check whether the fact is toxic, chemical, projectiles with poored uranium on soil, air and soil, especially live tissues, whether it is animal species, plant species or human species. I will take part in the work of the Commission and from these points of view that I share with you, to remove any suspicion, to believe that there can be anything that this Commission determines, and what will contribute to the propaganda that is all subject to, and to the very heart of the fact that the Commission has been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37311	Thank you. The word is proposed by Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37312	Thank you. Madam President of the National Assembly, dear fellow MPs, I owe a few explanations. As for the number of committee members, my experience, not with the commission, but in working with certain bodies that have a number of members, are such that the body can be operational if the number of members of that body is relatively smaller. Imagine a commission with 30 members, or 25 members. First of all, most often that number of members could not have been collected in one place. So, as far as the number of MPs proposed is concerned, first of all, it's about operationality. The other thing I'd like to say is the understanding of the Commission itself. The Commission will therefore be composed of MPs, but will also be composed of experts, representatives of relevant institutions that will help us to come to this scientific truth. In addition, the Commission's work will be transparent, not only in terms of reporting, the six-month report and the preliminary report listed in this proposal, but also in the Commission's work itself. So here, too, I don't see the problem. What is very important is the mention of some of my fellow doctors, who have attitudes that are contrary to other attitudes. I, of this place and at this point, would really not prejudge the outcome of the Commission's investigation, but on the other hand, the commission will definitely be open to all views, but exclusively which are scientifically justified and supported. That's the essential thing. So, the Commission's goal is just to get to the truth, and I'm going to tell you, therefore, that the Commission itself has the possibility of hearing witnesses, getting different information and reports, documents from state authorities, so all that we need, we will be able to have, so it will be available to us. Personally, I think that our work together in the fight for the truth, because our people deserve the truth, because the sick deserve the truth, that after research, hopefully, we can tell them -- yes, there were effects of these toxins, no, there were no effects of these toxins. I think it's the real thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37313	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37314	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I honestly didn't think there'd be any discussion about this. However, since colleagues have spoken from position and opposition, I must say a word too. So, as we did in the tide, when we talked about the formation of this Commission, the Serbian Dvora Movement will absolutely, with all its knowledge, advice and means available to assist the work of this Commission. I don't like why we're talking about some things that the Commission doesn't have to deal with at the beginning of the Commission. I don't like why my colleague says it's propaganda. Propaganda can be like this or something. There were stories about why now, not before. People, we have the fact that on 18 February 2018, therefore, three and a half months ago, the Italian Parliament made a decision that goes in this direction and greatly facilitates the work of this Commission. I am truly convinced that there is no person in Serbia, however political orientation belonged, that this issue is not of interest to her. The Commission is called the Commission, meaning it needs to determine the functioning of Serbia's citizens' health and environmental impact. It is then perfectly normal for the committee to be represented and chaired by the Committee on the Health of this Assembly and the president and representative of the Committee on the Environment of the Assembly. Personally, I am a member of this Commission and I am telling you that everything that is in my personal power and in the power of the political organization that I belong to will be directed against us not to remain in debt to generations that come after us, nor to be ashamed of those who have had any consequences. What the Commission's decision will be is something that time will show, but I really believe that no one in this House or anyone in this country should be prejudicial in any way. What we think we'll have a chance to say. The Commission, here, and Mr. Laketic said it will be maximum openness, we will call on professional people. We are representatives of some members of parliament, we do not consider ourselves uniquely professional on this subject, but we can contribute and help. Let it be true that all MPs, all political groups, no matter what they think, help the work of this Commission, that indeed decisions will be the way they need to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37315	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37316	Here, let's say a few words. You know that even in previous years, the SRS has always demanded and suggested that an expert commission be formed with such a task. I really don't understand those whose only argument is now whether against forming what was done late. It's better and it's later on than no brains, and it's better that a commission is formed today or what it's going to be, than that we've waited another five or ten years or whatever. It is clear that the criminal NATO pact, which bombed the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ at the time, committed the most terrible war crime, a crime against peace, because there is no worse crime than waging an aggressive war. The Serbian people in this bombing, of course, suffered gravely. I'm not just talking about human casualties, or direct victims, and civil and military and police. Despite the enormous material destruction, it is clear that the NATO Pact has left us with an extremely bad legacy by using the means of murder with the impoverished uranium. We are convinced that this is the reason for the expansion of malignant diseases in Serbia and we have one real boom about these diseases. The Serbian Radical Party has proposed Mr Dubravko Bojic as a member of the Commission. We are sure that he will professionally and responsibly do the job, that he will, above all, do it in the interests of Serbian citizens and in Serbia's interest. For the SRS, it is of the utmost importance that the truth finally becomes known. I don't need that, I should say, a group of people to be too big and that argument that anyone who has created a five-member group should have and a representative simply doesn't stand. The Serbian Radical Party has always represented the view that not the parliamentary group smitten with wagons and ropes should have a representative, but that only lists, election lists qualified by the people's will in the elections, to join the National Assembly, have the right to expect tomorrow and participate in the polling committees, whether they have vice-presidential seats or committee seats. Those who play the will of the people, those who gather five, six, seven parties before the elections, even though they have spoken the worst of each other by then, so after the elections, they are again divided by parliamentary groups, cannot demand the rights that have political parties that go out on their own to win enough trust for Serbian citizens to cross the election censorship. So, once again, the Serbian Radical Party will support the formation of this polling committee. We have nominated Mr Dubravko Bojic and we hope that others, like him, will join the work and determine the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37317	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37318	Thank you. I didn't expect there to be any debate about this at all, but let me just repeat the one I said and in a two-day debate on the decision to form this commission. So, personally, my colleagues and I don't have any reservations about this initiative. I'd be happy to vote, and I voted for its formation. Of course anyone, and especially the opposition, can have some reservations, either about the composition of a personal member of the commission, whether it's about intentions, motives, but whatever it is and whatever that reserve is, I say and repeat, it can't be a reason to be against it. It is precisely because of the importance of the topic, because of the consequences of which a large number of citizens of this country are drawn from this bombing, any physical, health, psychological trauma, in any case, so those who were children and who were adults, have remembered that time and those days and everything that would lead to lighting, but the real lighting of the facts about it can be useful whenever it comes and how late. As far as motivation is concerned, I said that whatever the motivation of the promoter is, and we have seen and heard, that it probably also coincided with this conclusion and finally published findings of the Italian Commission, their Senate, so it probably inspired our promoters and our initiative for a long, long time. So this should be supported, and what I have appealed for, and what I see at least in the first part is respected, or respected by the promoters, is to be presidents and the authorities of the opposition. Of course, in order for us to like someone else, perhaps a slightly different composition, could possibly have been more representatives and members of parliament on this committee. It is much more important than who sits in it, perhaps more important who will be invited to give their opinions to both institutions and individuals. So this first part of my appeal is to be both a representative of the government and the opposition is respected, at least in principle. I have no objection to that, and the second part of the appeal remains, I think that is also mentioned by my colleague Djurisic, that those who dispute what is the dominant view of the public and that I share the opinion, that the consequences are significant, large. How big is it to be determined by the Commission, but not to turn it into some witch hunt, into some media hack and tarrapan, which will only last as long as the authorities respond for some day-to-day political interests. As I said, it's too important a subject, too painful a subject, that it should be part of a political struggle, either here in parliament or then in public. In the sense that the government asks the opposition - what did you not form when you could? And the opposition asks, "Why do you suggest now, when you are about to do not know what, betray the Kosovos or something else?" So, we should give as much support as we can for political and media, and I, as I said, urge the members of the Commission to do their work carefully, scrupulously and, as I say, to hear voices in the work of the Commission and those who are critical and skeptical of this data on major harmfulness, as well as, of course, those who feel that the damage is great. And, last thing, as far as any motivation is concerned. Whatever it is, as I said, motivation should support it, if and as an MP of the opposition who undoubtedly continues to oppose the current government, if it turns out that some of our doubts have been established and if it turns out that this story about the Commission will somehow fall into oblivion, which I hope it will not, it will go to the soul of the proposing and the ruling majority. I hope it doesn't happen, and that's why, in any case, I'm going to vote with pleasure for its formation and its composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37319	Thank you. As there are no more reports of a word, I conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 25 May 2018, starting at 10.45 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the 25th agenda of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the Commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing in 1999, according to the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the environmental impact, with particular reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 152, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. How we conducted a search on the agenda from 1st to 24, according to Article 87(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 25 May 2018, starting at 10.46 p.m. as Voting Day on Points 1 to 13 of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Before we move to decision-making, I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 132 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for voting. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – no one, abstentioned – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37320	I conclude the vote: no one is against us, none of the abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one is against us, none of the abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one is against us, none of the abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one is against us, none of the abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one is against us, none of the abstentions. I find this amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 which were submitted in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Vladan Zagradian. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Daniela Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Novaca Tonchev. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for - four against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for - 10, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for -15, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for -16, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for -17, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for -17, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for -17, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for -eight against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for -22, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for - six, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for -18, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for -eight against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for -11, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for -15, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for -20, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for -19, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for -17, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for -25, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for -16, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for -11, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for - 10, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 24, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 2 submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Danica Bukvic and Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for five against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatush. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP of the people, Serb Slav Fiipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 3 and Article 3 submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 3 which were submitted to the same text by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Mr Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: no one with abstentions is available for -jnjsN, v-n-n-n-n-n-n-no-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n-n. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Dragisic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zeljko Sušec. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of Article 4 and Article 4 submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Ivan Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Novaca Tonchev. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37321	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 118. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 123 for – 11, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 for – four against – the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 129 for – five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Mr Igor Becic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 for – four against – the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 125. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 for – four against – the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 129 for – five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 129 for – five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 123 for – 10. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the MP general, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 120. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 121. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 130 for – four against – the abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 121 for – 13, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 120. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 125. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 123 for – 11, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstention – has voted 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 for – 15. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 125. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention – four – no one who is abstention – no one who has voted – 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 122. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not voted – 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one who has not voted – 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstention – has, has not voted – 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one with abstentions has voted for – 15 against – 121. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – seven, against – no one who is abstention – no one has voted – 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa St Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 120. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, no one who has voted. 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 129. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 129. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – no one voted. 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – no one voted. 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – no one voted. 131. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of Members 5 and Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th Amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of Article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MPs to Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Filip Stojanovic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The names above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were submitted by four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The name of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of members 12 and Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On behalf of Article 14, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The name of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 16 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 18 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branka Stamenkovic and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 23 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above Article 24 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 25 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title above article 26 was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, with abstention, voted 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you that Article 27 provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for 132 Messengers of the people, against whom no one, abstentioned, has three messengers of the people, there are none who have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a draft law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted for – 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the amendment's first amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Marina Ristic and Milorad Mircic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Bozidar Delic and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Petar Jojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 9th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the SRS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. For technical reasons, we'll have to take a break. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 19th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and five MPs of the Serb Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Bozidar Delic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 28th of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 32nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and six MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Bozidar Delic and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Marina Ristic, Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 38th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 40th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 41st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 42nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 43rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 44th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 45th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 46th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 47th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 48th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serb Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 52nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 53rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 55th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 56th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 59th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 60th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 62nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party and five MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and five MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I am closing the vote and I am saying - no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 126, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. We are moving to the 3rd point of the agenda - Proposal for a law on registration of the immovableity and water cadastre. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on enrollment procedure in the equities and water catalogue, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 127 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the joint MPs of Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Momcilo Mandic and Aleksandra Belacic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 14th of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 16 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the 19th amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 21st amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric and Petar Jojic together submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 22 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 23 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and Ruzica Nikolic jointly submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 26 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS group, the NS and the joint MPs of Vjerica Radeta and Aleksandra Belačić, submitted a correction. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 27 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 28th of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 29 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 32 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 33 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 34 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 35 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 38 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 37 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 38 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 43rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Prophets Radet and Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 46th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 47th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 48th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, People's Party and together MP Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, together with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 50th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 52nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 52nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 53rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 56th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric and Ruzica Nikolic submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and the joint MPs of Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric, submitted a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 59th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the Verica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 60th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Prophets Radet and Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 62nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 63rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on enrollment procedure in a cataster of immovableity and waterways, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 128 against. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law on enrollment procedures in the housing and water cadasar. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Transport of Freight in Drums Co-operation Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of freight in road transport, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – has voted two out of the 129 MPs present, I find that the National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the amendment's 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of freight in road transport, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for two MPs of the total of 133 present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on the transport of goods in road transport. We move to the next 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers and road traffic, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 MPs, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted for two MPs of the total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeto. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the amendment to Article 4 of the amendment submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic, four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, voted 133th People's Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 20th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted two MPs of the total attendance of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE TRADE LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote on travel laws in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, abstentioned – one, is the vote of three MPs from a total of 133 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. To the title above Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 130 of the total attendance of the 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37323	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 6 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 7 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 9 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 10, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 11 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 12, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 14 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 17, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 18, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 20, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 21, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 22, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 23, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 24, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 25, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 26, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 28 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 29, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Gorica Gajic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 30, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 32, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 33, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 34, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 35, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 36, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 37, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 38, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 39, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 40, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 41, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 42, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 43, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 44, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 45, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 46, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 47, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 48, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 49, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 50, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 51, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 52, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 54, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 55, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 56, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 57, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 58, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 59, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 60, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 61, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 62, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 63, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 64, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 65, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 66, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 67, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 68, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 69, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 70, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 71, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 72, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 73, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 74, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 75, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to personally and on your behalf to welcome the President of the Interparliamentary Union Assembly, Mrs Gabriel Baron, who is today's meeting of the National Assembly from the gallery and please welcome her with a round of applause. We'll continue with further work. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 76, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 77, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 78, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 79, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 80, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 81, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 82, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 83, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 84, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 85, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 86, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 87, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 87, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, adding after article 87 a new member of 87a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 88, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 89, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 90, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 91, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 92, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 93, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 94, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 95, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 96, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 97, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 98 submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 98, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 99, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 100, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 101, which was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 101, which, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 102, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 103, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 104, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 105, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 106, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 107, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 108, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 109, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 110, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 110 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 110 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 111, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to Article 111 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 112, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting amendments to article 112 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 113, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 114, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 115, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 116, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 117, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 118, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 119, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 120, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 121, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 122, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 123, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill on the bill of travel, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on roads. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft law on railways to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 134, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 3, which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 6 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 7 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 8 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 9 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find the amendment not accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting to vote amendments that add the name of members and members of 10a after Article 10a, together with the MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 11 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 12, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 13, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on article 14, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 17, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 18, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 20, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 21, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 22, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 23, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 24, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 25, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 26, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 28, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 29, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 30, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 32, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 33, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 34, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 35, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 36, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 37, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 38, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 39, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on the 40th, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 41, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 42, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 43, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 44, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 45, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 46, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 47, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 48, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 48 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 49, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment to Article 50, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 51, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 52, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 53, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 54, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 55th vote tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 56, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 57, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 58, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 59, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 60, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 61, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 62, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 63, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 64, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 65, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 66, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 67, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 68, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 69, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 70, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 71, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 72, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 73, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 74, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 75, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 76, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 77, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 78th vote tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 79, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 80, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 81, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 82, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 83rd vote tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 84, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 85, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 86, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 87, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 88, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 89, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to a vote on Article 90, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 91, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 92, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 93, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 94, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 95, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 96, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 97, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 98, which were submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 99, which were submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 100, which were submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 101, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 102, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment to Article 103, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to Article 104, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to a vote on Article 105, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 106, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 107, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 108, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 109, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 110, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 111, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 112, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 113, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 114, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to a vote on Article 115, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 116, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 117, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 118, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 119, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 120, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 121, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 122, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 123, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 124, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 125, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendment on Article 126, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 127, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 128, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 129, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 130th vote, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 131st vote in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 132 which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 133, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 134 which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 135th vote, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment on the table of Article 136, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 137, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 138th vote, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendment to a vote on Article 139, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 140th vote, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 141 which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 142, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 143, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 144, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 145, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 146, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to vote on Article 147, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on railways, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on the railways. We move to the eighth item of the agenda – the proposal for a safety law in the railways. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the draft safety law on rail traffic, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37324	We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions among the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeto.. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 14th of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions among the 131 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions among the 132 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 28th of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 32nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 130. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 members of the people who are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 46th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 47th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 48th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 130. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has a total of 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 53rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 54th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 55th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 56th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 129. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 57th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 58th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 59th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 60th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 62nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 66th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 67th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 68th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 69th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 70th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 71st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 72nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 73rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 74th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 75th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 76th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 77th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 78th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 79th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 80th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 81st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 82nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 83rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 84th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 85th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 86th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 87th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 88th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 89th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 90th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 91st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 130 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 92 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom the abstentions are, has a total of 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 94th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 95th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 96th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, from a total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 97th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 98 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against them, has any abstention, of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 99th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, from a total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 101st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 102 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 103 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 104 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 105th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 106th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 107th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 108th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 109th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 110th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 112 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 114 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 115th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 116 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom the abstentions are, has a total of 132 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 117 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 118th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 119th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 120th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 121st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 122 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 123rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 124 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention, of the total presence of 132 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 125th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, of the total attendance of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 126 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, of the total attendance of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 128th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, of the total attendance of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 129th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 131st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 132 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 133th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 134th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I'm putting the draft safety law on rail traffic in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted for three MPs from the total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a safety law in rail traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-25-0.u37325	We're moving to agenda nine. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the interoperability of the railway system, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to the name of the law passed by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Seselj and MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Velačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 3 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 6 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 7 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 8 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 9 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 11 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 12, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 13 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 17, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 18, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 20, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 21, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 22, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 23, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 24, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 25, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 26, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 27, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 28, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 29, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 30, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 31, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 32, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 33, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 34, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 35, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 36, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 37, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 38, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 39, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 40, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 41, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 42, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 43, which was submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 44, which was tabled in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put to vote the draft law on the interoperability of the railway system, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, has passed a bill on the interoperability of the railway system by the majority of votes. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the central record of real owners in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, has, and I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by majority vote. I put the amendments to Article 1, which were submitted to the same text by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 2, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I would like to put the amendment to article 4 tabled in the same text by MPs Nikola Savic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Sreto Peric, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for the amendment on Article 6, which was tabled in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 7, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 8, which was tabled in the same text by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 9, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Petar Jojic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 10, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to article 11, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 12, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 13, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Momcilo Mandic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Bozidar Delic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the SDS, NS. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 15, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Zoran Despotovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 16 submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, in the same text. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 17, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the 18th vote, which was tabled in the same text by MPs Marina Ristic, Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the draft law on the Central Record of Real Owners, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the Central Record of Real Owners. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON TRANSFERATION AND IMPLEMENTATION After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and renting immovable property, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Sreto Peric and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 2 submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Aleksandar Seselj and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Momcilo Mandic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Nemanja Sarovic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and renting immovable property, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no – there are no, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Intermediation Act and the lease of immovable property. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON TERRORISM TERRORISM TERRORISM Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no – there are no, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 1 submitted jointly by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Bozidar Delic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 1 which was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 2, which was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 3, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic, together by Nemanja Sarovic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 4 submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 5, which was submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Despotovic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 6 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Filip Stojanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Verica Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find the amendment not accepted. I am putting amendments to article 7 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 134, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no – there are no, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were tabled by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 2 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 3 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendments have not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 4 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 5, which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which has been tabled by the seven Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 6 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 7 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 8 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 9 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I put it to a vote, amendments, on Article 10 which are in the same text, submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendments. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I remind you it's Article 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, provided that this law enters into force the following day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Law on traffic safety on the roads. Now we move on to decision-making on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 16 May at 10 pm and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session of 16 May at 11pm and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 16 May at 15:00 and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 17 May at 12 pm and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session of 16 May at 11pm and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 17 May at 13:00 and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, at a session on May 18 at 12 pm and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on May 21st at 16pm and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on May 21st at 16pm and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on May 22nd at 11pm and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sreto Peric, at a session of 23 May at 13pm and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 23 May at 14:00 and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on May 21st at 16pm and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 23 May at 15:00 and 26 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(8). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradovic, at a session on 24 May at 12 pm and 1 minute, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. I conclude the decision: for – four, against – one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018.
