ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-20-0.u40375	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 136 MPs present in the hall and that we can continue to work. We move to a decision on the draft laws in points 1 to 9 of the agenda of this session. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, in principle. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 139 against – one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 139, v – one, abstention – no one. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Danica Bukvic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MPplatmir Stevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Finalising vote: yes – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, for seven, against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, for seven, against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, for seven, against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. Zvonimir Djokic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Vesna Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Duško Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Goran Pekarski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Dragana Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Tiana Davidovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. No amendment accepted. Snezana Petrović submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Ognjen Pantovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Vlado Babic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. No amendment accepted. Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. No amendment accepted. Serbia's Filipovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Oliver Ognjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. No amendment accepted. Sonja Vlahović submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. No amendment accepted. Jovica Jevtic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Zarko Bogatinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. No amendment accepted. Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. No amendment accepted. Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Blaž Knezevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Desanka Repac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Dragan Savkic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Branimir Rankić submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Milija Miletic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Mike. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. No amendment accepted. Zivan Djurisic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. Branko Popovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-20-0.u40376	I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihajilo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Mariana Maras. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to vote the amendment, in the same text, on Article 2 submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Danica Bukvic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 2 submitted jointly by the MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivakovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatash. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janjosevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: no one, self-sustained, for seven, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 3, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs of Vjerica Radet and together by Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milisav Petronijevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dejan Radenkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Djordje Milicevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which LJibuška Lakatos MPs have put the vote to the vote: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, is there. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 4 which, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs of Vjerica Radet and together Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Bosko Obradovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marija Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Radojicic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miladin Ševarlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Shormaz. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Milekic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Goran Pekarski.. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the peoples by the MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Katarina Rakic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the peoples by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of Parliament of Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of Parliament of Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Ivan Manojlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples, MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the peoples of MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mihajlo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Zelig. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-20-0.u40377	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, who is abstentioned, voted for—13, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, five MPs from the SDS, NS and five MPs from the Free MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by MP Marjana Marash. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 135 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four, none of the messengers of 139. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Marjana Marash. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – six, against – there is no one who has not voted for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 27th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zika Gojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Marjana Marash. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zika Gojkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Neđo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for—131 people's messenger. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 41st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on State Administration After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted eight out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the State Administration Act. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BOOKS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Parent Books, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 140 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, among the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the amendment 42nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 15 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Parent Books. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC AGENCY Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Agencys, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 16 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the amendment law, in the same text, MP Filip Stojanovic and MP Bozidar Delic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf members of the Serb National Minority from Pakrac and Karlovac County, as well as representatives of the Directorate for Co-operation with Diaspora and Serbs in the region of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Zoran Despotovic tabled this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav LJubenović and LJljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the People's Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic submitted the 13th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic together submitted the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Aleksandra Belačić, Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav LJubenović and LJljana Mihajlovic and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Parliamentarians Petar Jojic, Momcilo Mandic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic together submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanović and Bozidar Delic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, from the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Despotovic together submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Agencyes, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by 10 MPs, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Agencyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-20-0.u40378	Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft bill on salaries of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote: for— 135, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title above article 1 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, in the same text, tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 3 submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to the title above article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments proposed by Dubravko Bojic to delete Articles 11 and 12. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments proposed by Tomislav LJubenović to delete Articles 15 and 16. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 17 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 18, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on article 19, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 21, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 to the vote, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 28 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 29 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft bill on salaries of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted, nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a bill on salaries of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – five abstentions – there is no, no vote – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 1 tabled by six MPs of the Liberal-Democratic Party Group - League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - SDA Sandzak. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 2 which is six of the MPs of the Liberal-Democratic Party – League of Social Democrats Vojvodina – SDA Sandzak. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP Group, LSV, SDA Sandzak. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP Group, LSV, SDA Sandzak. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP Group, LSV, SDA Sandzak. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 7th vote, which was tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LDV-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP - LSDV - SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP - LSDV - SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 10, which was tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LDV-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LDV-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 11, which has been tabled by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14 which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 14 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP - LSDV - SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 15, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP - LSDV - SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 19, which was tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LDV-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19, which has been tabled by seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 20th vote, which was tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LDV-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 21 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 24 that have been submitted by the People's MP Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 24 that have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 24 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP - LSDV - SDA Sandzak parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 29, which has been tabled by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 35, which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 40th floor table of the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote, which has been tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 41, which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 41, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 41, which was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 42 which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 42, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 43, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 43, which have been tabled by six MPs of the LDP-LSV-SDA Sandzak Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 49 tabled by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to the 50th floor table of the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, in general. I conclude the vote: four MPs did not vote for – 135 against – three abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities by majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, in principle. I conclude the vote: four MPs did not vote for – 135 against – three abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 5, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 7 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 10, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 11, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 12, which have been tabled by seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 15, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 16 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 17, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which has been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19, which has been tabled by seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – three abstentions – there are no, no three votes. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – three, with abstention – no, no two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the seven MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – three, with abstention – no, no two. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted five. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – there are no, abstentions – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. I would like to remind you of the provision of Article 103(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of Parliament to the infringements of Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a request, be declared in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Prof. Vojislav Seselj, at a session on June 12, 2018, pointed out at 11 o'clock and 24 minutes to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, at a session on 13 June 2018, pointed to the violation of article 107 at 11 o'clock and 8 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on June 13th 2018, pointed to a 27th member's injury at 11 o'clock and 11 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 13 June 2018, pointed to a violation of Article 103 at 11 o'clock and 34 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 13 June 2018, pointed to a violation of article 106 at 17 hours and 30 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 13 June 2018, pointed out at 17 o'clock and 45 minutes to the violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 15 June 2018, pointed to a violation of Article 27 at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Alexander Chabrai, at a session on 15 June 2018, pointed to a violation of Article 104 at 16 hours and 15 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 18 June 2018, pointed to a violation of article 108 at 13 hours and 13 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the decision: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
