ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47502	A year ago, we had our last session in the National Assembly about the economy of the Republic of Serbia, when we last discussed how to subsidise foreign companies that get very favourable conditions in Serbia, land free of charge, all possible permits free of charge and plus more than 10,000 euros per job. It is a devastating economic policy imposed by the IMF, which has been the real master of the Serbian economy for 18 years. In this regard, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister of the government and the Ministry of Economy should make an analysis as soon as possible and go public with how many foreign companies that have received the conditions in terms of subsidies, where some of them were larger than 10,000 euros, are left to work in Serbia after spending money from subsidies and how many individual companies have been retained? We had a situation where Jelizara Smederevo returned to the Republic of Serbia for one dollar, and we praised these investments in time, and there are other examples. And instead of watching on television just opening a factory, setting up a cornerstone for some future factories, let us know the real truth of how much damage the Republic of Serbia's economy has suffered because of this devastating economic model of subsidisation? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday a German Parliament MP was in Belgrade and conveyed Angela Merkel's message, a message from the EU and a message from Germany, very clearly and precisely -- the Republic of Serbia cannot enter the EU until it recognises de jure, independence so-called. ‘hairs’. This is clear to all, except for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic. It's something these people have been talking about for years. We had Andreas Shokenkoff, who was in this role until five years ago, also with the same demands coming to Belgrade and nothing has changed. Don't lie to ourselves anymore when we talk about progress on the way to the EU, when we talk about opening chapters, there's nothing to it, it's all a colorful lie, it's only important for Germany, for the EU, that the Republic of Serbia recognises Kosovo's independence as soon as possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia should go public with its position to say whether it is ready to sign a comprehensive agreement that would allow so-called. "Kosovo" place in the UN, or it is not the position and policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's settle this one more time. How long do we go around thinking that it's important that we have some praise from the EU, the opening of chapters? It doesn't matter. Recently, the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, was in Moscow. After meeting with the Russian president, he said he had received everything he asked for Serbia from Russia. We'll never know, probably, what it is, but I'm curious about what it will do with a question that has already been current for the past five years, which is giving diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis? Is it possible that we are asking Russia to seek protection in the Security Council, to seek support, to seek investment, and we are unable to provide the people who saved us, to save our citizens in 2014 during the floods and during the fires, to grant them diplomatic status and thus show respect for the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47503	I thank my colleague Seselj. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47504	The first question is asked by Prime Minister and Vice President Zorana Mihajlovic, who is in charge of traffic. It concerns the Memorandum of Construction of the Moravia Corridor, which was signed a week or two ago with the US firm Bechtel. It is 110km and the Memorandum says it will cost over 800m euros. That means over seven and a half million euros per km, which is five to six times the price of highways being built in our region. Of course, in that better part of our region. Also, we have a statement by the Minister of Traffic of 2012 at the time, but this is the same government, the same coalition, which then said that it was negotiated with a Chinese road-building company, with a Chinese loan, where the price was supposed to be slightly below 500m euros, which means about four and a half million per km in debt. The difference is dramatic. The difference is 60% higher and my question, one of the questions is how is it possible in five or six years to collect road construction only in Serbia? Everywhere in the world prices fall, except in Serbia they grow. I ask the Prime Minister, vice president in charge of traffic, have they heard of anything called a tender, that when something big is built, to call a domestic or international tender, in this case it is logical to make it an international tender and then to collect the most favourable offers? I had contacts with the top of Bechtel 15 years ago, when there was an attempt to include our firms in rebuilding Iraq, which was done by Bechtel on behalf of America. Something was done here, not much success, but then I was told that they never participated in the tenders, and therefore any co-operation with them was impossible at the time. Why would we cooperate with someone who doesn't want to work through a tender? It's the same question for the two ladies mentioned - the president and the vice president of the government. Otherwise, Bechtel was doing highways across Croatia, so there was a minister and prime minister there who went to jail for these roads, and there was also controversy about the construction of roads and the same form with their European partner in Albania and Kosovo. So I expect answers to these questions. Why isn't there a tender? Why have we chosen Bechtel, and why is the price more than twice as high than normal for such construction? The second issue concerns crime and also has to do with the top of the government, and that is why I am asking both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior. It's been known for a long time that cheerleading groups, under quotes, mean not real fans, but the peaks of some cheerleading groups, have been encumbered in deep crime. There's drugs, there's extortion, there's murder, there's all that's called the worst kind of organized crime. Of course, there is no organized crime that is such that has nothing to do with the government, whether it's the police, the judiciary or the very top of the executive authority. I ask the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister - is it true that a good part of these cheerleading groups, or their bosses, are in direct contact with the top of the government, with people from the immediate environment of the president of the state, the Prime Minister and some ministers? In many media outlets, after the arrest, which was fifteen days ago, news has surfaced that one of the arrested, and for which there are also photographs, is a good friend of one person who is from the immediate surroundings of the president of the state. I'd like to know if the investigation has come up with information that defines their relationship, what they're doing together and why they're doing it and if it's punishable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47505	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47506	Thank you. I will rely on these easier, in quotes, topics - sports and entertainment, at first sight, and my question goes to the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Ministry of Sports and concerns one event that has filled us all, surprisingly and for change, and with pride and joy, it is the success of our volleyball team at the World Cup. It's something everyone welcomed and, of course, the executives stood out in congratulations, in receptions, the head of state got both medals and the like. It is wonderful and beautiful and it is commendable to people who are still seriously working in some institutions and in some segments of this society. But I ask two competent ministries, of course REM, who should be directly in charge and in charge of the topic – why did the state television not transfer our volleyball teams, and not just volleyball and independent of whether or not they will take the gold or silver medal? There are not too many of these sports in which Serbia is successful. It is the obligation of the Public Service, when it does not already fulfil other obligations under its jurisdiction, above all, in the information sphere, to be equally represented, to have all options represented politically, to inform objectively, but to become a service, to assist one party and one man. If that information sphere of its obligation, legal and institutional, doesn't realize or do it badly, then why doesn't it at least function here? It will be said that there were no funds, which, of course, is not true, because it is relatively small sums. It's about relatively modest sums. On the side that at least for the final games you could easily find a sponsor. Just one request, one phone call or one intervention by the president of the state, who normally likes to comment on everything and to make a statement, and then to boast and wheeze about these successes, would certainly be sufficient. Just for one series, as we've been informed, a man of close authority, an artist of close authority, the public service has singled out almost a million euros in the previous period and again about that much? Why couldn't a much, much smaller sum have been found to transmit not only this event, but the otherwise competition of the team? The League of Champions is another thing, no matter what we like to watch it, and it's already commercial and expensive toys and, I say, they're being transferred somewhere, they're not being transferred to public services, but the game teams would have to. The second issue goes to the address of the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture and now concerns the already legendary and consequent prices of gasoline and oil derivatives in the country of Serbia. There have been many words about it, we had direct promises to do something about it, but of course, when the protests stopped last spring, it was all forgotten and pushed under the carpet. The price of oil derivatives is higher in Serbia today than it was in the spring, when both the energy minister and the agriculture minister promised something. What does that mean? Let's figure things out first. First of all, I mean, we say the price of gasoline, but it's actually the price of diesel, which is definitely the most expensive in the region. When we recalculate incomes and expenditures and the prices and receipts of our citizens, then all derivatives are among the most expensive in Europe, but when it comes to diesel, it is literally the most expensive in the environment, even without recalculating our incomes. The particular problem is that most of our cars, which our people drive, are actually diesel cars, spend diesel, and the particular problem is that diesel is used and used exclusively in agriculture. So why, as in some countries in the region, no so-called A blue diesel or a discount for farmers, as was the case? Why is it waiting for the agricultural season to pass, and then maybe something will be done in that sense? Why doesn't the state give up at least part of its excise or at least tax, VAT on the excise paid on diesel? It's said here, but it has to be repeated, more than half the prices of our diesels we pay are actually taxes to the state. So, you can't take it out and cover that the price of oil on the market is rising, because we don't have those oil derivatives going down when the price of oil on the world market is going up, and when it's growing, then you say, what do we do, we have to collect because it's costing oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47507	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47508	Thank you. The first question is asked by the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the interior minister to Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic. In February 2018, Serbia entered a bad society, i.e. on the "black list" of FATF, countries suspected of money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing. The only country from all over Europe on the list is Serbia. During the year, we had promises and prime ministers, and of course Minister Nebojja Stefanovic, that by the end of June or by the end of the summer in the worst case, the shortcomings will be eliminated and that Serbia will be removed from the "black list" of FATF. In particular, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic personally promised me here on April 12th this year that by the end of the summer all shortages will be met and that Serbia will no longer be suspected of financing terrorism and money laundering. Meanwhile, two audits by the interstate institution were carried out both in June and now on October 19th, and Serbia remains on the blacklist of countries suspected of financing terrorism, corruption and money laundering after the latest audit. Meanwhile, in October, they removed Iraq and Vancouver from the list, and Serbia remained in association with Ghana, Syria, Pakistan and Ethiopia. I ask the question – will the prime minister and minister Nebojsa Stefanovic resign because they have made a public promise and then Minister Stefanovic asked me to publicly praise the government when Serbia is removed, by the end of the summer, from the list. I said I'd accept that. Since that didn't happen and I won't be able to praise the government, I now invite him to resign, because it's the only moral act after such a debacle. I also ask a second question to a minister named Sinisa Mali, one of the newest ministers, who, coming to the post of Finance Minister, began to falsify anything that came within his reach. That is how we saw that the public debt began to decrease without delay and how – on 1 October 2018, the Republic Statistics Institute made a decision overnight to increase the revenues of the Republic of Serbia by two and a half billion euros, i.e. the budget, thus bringing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all of us into error that the public debt was reduced by 60%, as it was in June of this year, to 56%, overnight. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia in absolute terms today is 24.1 billion euros. You're in charge of the first six months of this year 800m euros. So there's no talking about any public debt cuts. You're fluctuating the truth for using these things in the political propaganda you've been carrying out for six years. You lie to the citizens of Serbia and every day you push your hand deeper and deeper into their pockets. So, if the public debt is reduced, it means we're in debt and we're back with some of the money. We can't say we're in debt and the debt hasn't fallen. Since the arrival of the SNS and your pink coalition, you have entrusted the Republic of Serbia and its citizens with 10 billion euros. With 15 billion in 2012, today it is 24.1 billion euros, to this day. In parallel, you are yelling skin with the back of Serbian citizens through excises and through expensive oil derivatives and increasing cost of life. So at the beginning of this year, the euro diesel was about 150 dinars, today it's 175 dinars. Through VAT on that fuel, through the collection of other groceries, you bring citizens to the beggar stick and to all pensioners and to those you raise salaries you will take through excises, through taxes and taxes that you increase from day to day and again put you to boast, in your black limos, in your chairs, in your colleges where you teach and thus mock the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also call on Minister Sinisha Malo to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47509	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47510	Thank you. I'd like to ask one question right from the end of our midst. Since we had almost a law, where was our Minister of Ecology, where we talked about environmental problems, I would now ask the Ministry of Ecology and the competent sector for emergency situations. In particular, it concerns the decommissioning of radioactive thunderbolts located in the territory of the city of Nis. Otherwise, we are witnessing that a large number of our citizens have a lot of health problems, we are witnessing that these problems do not know what they come from, but we would like to know. As we know that in 2009, a Law on protection against ionic radiation was adopted, under which the provision that all radioactive thunders must be demonized by the end of 2014, I have information that funds were provided from the Republic's budget to the Nis budget to demonstrate these radioactive thunderstorms during that period, 2009-2010. As we know, it hasn't been done so far. All the deadlines have passed, most likely the funds have been spent unintentionally, and the thunderbolts are still present. These are really radioactive thunderbolts that are very harmful and it would be good for the Ministry of Ecology or some other institution to find the opportunity to provide the means to disarm these radioactive thunderbolts from the territory of the city of Nis and the environment, because we want to ensure a healthy environment, to ensure safer human health, and on the other hand, that it is done as quickly as possible and that all of us who live there live there are freer and that we live safely. By the way, I've been asking around a little bit, the cost of disassemblying these radioactive thunderbolts costs close to 300,000 dinars, and that's what only houses do, let's say the Vinca house, the Vinca Institute could do that, and those funds should be provided. I hope to have as soon as possible information as possible on what has been done with that money that was provided for the decommissioning of those thunderheads in the period of 2009 and finally to provide the funds and find the possibility that these thunderbolts will be disarmed, secure security and what is needed, and there are close to 30. They are also available on residential buildings, there are also business entities that are some in bankruptcy, so you don't know who owns it, because there are 10 or 12 who may have bought some object where that radioactive thunderbolt is located. That's why, maybe, they can't be removed, because it's supposed to be done by these economic entities where that lightninghead or the owner of the building is located. That's why we need to re-provide the funds to dislocate those lightningheads, move, put on a lightning rod that's harmless, that can't do any harm to anyone tomorrow. I'm sure we'll have that opportunity to do it as soon as possible. Otherwise, the head of the district of Dragana Sotirovska tried several times in the previous period. I thank her once again for her initiative, because she is truly heartwarmingly seeking to provide better living conditions for all citizens in the territory of Nisavsky County. Another question of mine is – when will the radioactive thunderbolts in the territory of the city of Nis, in the territory of Nisavsky County be demonstrated and to check what about these funds that were paid in the previous period and where did these funds go? Thanks again. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to have a healthier future for all of us living in the territory of Southeast Serbia when we settle this. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47511	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47512	One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen. Sixteen seconds was supposed to count these sixteen numbers. How many seconds does it take to count 160,000 numbers? So many citizens signed a request from this high House to amend and supplement the Criminal Law in the Republic of Serbia after a tragedy that took place five years ago and in which the Tijana Juric family, 13 days and 13 nights, lost hope, and was increasingly at peace with evil fate. It's not just that victim. It is, according to information on this site, nine victims of children who lost their lives in that period and later. My question to the government, to the resolution ministries, to the presidents of the Assembly, but also to all of us MPs is – when will this law finally be on the agenda of this house? What else should happen without any more victims or those who do so know what is waiting for them, at least the way they are waiting for them in certain countries in Europe? The second question is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, given last week's information from the Republic of Croatia, which is a member of the EU - what is the share of foreign trade chains in the total retail traffic in Serbia by individual companies in the last five years? And the second question, to the same address, how many profit taxes in the Republic of Serbia's budget have been paid by foreign trade chains by individual companies and by year in the last five years? Since these trade chains in the Republic of Croatia have not paid a dinar in the name of corporate tax in the last five years, so the question arises – how can a company do business with a loss and survive on that market? Is that the case in Serbia? Third question, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The president of Dveri's parliamentary group made a mistake last week, I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I did not get it, saying the pensioners first felt problems with their budget costs rights. That's not true. I explained to him after the session, the first one felt problems due to the lack of respect for the budget and the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development of Farmers, for the last six years over 70 billion, if the interpretation of the law is taken up in a semantic fashion and taken to equalise it with EU laws. So is there a country in Europe where VAT is calculated on the excise on diesel fuel and what are these countries? How much is the estimated consumption of diesel fuel in Serbia and how much is it based on this consumption of diesel fuel in the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the name of excise and VAT? Economist Vojislav Mirkov from Zrenjanin only analyzed grains and industrial cultures - 21.5 billion dinars. Furthermore, which production entity is, in part, using a regress, i.e. the refund of excise duty on diesel fuel in Serbia, and how much do these subsidies amount to? Why are non-VAT family agricultural holdings not provided for diesel fuel subsidies? Is it true that farmers during the Slobodan Milosevic regime received 50 liters of diesel fuel per hectare without compensation? Third, Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ministry of Labour, Social and Combat Affairs and Director of the PIO Fund – which foreign investors, in how many years and for how many workers have been released from paying their contributions in the last five years and how much have the PIO Fund's income been reduced on this basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47513	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word has a folk MP, Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47514	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to refer my question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ana Brnabic and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Maja Gojkovic. In fact, the MP group Enough has presented to the public the draft KIM Act, which aims to resolve the KIM status issue in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Resolution 1244 and international law. The MP group sent a copy of the bill to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly and all relevant political organisations, as well as individuals, then to the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Serbian Orthodox Church, with a call for participation in the internal dialogue on KIM, to contribute to their suggestions the development of a final bill. There have been so many stories about the need for internal dialogue that we have given this opportunity to have internal dialogue and to maintain it. One of the most important reasons to sign a legally binding agreement with Pristina is that Serbia has no defined borders and its constitution does not apply on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. Our draft law practically solves both of these problems in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Resolution 1244, international law, and does not require a legally binding agreement with Pristina. The basis for the draft law is the cross-section of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244, and the solution model is the relationship between Denmark and the Faeroe Islands. Denmark is part of the EU, and in its constitution, there are Faeroe Islands that consider themselves an independent state. The people of the Faeroe Islands do not have the benefits of the Danish passport, nor the possibility of being considered EU citizens, or even citizens of Denmark, and have their own football team, are passing their laws, have long been declared independent in the referendum, and Denmark considers them its local self-government. Denmark corresponds to the practical situation on the ground and the problem with the part of the territory, where the population does not feel the country's belongings, to resolve their demands by undermining its constitution with a high degree of autonomy. The Faeroe Islands don't usually have a chair in the UN. By passing the KIM Act, using the Faeroe Islands model, but also many other examples that exist in the world, Serbia can without changing the Constitution, respecting Resolution 1244 to bring KIM under its constitutional legal order. Interestingly, Albanian consent is not necessary for this. The proposal we referred to, the bill sets out all issues from citizenship and ID cards, to the territorial organisation of KIM, the Community of Serb municipalities, the status of four municipalities in northern Kosovo, with tax issues, pension and social protection issues, education, membership in international organisations, sports organisations, etc. Our KIM bill also defines a platform for further negotiations with Pristina on all issues, such as issues of property and territorial organisation AP KIM. In addition to these issues, Serbia has no reason to sign any binding agreement with Pristina. Kosovo's chair in the UN can't be said. The KIM bill, which we have proposed, implies that KIM is an integral part of Serbia and will remain that way. So I repeat my question – why does the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic and the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Maja Gojkovic refuse to talk about this solution, about our proposal for KIM law when it is one of the biggest problems this country has? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47515	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47516	I thank the chairman. My first question is to address the Minister of Health, Mr. Zlatibor Lonchar. It's a situation that I happen to encounter on social networks these days. It is about collecting money for a boy, a four-year-old boy from Zaječar, named Nemanja Jovanovic, and who suffers from one of the extreme diseases that does not unfortunately fall into rare diseases, and therefore this boy has a problem. Otherwise, it's a cyposcoliosis disease. Money is currently being collected for him to be operated in the country, not abroad. This is one of the reasons why the Republic Health Insurance Fund refused to pay for this operation. It is an amount of 32,000 euros currently being collected. About 700,000 dinars have been collected somewhere so far. Unfortunately, it is very slow to collect this money, but now to put it all aside, it remains a mystery – why is it that if we have conditions to operate this child here in Serbia we cannot do it, since it is not a large amount of money? The parents of this child were speaking to the orthopedic Banjic Institute, and then they spoke to the drug that accepted this child to operate. Meanwhile, they entered the data collection process, conducting various analyses and unfortunately a doctor who accepted to do the operation in the meantime no longer works at the Banjica Institute and moved to a private orthopedic clinic and continues to give up his fee. However, the operation itself has a price and amounts to 32,000 euros. A question for the Minister of Health and for the Republic Health Insurance Fund – is there room in the budget to make a concession since it is not a large amount of money to operate on this child since he doesn't even have to travel beyond the borders of our country and has the conditions for this child to be operated in the country? This family lives very hard, lives on the disability pension of this child's father. They have another child who is unfortunately sick. There's room if there's a will to help not only this child, but the whole family. The second question, therefore, has been answered by the Ministry of the Interior today on the issue raised at the previous or that session there and we want to praise that the answer has arrived within a very short time, however, the answer is not satisfactory, indeed in the era of digitisation that we all admire is simply surprising. So the question is our request when we asked the M.O.P. to send us information on how many registered cars are being used by people with disabilities. Today, we have received amazing information that there is no such information and that they cannot send us that information, and it is now surprising to us, since there is no possibility of registering such a vehicle without recording that the special type of manual commands that are being built in is necessary for these commands. So how is it possible that we don't have this data available at all times, since it had to be followed by some procedure to even exercise the right to register under more favourable car conditions that would be used by people with disabilities? I ask the MUP to make additional efforts to allow us this information. I would like to refer the third question to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic about the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. She, unfortunately, recently had a statement in public and said that some mothers would be damaged by 1,000 dinars, thus practically distorting the public picture of the real state and the problems that are related to the application of this law, and the problem is the following – so mothers will not be damaged by 1,000 dinars on average, but will receive around 1,000 dinars, even solutions that are significantly less than this and that on the monthly level. So, in a conversation in one of the meetings that we had with the representatives of this ministry, we heard that significant funds from this ministry are being referred to local self-government and that they will also replace these differences that exist under this law. However, we recently had the opportunity to get to know each other that in the city of Somboru, we have these resources and we have seen that the funds that are intended to help and support families are directed to a theatre performance. So, I'd really like to get a detailed report from this ministry about how funds are being spent that are being spent on local self-government, and do they really end up at the end of the family that should be using this money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47517	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47518	I would like to take the opportunity today to ask the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Lately, we have witnessed numerous Internet publications as a public media and social networks. Unverified and untrue news and social media announcements are transmitted at high speed, and some have the consequences of spreading panic and anxiety among Serbian citizens. Internet and social networks as technology of the modern era are certainly useful and unquestionably necessary and necessary, but they are also used in criminal and legal terms by coming to certain information or helping in investigations and searches and of course we do not want to, nor is it our intention to shut down or in any way prevent freedom of speech, but they often know to be the subject of abuse. We certainly support that the Internet as a media indicates certain needs and situations in society, but it is necessary to access each information responsibly and professionally and in accordance with the law to examine these facts, which has so far worked. However, what happens in the situation when the post is found to have been false. Let's just think of cases of invalid drinking water in Belgrade a few months ago, false rapes, unverified information about child abduction and child disappearance. We had a situation just a few days ago that there were as many as four child abductions reported in a few days. We also find out that migrants who have come from war-threatening areas have committed various crimes. Is someone doing this deliberately with bad intentions for these people, and also towards a country that has put up with great efforts to take care of migrants and solve the migrant crisis, safeguarding the safety of its citizens. In any event, in those cases, the competent authorities have appeared in these situations and have denied the allegations. I would like to refer the question to the MUP – whether the MUP is monitoring, examining and verifying the truthfulness and reliability of these publications and individual news, which are being broadcast daily through social networks. In case the announcements are faked in order to intimidate the people, cause panic and possibly in some way collapse of the security system of the Republic of Serbia, whether in such situations the MUP conducts a procedure in accordance with Article 343. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia? A question for the Ministry of Justice – has the D.A. conducted investigations so far, of course, in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice over these situations? How many people have been processed so far, and what are the outcomes of these processes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47519	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47520	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my parliamentary question is addressed to the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and that is -- have they been involved in the investigation of the Dutch Financial Intelligence Service dealing with financial crime and, for a long time, has been investigating the suspicious business of the Serbian firm, whose media are the closest associates of Gilas and Šolak, if not Gilas and Solak himself, as the most famous Serbian tycoons? Did prosecutors from the Netherlands officially ask the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering for those companies, as media reports say their prosecution has already begun to investigate their business. A question for the MUP – will it investigate media allegations about this case because there is a reasonable doubt that multimillion-dollar transactions between tycoon companies and abroad are problematic? All this can eventually lead to international investigators dealing with this case and the suspicious business of Dragan Gilas and Solak. The media says this is not the first time, but that in January of this year, Dutch investigators were interested in Gilas and Solak's business, under suspicion of laundering money. So this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, because it might eventually reveal where Gilasu's millions from? Where did Gilasu get that kind of money, even though he kept refusing to explain it. Then that's a logical reason for his anxiety that has been present lately, and it's seen in calls for a ban on the media, calls for exorcism from foreign investors and everything else he's been doing lately. He now wants to shut down television, shut down Pink TV, close print media, introduce censorship, and why? Because they don't think like him, because they don't listen blindly to Solak and Gilas. Well, you're not all the media in Serbia "N1" where every day, only the attacks on Alexander Vukic and SNS are broadcast every day, with constant accusations that some media darkness is in action. These are emissions, round tables, stands, 24 hours a day only and exclusively assaults SNS and Alexander Vukic. They don't miss the hair on their heads. They're still complaining about media freedoms. It is the same with many other printed media, "Today", "Time", "Nin" and many other printed media. And you have days of already the most monstrous accusations against Alexander Vukic over some statement that doesn't actually exist. Full hysteria on these Gilas media, for what? Because someone tried to construct something. Because they tried to make up how Wolf said something or thought. The man brought in a serious investment, opened a serious factory, so a serious factory will be opened, a serious number of jobs will be opened, and they orchestrated only on some fictional statement. So, total madness, total schizophrenicity is at stake. I want for the truth and for the citizens of Serbia to read what Vukic said. So, I quote: “I’m glad that girls up to 25 are not the only ones working. Thank you for seeing 50-year-old women. They are worthy and capable women who will show loyalty." So, the fact that 110 people are going to be employed doesn't mean anything to them. That's not interesting to them. That's not even news to them. So they're absolutely not interested. It is quite clear that it is an orchestrated attack on Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and it is already clear here that it is a broad front that has been created, a unique front in which different people have different roles, so some pretend that the opposition, some pretend to be journalists, some pretend to be trade unions, some act of some kind of independent institution, like that Shabic, but with one goal, is to attack Alexander Vukic and SNS at all costs. And that's why, the chairman, I end up nervous because they know that in a regular way, the elections can't beat SNS and Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47521	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of the Parliament, actually the MP of the people, Dusko Tarbuk. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF BUDGETING PRODUCTS According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that during the search in detail on the first item of the agenda, the draft law on construction products has been called upon to attend Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Branislav Nedimović, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Aleksandra Damjanović, Miodrag Poledica, Imre Kern and Zoran Lakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Tanacković, Djordje Milić and Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Bozana Lukić, independent adviser at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. We're going back to work. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47522	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, my amendments point to the importance of the Construction Products Act on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of investment. I will continue to present and list what the local self-government of the Great Plan municipality has invested in infrastructure facilities, and it is related to construction. With the funds of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Public Investment Management amounting to 11562,000, a bridge was built on the Krnjevac stream and an access traffic station. The Serbian government's 124m dinar funds are under way to build 13 new wells to expand the water source of the regional water factory for the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka and wash out pipelines. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government received seven million dinars for the reconstruction of the old SUP building to open a city house, and these works are under way. In all the local communities, many new kilometers of roads have been built, culture homes have been adapted, rehabilitated, which hasn't been done in decades. So the works were carried out at cultural homes in Lozovic, Milosevec, Trnovac, Veliki Orasja, Krnjev, Savanovac, Velika Plana, Donjo Livadica, Stari selo, Novi village, Markovac, Rakinac, Radivnova and Kukusina. The funds amounted to six million dinars from the Ministry of Culture and Information for the replacement of carpentry, isolation and facades at the city library. Financial appropriations are expected from the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Public Investment Management Office to finance three major projects worth 100m dinars, a secondary school centre, a health home and primary schools in Markovac. This calls on all fellow MPs to support this law in the voting day, as well as the other laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47523	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47524	The respected chairman, Milicevic, Minister Nedimovic, with his associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, cannot help but notice at the very beginning of his exposure that through every law that enters the assembly procedure, the opposition shows enormous hatred for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for Aleksandr Vukic, who are just through these laws fighting and show great efforts to make life a better citizen of Serbia. Serbia's President, Alexander Vukic, is concerned about women who are unemployed and who are most difficult to hire, who are women who are between 40 and 50 years old and who have lost their jobs just thanks to the politics of those experts across the street. Something that hurts them most, and that's why they're tireless in fiction and lies. But Serbia is being built today and cranes are all over Serbia. What will be built only in Belgrade in the coming period, including works that have already begun, which are the completion of the construction of the Prokop station, the construction of the Sava Promenade, the reconstruction of the Square of the Republic in August 2018, the reconstruction of Karadjordjeva, the reconstruction of the Usce Park, the reconstruction of the Kalenić market, the reconstruction of Pasarele in Calemegdan, the construction of a facility for the treatment and disposal of municipal waste at the Vinca dump, the construction of a new bus station in Block 42, the construction of a gondola that connects Usta and the Belgrade Fortress, etc. Since the planning documents for the project to build and edit the artificial lake in Resnik in the municipality of Rakovica have been completed, construction will soon begin. In Resnik, a guide was made to wait for years under the railway station. Also, in the municipality I come from, which is the municipality of Rakovica, a bypass has been made that connects and makes the vehicle flow towards Nis and from Nis to Belgrade without a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47525	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47526	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, one of the reasons why I support this bill is that it will certainly affect Serbia's economic potential, affect competitiveness and our construction industry on the European market and have a positive impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The results achieved in the last six years in the Republic of Serbia in the area of construction, transport and infrastructure are certainly for pride and praise. They are visible at every step, all around us, in all towns and cities of Serbia along and across. Only those who are wicked, who envy us, and who are blinded by hatred, see, for they do not want to see them. It is these results and successes achieved by this government, led by the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, who is achieved by this government, by all its ministries and ultimately by all of us, both workers and pensioners, from 2012 to today, and how they are visible, not only here, but in Europe, in the world. It is precisely these results that allow us to make progress on the way to meeting the conditions for Serbia's EU membership. The day before yesterday, at the session of the Assembly Committee on European Integration, we gave a positive opinion on the proposal for a negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia for an intergovernmental conference on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU for two new negotiating chapters and this negotiating chapter 14 - transport policy and negotiating chapter 21 - trans-European networks. I will not talk about the details of these negotiating positions, but I will say that they, too, are those positions, based on the recorded successes that Serbia has achieved in areas covered by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, other ministries and the entire government. So I suggest we pass these laws and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47527	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47528	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this amendment will refer to the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. I must mention here that we needed this de facto law and de jure, that it is something that is necessary, since we all see that every part of our Republic of Serbia is one big site. When I say a large construction site, I will return to something from 2013, or at the end of 2012, which is what this congregation majority in another composition has brought. It's a project of urban regeneration in the city of Kraljev, on Dosite Street. After a catastrophic earthquake in the King, no one remembered a part of the city where the labor colony, where former workers of the car factory lived. These are buildings that were built in the fifties of the last century. Basically, they were flats of 12, 13 square meters, with a toilet and a bathroom on one whole floor. Thanks to the ministry's efforts, efforts since 2015, even though someone tried to slow down the project in 2014, the work in September of the city's regeneration has finally begun. It's a ninem-euro project. It is only the first stage of the arrangement of that part of the city of kings. I'm going to mention another big project we're working with the IPA funds. It is a 32m-euro project implemented by the Public company "Vodovod" in the Kingdom, which is a purifier that will solve the problems not only of the people of the Kings, but also of Vranjska Banja, Trstenik, Kruševec and all the way down to South Morava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47529	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jevtic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jevtic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47530	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which primarily refers to improving business. I must point out that the improvement of business in Vrnjačka Banja municipality is primarily due to responsible leadership that leads to responsible policy. In the previous amendment, I listed some of the content and large investments that were in the course of 2018, which concerned tourism content. On this occasion, I would like to highlight the reconstruction of the House of Health, an investment worth 85 million dinars. The home of health is an institution that is important, of course, primarily to the local population, meaning Vranjska Banja, the environment, but of course to tourists who are up to a million in the year. As far as the reconstruction itself is concerned, the first phase of the reconstruction of the House of Health was completed, where the entire carpentry was changed, where the isolation was carried out, and the second phase in which the replacement of the counters, the work on the central climate, the exchange of elevators and many other things would be involved. What I wanted to point out is that, of course, by replacing the carpentry, this energy efficiency of the House of Health will also rise. What I was about to say is, what the esteemed director of this particular facility, Dr. Vesna Malićan, would say that what remains at the address of the House of Health is just that skeleton that was, or that building, everything else has, of course, changed. In 2018, the health home of Vrnjačka Banja municipality has received four new sanitary vehicles, and I hope that further policy will work to improve the health home conditions. In the end, all of this I have mentioned would not be if it were not for the responsible policies of primarily Mr. Alexander Vukic, the SNS who invests in infrastructure, in health care, in education, all of it for the benefit of citizens, so that they would have better conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47531	Thank you, colleague Jevtic. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47532	I have submitted Amendment 3 to Article 3 of this Act, which adds Section 5. – Article 3 sets out in detail the areas of construction products to which this law applies. Construction is one of the most important industries, as it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. This law will better regulate the market for construction products, raise the level of quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other buildings, all with more favourable prices for investors, which will be made possible by the manufacturer's competition. The new law, apart from raising construction standards in Serbia, will also make domestic producers more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will be applied in Serbia as in EU member states. The law will certainly be an additional incentive to develop construction and will allow building facilities to be safer and more environmentally acceptable. The very important fact is that construction products are very specific, because their performances and properties are seen in full application only when they are installed into the facilities. Therefore, these products must be subject to specific rules. What is important is that the changes made by the application of this law will be visible to all actors. Detailedly speaking, manufacturers will be given the obligation of different frequency of testing, different obligations in the field of atestering, continuity and performance, i.e. They'll have to secure their own product control or hire someone to do it. The newspapers will also feel control bodies, in terms of changes in focus, as well as changes in the method and frequency of testing of the product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47533	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47534	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the draft law on construction products and in Serbia will regulate the quality of construction products. The government's first priority is quality, because responsible leadership, implementing the SNS programme, is leading a policy to protect and create the best conditions for the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This legal act should regulate the construction product market, i.e. raising the quality of materials used in the construction of bridges, roads, buildings and other buildings, especially today when we have a record number of active construction sites in Serbia, over 36,000 with a building permit issued. If we had a more responsible previous government, we should have gotten this law ten years ago. If this legislation had been passed earlier and had been applied for years, it would not have been possible for various unprofessional companies to participate in construction operations in Serbia and for material that is being built into buildings and roads to be inadequate. After the adoption of the law in Serbia, only those companies that are seriously involved in construction will be able to survive. That is why SNS will vote in favour of this and other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47535	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47536	Thank you, Chairman. We have already talked about how much it is in Serbia and how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests in infrastructure projects and these are things that are evident and famous. It is also well known, but I must again point to the destruction of the town of Sapac by city authorities and local sheriff Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. Full care and carelessness have led Shabac to the situation that the basic needs of the people of Zapca have been pushed completely on the sidelines. To understand that the local government in Šapec is absolutely doing nothing, that 70% of the rural local community is without water and sewerage, that the roads are in catastrophic condition, and that the pursuers of Dusan Petrovic are going after the people, by the citizens and threatening not to get their way, or that they won't get their way because they voted for the SNS. Exactly what Dusan Petrovic and his "green man" boasted most about, and this is the return from the tax on the property of citizens, that is, the famous Sabbath referendum. However, the referendum was cancelled today. They're probably raising money to go to Strasbourg, although I think their ticket to the Fireman is cheaper. Nebojsa Zelenovic is likely going to Strasbourg to explain to Serbian citizens why he went to Pec and sat under the flag of the self-proclaimed and unrecognized state of Kosovo, giving them legitimacy and thus presented the Alliance for Serbia's policy. And, in the end, people in Šapec say they see them walking down the street with two suitcases, I guess by the reputation of Srecko Sojic from that famous series. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47537	National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47538	I thank the authorised chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and I believe that the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is really important, because we are here and we have a task that we have promised citizens to recover everything that the yellow Dossmanian government destroyed by 2012. Otherwise, this law is another proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia is generally solving all problems. And those on the other hand, who are here, and at this point there is no, they have a lot of work to do, they set up their alliances to fail, because they do not have enough of what they were doing until 2012, it is not clear to them, so they need to be reminded, that there are currently more than 36,000 construction sites in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that construction sites with all the necessary building permits, which means that there are many factors involved in this process and that everything is being solved and done by law. What I would point out is that, I don't know why it bothers them that we mention through our amendments all the good that has been done in Serbia, all those highways that are being built across Serbia, all those factories and all those investments that come every day. They have nothing to boast about, they can only boast of filling their pockets and devastationing Serbia and leading Serbia to the brink of destruction. It's for shame and all kinds of condemnation, but it's really not enough for them. What we show from day to day is that we are leading a responsible policy and household policy and we are going in big steps forward, and I must mention the town of Kruševac, where I come from, and to boast that the town of Kruševac is not the devastated area that they left you with from the yellow company, but is now a Kruševac who can boast about all the beautiful SNS that is right at the head of Mr. Bratislava Gasic and Mr. Aleksandr Vukić brought to Kruševac, new factories, new infrastructure, everything they have destroyed and left the citizens without a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47539	Thank you. The National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47540	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow Serbian citizens' MPs, I have submitted another amendment that I want to give importance to developing underdeveloped areas, as we are witnessing that a large number of municipalities on the territory of Southeast Serbia need to invest more in them. This law gives us the opportunity for companies that produce certain construction products now and the possibility, as well as the chance to agree on certain acts and that they can function not only here in Serbia, but can also work in EU countries. Otherwise, as far as these construction facilities and materials are being built, it's very important for all of us, because there's a Minister of Agriculture with us, we're now going to build a number of buildings in our rural areas. This material must be of quality, and this law gives us the opportunity for producers of this material to have an obligation, as well as the need to be as high-quality material as possible in order to work and build in these underdeveloped areas of our rural areas. In the framework of laws that these days need to be declared, we have given the opportunity to get permits easier in rural areas, that these people have the opportunity to get permits easier. There's a large number of our companies, specifically the firm in Srlig, that manufactures concrete thresholds. I spoke last time about this company, there are other companies that do wire, which do arms, as well as in Nis where there are a large number of companies that make construction products. These companies will now have the opportunity to send their products beyond Serbia's borders and to make our products quality. Otherwise, by building a railway line in Svrlig and Književec, according to Zaječar, it will be a great incentive for us. The company that is already producing these concrete thresholds wants to provide for the purchase price to finish that part of the railroad, because it is important for the development of agriculture. Otherwise, by building a railroad from Nis to Bor, according to Prahov, it will be much easier for all of us tomorrow to work and function. Once again, I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendment, and I hope that we will have the opportunity for the economy and agriculture in Southeast Serbia to be even better and stronger.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47541	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexandra Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47542	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to a part of the article to which a position should be added that a special accent should be given in this Law on the Agenda 2030. A document adopted by the UN as a strategic document relating to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals and to global policy, as well as to policy in the region and each country that sets 17 objectives. One of these 17 sustainable development objectives refers precisely to the construction of safe, inclusive, flexible and sustainable cities and settlements. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia and only the Ministry of Construction has shown that it is really wearing this policy of building sustainable settlements and cities. When we see that the most modern building materials are being applied, according to the latest standards, but for that, conditions were to be created. The state of Serbia had to first of all make fiscal consolidation, economic reforms, bring a whole set of laws, but also implement them. The results we have today show good grounds for applying these objectives, but shows that according to the number of building permits issued today, only the Ministry is at 25,228 which is twice as much as in 2015 when it issued 12,800 building permits. The building ministry, today, normally participates in building according to the budget of strategic projects, which fall within the capital investment foreseen by the budget for these purposes is 84 billion dinars, and what the ministry is participating in today is 68.7 billion dinars. This shows that we simply view construction as a strategic branch of the development of Serbia's economy and I will tell you that many local self-governments also cope with many good solutions after the application of this set of laws, such as the town of Panchevo, which does not have any illegal object in its records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47543	Thank you. National MP Dr Vlado Babic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's Messenger, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47544	Mr. Nedimovic, it is good that you are because we are absolutely confident that you understand yourself much better in the area of construction than Zorana Mihajlović and since you are here today on the first day of the debate on the set of these laws, to get to know you what was the essence of this debate. The point of this debate is that Zorana Mihajlovic, with the help of US Ambassador Kyle Scott, who is in the government building of the Republic of Serbia, is so-called. The Cypriot state called Kosovo a sovereign state, lobbying for the US company Bekament to come and the government signed a memorandum on the construction of the Moravia Corridor. Why is that fatal for Serbia? We've put out a series of arguments and now that you're here, let's introduce you to some of them. In fact, with the lobbying of Mihajlovic and Scott, the company came here because they realized that, compared to China, our country's great friend and the Russian Federation, Russia's brother mothers were also late with infrastructure projects. Then they figured out how to influence the big Serbian market when it comes to building infrastructure and building that corridor. We have to stop it. You, as Minister of Government, have persistently called on us that the government voted on this Memorandum, probably not knowing all of this information, but it is necessary that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as soon as they have passed the reconstruction and replaced Zoran Mihajlovic from this place, to cancel this devastating contract with Bechtel, in fact it is not signed at all, because even at the University of California and Berkeley, for other countries, where the American company, which has nothing to do with the Trampo, may have had to do with Clinton and Clinton's administration of a close relationship, whose lobbyist was also Mihajlovic, unlike us who supported Donald Tramp, so that this destructive policy is stopped and that it is simply necessary that someone who wants to be responsible and who wants Serbia, comes to the head this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47545	Thank you. Before we continue to work, honourable Members of the People, according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The draft law on construction products and materials contains something none of the Rules of Procedures of the Pink Coalition in the previous three days has said a single word, and these are prefabricated, ordinary, light autoclaved cell concrete products, doors, windows, window caps, entrance doors and products similar to nature. So here we hear about agriculture, probably because there's a Minister of Agriculture with us today, we hear about fiscal consolidation, we hear about geopolitical things and movements, we just don't hear a single word about what's on the agenda. That is the basic reason why we have proposed, as a parliamentary group, to erase both this amendment and the entire law. Because it has become completely pointless to adopt laws in such an environment and again every year or two, as you change these laws, which are on the agenda, you adopt new ones. Because when we need to discuss the details of these laws, we listen to the recommendations of fellow Members of Parliament and the praises of the current regime. We don't listen to anything about the law, in the specific case of the Construction Products Act. So, in this way, we shouldn't be surprised that in 2015, but the Law of Law is passed, that within three years everyone, and you said that somewhere around two million objects of illegal mutilation, you're now moving it for a new five years and you're saying that by 2023, who doesn't legalize his object, that object will be destroyed. I call on competent institutions and bodies and ministers and prime ministers to first bring down the facility at Pancic's summit, then you will show that you are ready to implement what is being discussed here and the laws that are being adopted here. Until then, everything's an empty story to you. You can adopt some laws here every day and not apply any laws in practice. That's one, so take down an illegal facility on Pancic's top. The building ministry has reached a solution to the destruction of an illegal facility. Many state institutions and institutions participated in the construction chain and you are unable to bring it down because the police will not react, will not object to any of your clans or wills, and here you say in the law that you will destroy all citizens who by the year 2023 do not strengthen their private facilities. So that's the basic reason why I and our MP group don't have to adopt this law, because it's going to happen to the families when you've read the same praises and referendums to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then we realize when the law is passed that the consequences of it have been reduced to giving births today. On the other hand, as far as this law is concerned in materials, I can also bring it into contact with the contract to build the highway Pojate-Preljina. Apparently, some much more expensive materials will be implanted next year than was foreseen in 2013, 2014. At that time, the cost of building the Moravski Corridor that passes from Pojat via Kruševac, Trstenik, Vranjačka Banja, Kraljev and Cačka in the length of 110km, the price offered by the Chinese company, was 530m euros. For the same length of the highway from the same 110km, through the same cities, the building minister signed a contract today, i.e. the other day, a memorandum of over 800m euros. How do they raise that for 300m euros, a share of highway through the valley of Morava? So it's not a highway through some hilly areas, nor through the gorge, it's a Western Morava valley, in the plain, for 300m euros you signed a more expensive contract with an investor and a performer, than it was an offer in 2013, with a Chinese company. So it is 300m euros and you are obliged to respond to the citizens of Serbia because you are spending their money. The 800m euros will be the money you will take from the citizens of Serbia again, through excise, tax, various income cuts, the collection of everything and everything, and then you will give that money to someone and there around 300m disappears. So more expensive materials are likely to be implanted. It may have accumulated iron, cement, sand, perhaps that asphalt will be much more quality than the one that was installed in 2013. So, because you're playing with the state and you're passing the law like this, I urge you to stop doing this practice, because this practice is not good for Serbia. It is not a single opposition MP here, it is the citizens of Serbia. For six years, you've been telling fairy tales to the citizens of Serbia, believing them in the pink future, year after year, here we are at the end of 2018. You're saying again that we're gonna be waiting for some pink future, and I don't just know when, you probably already have. You're all fine, you're all stuck somewhere, everybody's great, but come down a little among the people and ask a few of them how they live today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47547	Just a moment, since we have more logs in in the electronic system. My colleague Barisic, as I understand it, pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you have a priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47548	That's right, Chairman. Namely, a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker, who is certainly so young and forgetful, when he mentions that we are taking some pointless amendments on this side, as he says, I would remind him that he and his friend, Mr Đurišic, endured amendments when he wanted to enter the Assembly through Santa's chimney, I don't know what that meaning was. Then, it bothers him that we boast of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved and all those investments and all those infrastructure projects, which were done in the previous period, but he has nothing to boast about, because as president of the municipality of Trstenik, the only thing he has done has led that municipality to ruin. The man who took the tractor from the Ministry of Agriculture, where Mr. Nedimovic, the minister, spits out the state, and takes subsidies for the tractor. It only suits him when he puts something in his pocket, and he's got some use for it, and everything else doesn't suit him. Otherwise, what can be boasted about in Triestenik is that pool that had no use for permission and was highly risky for young people who had bathed there. The only thing he can boast of in his rule. Otherwise, since diplomas were mentioned during yesterday's session, a fellow MP, who apparently deals only with untruths, forgets that he is the very reason why the public-communal company "Počevina" was invented in order to take care of him, and his diploma and day-to-day we have not been able to see, at which he acquired a high school or university. We all have diplomas, and colleagues Orlic and colleagues Martinovic, whom they call and put on a pillar of shame because they have nothing else to say. My colleagues have graduated from law school and have the right to work. It's just that everything that's done right bothers them. What he did for his municipality and his village, Počekovina and Milutovac, showed citizens in the election with only two votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47549	Thank you, colleague Barisic. Col. Barišić, you pointed to the violation of article 107. Since the Rules of Procedure can hurt me as chairman, I must find out which time to repeat what you said during the argument to the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. So it's incorrect, to say the least, to say that some amendment is pointless, and that we are discussing it in the tide. Whether an amendment is meaningful or not, this is being declared by the resolution committee. As soon as the amendment has been found, I am talking about a finding that could be heard before you, so in some way, it is true that it offends the dignity of each of us who participates in the debate on laws that are of great importance and importance. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dragana Barisic: No. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47550	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you've hurt-you've been a member of 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because by who knows which path you give the MPs of the pink coalition to replicate through the violation of the Rules of Procedure. And this time, the person in question, Barisic here, has been replicating me all along, which has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So it's not true that I don't mind anyone boasting. I don't mind you lying. You do everything you say, you lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47551	Comrade Alexic, I ask you to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Comrade Alexic, we're talking here with the power of argument, not by force and by telling someone he's lying. It's the easiest and simplest. I'm asking you not to. I have enabled you, as well as my colleague Barisic, to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I have done. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miroslav Aleksic: Yes. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47552	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107(2) It's a shame that someone... First of all, you were just talking, and you weren't talking about the amendments. If you're reading or not reading, I don't want to go into it, but once and for all, you need to talk about the amendments, and you have to respect us for how we lie, here, now I'm going to tell you. In 2008, you fired 400,000 people, you, not us. We hired 180,000 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47553	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47554	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. (Gordana Comić: Tell Mr Milicevic.) ) Twenty-seven percent were unemployed in 2008, in 2018, 11%. (Gordana Comic: Answers, Milicevic, as it was. Gentlemen across the street, social problem. There were 400,000 people who had nothing to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47555	You're trying to be charming, but let me run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47556	We didn't fire anyone. On the contrary, a good social program, everyone got severance. We've opened over 200 companies. That's how the responsible government works. We take loans, but at 2% interest, and you take loans from 8% to 12%. We're returning your loans. I'm not going to use that ugly word - you're lying, but I'm going to say you're not telling the truth. Your bridge on Ada costs... The most expensive bridge in the world. We finish the highways. Here, Corridor 10 finished 2018. You didn't invest 60 years of money in roads, in air traffic. What did you put your money into? In your pockets. It's a shame to talk to us like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47557	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Ljiljana Malušić: No. I thank you. Comrade Comic, you want a word? (Gordana Comić: No. I thought so. Then you're just trying to be funny. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47558	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, the honourable ones who follow the National Assembly's meeting, I would like, first of all, a few words to say, for the sake of the public. In the previous debate, it was said that, for example, it was about changing some law, anything, and the fact is that this is the first time that the material of construction products is uniquely regulated. In this way, looking for any amendment that deletes any rules, it only says about one thing that someone wants to live in a situation where there are no rules. This introduces clear rules, in a clearly defined way, as exists throughout the modern world. This amendment -- it's deleted, I don't know what else it can mean? To abolish the General Administrative Procedure Act? That means no one has any rights. That's how I realized it. The second thing, first of all, in front of the government, is that there's no contract in front of the government, let alone any agreed price. Third thing, for the first time, we're in a position to get a chance to build a Moravia corridor. I've been hearing about it for 20 or 30 years. I'm also hearing about some other highways that end. So, please, the only thing I see here is pink or lilac, I don't know what color it is, is something on my left. I don't see anything else. (Gordana Comić: What is it now? One tie of lila, it has nothing to do with you. I see a little more than you can see, and you can't see it on your left. What's a fact, it's that in this country there's a growing gross social product. And that's what all the world's financial institutions say. You can't deny that. People's employment is growing. Economic activity is growing. I don't know what you want anymore, except to look for what may be personal to you, so you come to the Agrarian Payment Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47559	I thank you, Minister Nedimovic. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47560	I wanted a replica, Mr. Milicevic, because the minister was replicating with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47561	You don't have a basis for replicating, you get the answer to the question you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47562	Again, I did not hear the answer, not me, but the citizens of Serbia, from the minister, why does 300 million more cost the Moravia Corridor today than in 2013? I know much better than the minister, since I live in that part of Serbia, how long it is announced and I also know that the agreed price for carrying out the 530 million works was in 2013, when it was hitched, because the estimated value of the CIP was 480 million. And today it's over 800 million. So it's not true there's no number. That's what your colleague, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, said herself, when she signed the contract, or a memorandum, I apologize, it's my fault, a memorandum with the US highway company, and the works are scheduled to start half next year. I heard it from her. If she's lying, then I'm lying too. So 800m euros is the figure with which you went out and signed a memorandum on that amount. So I ask – what happened and the price went up by 300 million? The second question to which the minister is not my answer, in accordance with the Law of Law, when will you bring down an illegal facility at Pancic's summit? Whose, who's the real owner, why don't you knock him down and there's a solution to the building ministry? Will the state show that there is and that the laws apply equally to all, or will they apply selectively, in line with the principles and wishes of the Serbian Progressive Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47563	By amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47564	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment of my colleague, which should be seriously considered and incorporated into this legal text, because it has its own seriousness and weight, and I will say the next thing very briefly. Who is telling the truth, and who is lying, is best told by Comrade Jovan Pavlovic, a committee member at SO Trstenik, who on 16 October moved to the Socialist Movement, who says: “I don’t even know what hit me in the first place to be on the list of Miroslav Aleksic, but please accept me, I don’t want to have anything with that liar anymore. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47565	Mr. Alexic, you are now mentioned by name and name, you have a basis for replication, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for the mentioned Mr. Pavlovic, which the previous speaker has presented and something he has neither said nor written, I will explain to him what it is. It's about people from the Socialist Movement blackmailing him so he can move from Triestenik to the Centre for Social Work in Belgrade and say, "You can cross over the moment you go to our party, or to the SNS. “ That’s what he forgot to say, the previous speaker. What's the reason? Now, that's your policy. You're an interesting group, you blackmail all people, you pressure and threaten them, and you threaten people who will never be ideologically related to the ideology that you don't have along the way, they have to for the sake of their existence, for the sake of their families to agree to something that's low, and yet you boast about it. You praise and call someone when you blackmail them, some councilmen and some people, for the sake of their existence or the threat they receive from you, they must approach one of your parties. It's that partocrat you've been fighting all these years. Well, you perfected it. Perfected. I'm sure there are a bunch of people in Serbia who can't wait to go after Alexander Vulin and his political ideology, for his honesty, for his aunt in Canada, for his professionalism. Well, in every city, you can't defend yourself against those members. Well, it's not. People come to you because you blackmail them, because you buy them with the money of the state, the money of the people of Serbia, from the state register, through the institutions of the system. You blackmail people and play with them, but remember, today think about what you will do when you are no longer in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47567	Just a moment, please. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic also has the right to reply, given that the SNS was mentioned, as well as MP Djordje Komlenski, since the Socialist Movement was mentioned. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because of the claim that people are coming to us who are not ideologically bound, so right away with the ideology that we don't have at all, and I would take the opportunity to remind everyone who, possibly, doesn't know that SNS ideology is the ideology of the right center. Ideology, therefore the real national policy and in this sense we are also internationally recognised, I will be very happy to speak up which with everyone who is potentially interested, for example, what we are doing in the European People's Party, which brings together just the parties of the same profiling, so a break from the right center. The fact that there's something and there's nothing at the same time, it's nothing weird, we've heard a little bit before that at the same time, the way it was, we're robbing citizens, and that same money we robbed, we're actually in charge from the outside. Well, it's probably some of our citizens who don't actually live in Serbia, so we're in charge. It's these structures both at the same time. Something else, much more important, that people join us, that people leave out of what is said to be of interest. There's a committee in Triestenik, I think. I didn't hear what happened to, say, the board of the same ones who have a problem with going to Kragujevac because they also moved to us? As far as I think they're not, and as far as I can tell, it's not about one man, it's about the whole board. What's the problem, if that logic is behind it all? What's the logic, for example, if it's happening in the opposite direction? I, for example, saw that the province MP Sasa Radulovic had now moved to the camp of those who had a problem with going somewhere, because then they lured her into something by their logic because they offered her something. I don't understand that. I do not understand, for example, that when a man like Gajic, a high officer in their ranks, who was also with Radulovic, but also with many others, comes to them, is he also lured or motivated by something else? I also don't understand if that's the logic behind it. I'd rather say that there's some logic that needs to be backed up and there's not too much. I find an explanation in the words of that very Gajic, Gajic, who says, "We," and here he thinks of them: "In a political game of democracy and fair we have nothing to look for." You know what? He's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47569	Thank you. Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47570	Of course the Socialist Movement has its own ideology and people recognize it. That the gentlemen who are 5. In October, she came to power with a coup and tried to destroy everything left-wing in Serbia, they think the result has been achieved. They're not seriously wrong. The left cannot be destroyed in any way, and especially not by those who, during their authorities, have shown that they are very concerned about the citizens of Serbia, by stealing through NGOs, by taking money for non-existent public enterprises, were directors of a utility company that had only a director and a broken truck. There was a bigger dilemma about whether he was a more corrupt truck or a more corrupt director. Here, what kind of pressure and blackmail can a man who brought poor Julian into a situation, blackmailing her, taking his money, laundering money from that NGO in Tristenik, over which more than 50 million were taken down in a very short time, that she goes and answers, that she's being prosecuted, and he's here selling honesty and stories about how someone's being blackmailed. It's just not true. The Socialist movement has long since, you haven't been informed, not at the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, there's not a single social director or executive staff, and the truth is that this man has begged and asked to come to the Socialist Movement because he's ashamed of such liars. It is a shame to have someone resell it, to be fictitiously nominated in their midst as a member of SLIP or "the union of thieves and frauds" and that is his only motivation. It's not worth saying to someone who's gonna make up some more nonsense around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47571	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47572	I thank the chairman. Don't take too much care of my people. Take care, too, of your home and take care of you, and when you answer, make sure that you have a duty to answer once to the citizens of Serbia and to the questions we ask, such as the question – how did Minister Vulina get 240 thousand euros for the apartment? It is a question that a minister who performs public office in the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to answer Serbian citizens. Not to me, the citizens of Serbia. Whenever you mention that someone stole something, that someone is responsible for something, that someone should answer for something, remember that you are in power. Remember that you are the ones who enforce the laws and remember that today, after six years of your reign, you have had enough time to process and arrest all those who must have stolen something, since that year 2000 that you're very afraid of today, so you keep mentioning it. Remember that you need to enforce the laws, so that those who have sinned are arrested and convicted and punished. Look what happens when you say they're other thieves, everything seems to be coming back to your address. When you say that, first of all, whenever you say that someone else is a thief, you first answer why you didn't answer, remember the apartment, the apartment of Vulin, which was financed by his aunt. It's something the citizens expect from you. So, first clean up your yard, then give lessons to others and talk to them about good behavior, not just pointing your finger at others, and never giving an answer to what it is to you, what about your responsibility, so none of the opposition performs today's executive function of power, but you, and you are obliged to give citizens answers to all issues of public importance and public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47573	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47574	Mr. Alexic, even when you were alive, I wasn't afraid of you. Are you threatening me again as you threatened the night between October 5th and October 6th, that I take care of my house? I can take care of the house. When you've been sending weapons bastards to liquidate my whole family, is that what you're trying to do here again? Well, I tell you openly, you will not pass, nor could you then, nor will you now. You're asking someone for something. So, explain how you sold the party to Vuk Jeremic? Well, is there anything you didn't sell? You sold the face, you sold the game, you sold the Triestenik, you cashed the NGO. And you can ask someone something and threaten them in that way. Well, how dare you? Well, believing in the law, believing in the court, we waited, going slowly. Mr. Igor Rebi is being taken away from his property for robbery related to "Hetherland" and misused money. We are not going to lynch and arrest, as Zivkovic arrested 15,000 citizens without any legal basis. We're patient, we'll wait for the state to do its job, and you're just threatening. I don't know who you think you're scaring. You don't want me, you don't want lefties. Make sure your threats don't come back as a boomerang.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47575	My friend Alexic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as you can see, I'm still alive, since you said I threatened someone while I was alive. I'm alive today, and I'll probably live for a while. As far as I'm concerned, I've been actively involved in politics in 2008, so I don't know whose address you're referring to, that someone's been evicting you, chasing you, I really don't know, you have to handle it yourself. I've been active in politics since 2008. And it seems to me that you're the last to give me moral lessons. It will be tried by citizens for the public work that I have done, and also by private business and before politics today during and after politics. Because unlike most of you here, I had companies with employees and before I got into politics, and there's evidence about that, and you tell me what you've all been doing before politics, and don't lecture me and lecture me on morality. Answer the citizens where Minister Vulino got 200,000 euros, 240,000 euros for the apartment he bought? He's paid 1,000 euros. How did he get to 200,000 euros? What's he still doing as a public official? Don't talk and scare me, because I'm not afraid of you even today when I'm an opposition. I've never been afraid, nor will I be clothed by you or anyone, because I have no reason to. I'm only afraid of God, I'm not afraid of anyone, because I have no reason to. So now that you're the government, it absolutely doesn't tang me, because I know what I've been doing and all my fellow citizens know. And those who call me for some election results, so come out with a name and a last name, and win like me in your Trieste 35.7%, and you beat me 0.5% all together with Alexander Vukic, and then we can talk. Until then, I'm asking you not to mention it anymore, because you're laughing yourself in the face.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47577	Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47578	Well, you see, as the citizens of Trieste know you, you are also in power. If you'd been better, you'd probably be in power. As far as I'm concerned, for twenty and a half years I've been a lawyer, and frankly, I've met a lot bigger thugs and bigger thieves than you, defending them professionally, maybe it's not moral, but I've earned from them, whatever. So this long-term practice really gives me the right to be able to easily identify a potential client. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47579	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to the law of objects, there are a lot of contradictory members, such as Article 2 and Article 5 of this bill. These remarks were made by the profession, where two problems arise. First of all, there are areas with built objects, which are not seen in satellite video, say, growth, fog and angle of recording. Secondly, there are a large number of objects that were built in 2015 and are not visible in the video. The assumption is that one part of the terrain was taken in March 2015 and the object was taken in July of the same year. What about such objects, then? One criterion cannot be seen in the video without taking into account statements, such as investors, witnesses and the like. This member, as I said at the beginning of the presentation, is contradictory with Article 5. Law on legislation, which stipulates that facilities for which consent is to be obtained, for documentation from firemen, the time of construction is determined in other ways than satellite footage. And then Article 8 provides that the legal process is to be initiated on the basis of the notification of the visibility of the facility on satellite video, which is to be supplied to the competent authority for the conduct of the legal procedure by the authority responsible for the tasks of the national diameter and the catastra. This is where it should stand – the competent authority for the conduct of the legal process and the construction inspection, because the legislation begins with the adoption of a decision by the building inspector. Because building inspectors are obliged to make a list of all illegally built objects. And this member is scheduled to inform the law enforcement authority, not the building inspection, which is incomprehensible, as the legislation begins with a decision on the destruction by the building inspector. This will reduce the procedure, as the authority will have to inform the building inspector upon receipt of the information from the cataster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47581	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how much Minister Nedimovic is competent to defend these laws, but what is there. I was hoping Mrs. Mihajlovic would come to the O.R. today, but apparently she has some problem facing the MPs, so we have what we have. Of course, Mrs. Mihajlovic may have justifiably been prevented, perhaps she is opening up an object, perhaps cutting off the tape, and perhaps that very object and that tape that served as a warning that construction was forbidden. You know, times are such that it should be saved, so this same tape to serve as a warning for the construction ban and for the opening. There are cases like that, just so you know. Mrs. Mihajlovic does not realize that money and political power are not the ones who solve everything. If that were the case, a cure for old age and many other things would have taken mankind so long ago. The most important things for mankind are beyond the limits of the operation of money, so it has to be taken care of. That's why I think Mrs. Mihajlovic should resign, that she is no longer coming to this hall, because humanity is doomed to watch the star turned off and cannot see those stars that are still shining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47583	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47584	Just one small reference to what fellow Savic said, he's a well-informed man, but this time he has no real information. Here, my colleague Mircic and I received information from the government, which is why Minister Nedimovic came to tell us that Mrs Mihajlovic resigned. All these days, it looked like something like that to us, and Mr. Nedimovic's politics will. It's just, I remember when a man was a folk MP doing it so responsiblely and maybe you and you're the right man for this topic that I want to comment on, since you're the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Yesterday I overheard a subject that was problematic. It's nice that Bratoljub was done and the state of Serbia invested about 5.5m euros in the investment. On May 20th 2017, the bridge, even said it was opened, was attended by the president and prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and the president and prime minister of Republika Srpska. At that time construction works on the crossing of the Drina River were found to be in line with the planned deadlines. That was absolutely correct. Here is a statement: “The crossing of Drina is over. The hardest and most important part of the work in the river and above the river, and the ministry announced that the bridge would be released in traffic when all works were completed. The end was announced for 20 September 2017." We already left it to ourselves on 20 September 2018. On the contrary, in Republika Srpska none of the building facilities to be set up have yet to start construction. I'm happy here when I hear comments from colleagues from other places as much as they've done. I'm particularly interested in this Leskovec thing. It's almost over there. And from other places. I welcome and respect it. Don't be unfair to Ljubova, conditional on me telling Bratunac and Srebrenica, because the state of Serbia has also invested fivem euros in building the infrastructure in Srebrenica. Mr. Nedimovic, if you could give some of these answers, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47585	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47586	Thank you. I'd like to say a few words in the context of Bratoljub, a bridge that exists there. Serbia has completed all its obligations, issued a service permit for the bridge. There's a problem on the other side about a service station. I hope that in the very near future this thing will be overcome and that we will have a common transition that will regulate the complete traffic of goods and people. There's also some technical problems about expropriation, not to bother everything. Another thing I want to say is how much Serbia cares about connecting to the territory on which the Serb population is living is the context of the implementation of the Kuzmin-Beljin project next year. That's another point where there would be a quality connection between these two territories. I'll just remind you that it's absolutely amazing how two territories that have the biggest trade co-operation in the last 50, 60 years have been the least traffic-related, you'll agree with that. It was so absurd that at that point at Love's people had to go who knows how many miles away to cross only the other side in a high-quality and adequate way. We'll do whatever it takes for us to finish it as soon as possible. There's a memo that needs an administration in Sarajevo to finish. I hope that as soon as possible we will remove these shortcomings and make it fully operational, Serbia ends its obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47587	Thank you. Comrade Peric, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47588	Mr. Nedimovic, I didn't say that the construction work, as far as Serbia is concerned, was not issued, I'm not talking about it. There's a lot of buildings built. The investors had money, they did it. I did not dispute here that the state of Serbia did not end it and that there is no excessive need, a great need for such a thing as Kuzmin, as many other places are. This is the 12th bridge to be built on the Drina River, and it is certain that there is a need, if there is a possibility that there is more than that, but is not allowed, sends a bad message from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the citizens of Serbia, so towns and they, not having a building permit, is a minor problem. We don't want to slow down, it's here and it's different to see who's responsible. The same attitude towards those responsible, i.e. those who do not allow it to be done in time, has Belgrade and Banja Luka. I'm about to tell you on the side of what he's thinking... The same attitude between Belgrade and Banja Luka. We in the SRS have that attitude, too. Sarajevo sees differently. Sarajevo wanted to take advantage of other unresolved problems when it comes to the border, but someone had to know before the construction started, that he had in mind and that the problem was solved, so that further problems would not arise. Secondly, when I mentioned investment, when I mentioned the development of some other places, think about a little bit about joining the government to create a project documentation for building a tunnel through the past, so that what we're talking about is a 50km shortcut between Sarajevo and Belgrade, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Belgrade. I think Mrs Damnjanovic will help too, since she's been in the ministry for a long time and that would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47589	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Aleksic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47590	Thank you, Chairman. To repeat what the citizens have not heard yet in response, and this is again a question for the Minister and other representatives – why in 2013 did the Chinese company CRBC offer a price of 530m euros for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, and today, that is, the other day, the building minister signed a contract at over 800 million with the US company? Why the highway through Pomoravalje is more expensive for 300 million today than it was in 2013. The second question, also, to which the citizens did not get an answer, why did not they bring the building up illegally on Kopalnik, at Pancic's summit, and when it would be torn down, since the ministry issued a solution to the collapse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47591	Thank you, colleague Alexic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47592	First of all, since the debate was going on, I didn't want to get involved, because Mr. Komlensky said enough that everything I said after him would be funny. One other thing, and now I'm going to tell you, not wanting to usurp the time of the National Assembly. Maybe someone here is a witch and has a ball, so they know what technical documentation will look like and how much it will cost, that Moravia corridor. It's signed a memorandum. In the legal theory, the memorandum is a non-binding legal act that is a condition for other acts to come later. Those stories for small children, 800 million, 300 million, 500 million, when the project documentation is finished... I think whoever used to run something knows what order of things is, not to use insinuations and talk about 300 million, 500 million, billions. I don't think it's like this home, and I don't think we should discuss it at all. When the technical documentation is done, you will be notified how much it costs, who will be the performer when the whole procedure is completed, and that's it. There's one more question, so it won't be later if someone won't answer, every illegal object, literally everyone has a procedure to go after it. The procedures will be respected for everyone in this state of Serbia. There's only one small problem, maybe you won't wait for procedure, maybe you'd like to resort to force.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47593	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47594	Here we are having a debate on the standardisation of construction products, and we Serbian radicals are administratively seeking that the issues and corrections of this law, through attempts to correct this law, receive concrete answers from the Ministry, or the Minister, will the cost of standardisation affect, how much will it affect the competitiveness of the products produced in Serbia and will this further make it difficult or make it easier to sell these products on the ino-market? Nothing more. We ask – is this a random coincidence to go with standardising construction material when signing a memorandum with the US company Bechtel? Don't be fooled, Bechtel is like "Coca Car", like "Texaco". "Bechtel" is an American policy. For this reason, we Serbian radicals ask – is something already prejudged to say – no, "Bechtel" comes to work on the highway, and this is also the order of the construction industry in Serbia? This same Bechtel destroyed bricks by doing jobs in Guinea, destroyed the production of bricks, and on that basis we ask, and we are listening here from the Minister of Some Tirada. She's interested in everything. She's got an answer for everything. We are essentially different from the minister as bees and flies. We Serbian radicals as bees want to build this hive called Serbia, we want to contribute to progress, and the minister as a fly, she just flies, she works, and it's not the essence of how much she flies, it's the essence of where anyone lands, we land, and the minister as a fly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47595	Thank you. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47596	Thank you. It is not impossible for the citizens of Serbia or the SRS to explain something that is normal and something that is well-intentioned, which comes from the ministry and from this government, but in order to do so, Minister Nedimovic has to answer the next question – who will be responsible for the 10 support wall in Corridor for whose recovery it will take seven million euros? I ask Minister Nedimovic, who really doesn't look at or listen to questions, and he doesn't care about this, and I don't think his ministry is interested in anything special, except in parts where it's important to subsidize some of his former voters, because he was a representative of the DSS and he's very close to the DS and his members. So what we know, we know that he was also sharing subsidies and our central Serbia was mostly left without it and our peasants upstairs in rural and hilly areas were mostly denied and without it. Let's get back to this question. I ask Nedimovic on behalf of the citizens of Serbia – who will compensate for the damage to the support wall that was deposed on Corridor 10, and we know that the current director of Corridor said that it would require at least seven million euros for its recovery? I ask – where will you give these seven million euros, why do you have no responsibility in your ministries? There's no responsibility at the Ministry of Infrastructure, no responsibility at the Ministry of Agriculture, no responsibility at all, I won't say in any, perhaps in a rare ministry. How do you think you can manage a public life without responsibility and how do you think citizens will continue to suffer it? It's almost impossible, and you have to understand in time that it's impossible not to surprise you. The Serbian Radical Party warns you of such things and we warn you that this will not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47597	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to point out that for all citizens of Serbia, it was incomparably more important and useful that in this debate in particular today we talked about the draft law on planning and construction or on the bill on the law of the buildings. In an attempt to confirm the subject matter of the regulation of this law, two clearly separate and artificially combined segments are set out. The first is economic or marketable and the second is purely technical. Isn't putting some goods on the market more in the domain of the Ministry of Trade, and all these technical things could be added and amended already by one of the existing laws in this sphere? However, 210 pages of support for technical contributions have been given in order to highlight all legislative impromptuness of the building ministry. The legal basis for passing this law is also thin and is at the level of failed legal provisions. It is said that it is not in line with the EU, with European legislation, which does not matter to us from the SRS. The legal basis of this law does not confirm, does not respect the specificity of construction facilities. All in all, this bill of law is more a matter of someone's ambition, in particular the Ministry of Construction than the real and real need of an economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47599	I thank my colleague Boyic. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like the MPs of the former regime not only to speak but to assure us that they are really fighting for the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Here, they're not even here in the O.R. right now. Not a single one. So they care about the interest of Serbian citizens for about 15 minutes as long as they sit in the O.R. to charge, to bring out their lies, to come out. There's a colleague here, I can't say esteemed because he knows very well what he's saying, what's true, what's false, raised certain doubts about the public debt and called the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MPs who support this government to the liars, and he's also kept quiet the fact that this government and all previous governments since 2012 have paid nine billion euros in interest on the loans they made so far. That's not what he's gonna say. Unlike their 15 billion-euro debts, which show, otherwise the figure is much higher, new Serbia's duties must be programmeable, must have an analysis of the effects and economic justifications, any debt. Serbia only received a mirage from their duties. The highway from Presevo to Vranja paid for was not built entirely for their time because the contractor of the work paid for went bankrupt. Who stole that money? It is at least 300m euros, and then it talks about how they are fighting for the interests of Serbian citizens. I end my colleague with just one more question, to ask them – is it over 200km of highway built back a few years of mirage and are Serbian citizens using highways or other planets?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47601	Thank you. By amendment, MP Novaca Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47602	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I agree to the amendment of my colleague, but I would like to say that after my presentation last night, I have received many calls from colleagues from the Serbian Chamber of Engineering who support this amendment of law, and I, as a member of the Engineering Chamber, am also MPs who will vote for this amendment of law and we advocate that the Engineering Chamber elects legal leadership, and that it works by the laws that we here in the Assembly have passed and what the people in Serbia have voted for us. I also want to rely on the law on amendments and additions to the Law of Law. As I said yesterday, she is not a minister, but Minister Nedimovic is there, we Socialists are pushing for a comprehensive law on legalisation that will handle everything that has been done illegally so far, and also to stop once wild construction in Serbia. Yesterday, I also told the minister that we had a problem with the crash tender. The minister replied that it would be done by public enterprises, military construction directors, etc. I, now, as a member of the ruling coalition, propose to a member of the government, Minister Nedimovic, let us use these public enterprises to no longer build. To pass such a law that if someone starts, they can basically prevent public enterprises from building any more so that investors don't cost any more, and normally we as a state suffer as well. So, we Socialists advocate a comprehensive law, where everything that was built, even to this day in Serbia, would be legalised, provided it wasn't on the collector, it wasn't on the power line, it wasn't on some land that it would need, or which is in the interest of the state of Serbia. But to pay for the same communals, the same taxes as the ones that were legally built, even to pay for some punishment, because people were working illegally. Not to mention a lot of those crashes, because you know we're going to have a problem with both the demolition and all that, it's better to legalize it, that people pay for it, and that we pass one law and that these public enterprises, both the military and the police, and all of us use that there is no more wild construction in Serbia. And so we will once stand in the way of wild construction in our beautiful Serbia. If we allow it, here I come from a small community of Surdulica, to build a house in the middle of the square, a center in Surdulica, if we allow it, it's our fault. And, for this reason, I propose to you ministers, as a member of the government, and Aleksandra Damjanovic, who has worked at the Ministry of Construction for many years, here we Socialists are also pushing for a truly comprehensive law that will prevent wild construction in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47603	I thank my colleague. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47604	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on construction products in order to further define the member mentioned, and in particular to place an accent on traffic integration. Responsible budget management, responsible treatment of Serbian citizens' money, savings reforms bring results that we have heard from all colleagues in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. It is a pleasure to hear that in every city, in every municipality, how it is done and built and how it is done to improve the quality of life of citizens. And anyone who participated in the debate could at least list the benefits of building new roads, of reconstructing railway lines, of investing in municipal infrastructure, of building schools, hospitals, etc. That's what Serbian citizens see, feel, and there's nothing anyone can tell you. When were there this many foreign investments in Serbia? When in Serbia were 36,000 construction sites with construction permits issued where works were carried out according to the project? So, when did we have a surplus in the budget? The greatest efforts of President Aleksandar Vukic are indeed aimed at preserving peace, stability, good neighbourly relations, and these are essential things, and then accessing the building of good, quality infrastructure, which will contribute to the realisation and projects, and not only the faster implementation of the projects, but also the regulations that are being adopted, are being adopted in order to make this fundamental and comprehensive. After that, investors come to us, new factories are opened, citizens of Serbia are employed, and then simply, on the other hand, you have attacks on the man who allowed, or who banned the Republic of Serbia from the map, from the world map for any co-operation. The worst thing about President Vukic and SNS policy is those whose results certainly had a line in front of each figure, at best zero when they wrote a result. Now, that gets in the way, the citizens of Serbia remember that, and there will be no more opportunities for such a policy to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47605	Thank you, colleagues. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47606	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues, recently a Serbian delegation was in the People's Republic of China and the visit could be called a historic visit. It is the fifth and fifth meeting of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Chinese president. During that visit, 11 contracts of value were signed close to three billion dollars. And about his friendship with the president of Serbia and the friendship of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, the Chinese president said – the personal relations between the two of us are the relations of the highest trust, which is why our two countries have steel relations, and a steel friend is the best, of the best. Serbia wins because Serbian citizens understand that a $1.46 billion investment agreed on the visit, which will be conducted in Bora, will participate with 1.5% in GDP growth and that this growth will provide some new kilometer of highway, a new school, a hospital, and yet some new growth. And, symbolically, the shares of the times LJig – Preljina, those 66 bridges, are our answers to 66 monstrous tweets. Four tunnels symbolize our answers that there are no obstacles to our journey, and 7.5 kilometers of noise fences in that direction symbolize that we will not be touched by these insults, that they will not disrupt the continuation of this road, and especially the noise of those who suddenly have trouble with pinkness, and they did not mind while their tycoon Gilas from there picked up purplely and in millions of amounts. So they didn't mind pink at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47607	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47608	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, our president and our government are working to make the business climate better evenly on the territory of all Serbia, building transport infrastructure, opening factories and new jobs. On the move of Banja Koviljača-Mali Zbornik-LJubovija, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure rehabilitated 53km of roads. Unlike the previous period, when there were holes and drivers were left without wheels and destroying their vehicles, it is now a modern traffic station with three billion dinars invested in reconstruction. I would ask Minister Mihajlovic and the ministry's resolute ministry to take into account part of the regional road R113 from Zajaca towards Gornji Dobrinja, which leads next to the dangerous dump, whose recovery is at stake due to poorly done project documentation. That part of the road in the length of about two kilometers remains incomplete. The waste disposal project was done by engineers who didn't even get into the field. This is more reason for the government to take responsibility for the licenses of members of the Engineering Chamber, because it is obvious that some experts do not do their job professionally. As the previous regime sought to improve the business climate in Loznica, it speaks of information that I have come to as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection in the hope of dangerous waste i.e. 75 tons of cyanide salt from the center of the city, I've come to the realization that I'm looking for something that's already been removed, reflected and paid, i.e. paperologically completed at the time of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action and in reality still stands in the same place. Which is suspected and who is in the signature is known to the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47609	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47610	Thank you. At this session, ladies and gentlemen, we have already repeatedly stressed that it is necessary not only to make significant efforts but also to bring things to the high standards that we want to bring closer to our society. This, of course, means today, and tomorrow, of course, when we get closer to these European standards, but also at any time independent of any story of integration, the need to work under the law. We have talked about a number of cases when the law, unfortunately in times when the former regime, this tycoon-Latić coalition has burned and burned Serbia, in many cases the law has been played, many situations have been made conscious and deliberate. One example is just so-called. The Hetherland affair, we touched her today. According to the latest information I see, there was that part of the procedure relating to the sale of assets to sanction insubordinations related to the Hetherland affair. It dated at the time of 2011, and was the direct consequence of what it was doing, at the time the competent fund, which was personally managed by Bojan Pajtic, and of course was then in the leadership of those people who are still active Dragan Djilas today, and today active Vuk Jeremic, a number of people who, at that time, were, unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, at the head of the state, or the Autonomous province. Then they allowed themselves this sort of thing, like the Hetherland case, for which it was secured, it seems to me, 156 million dinars, which has never been initiated as a project. Today, they're angry at this kind of information, they're reacting to threats that they're going to shut down the media, that they're going to send journalists to jail. As a rule, where they have no commercial interest, where they have these silences, and no one can ask a question, nor do they comment. As far as I can tell, they announced today and they're going to sue, those from the tycoon-Ljutić coalition, anyone who calls them Latvians and fascists. That's what their co-ordinator here in the Serbian Parliament, Bosko Obradovic, who fenced himself, said he did not support the engagement of Dimitri Ljotic during World War II and his crimes. As soon as he shows up in the O.R., I'm telling you that you know, I'm very happy to show him his praises to the Ljotic Serb Voluntary Corps, who was just active during the war and who committed all those terrible crimes that every decent man detests. As they deal with these things, they themselves and their values which are values of Latvian ideology and fascism, we will deal with good and smart things, which, of course, include good laws like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47611	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47612	I thank the chairman. The high standards that the previous Orlic spoke of are also reflected in the results, including when it comes to Corridor 10. Share Grabovnica-Grdelica, length 5.6 kilometers, works completed, shares released in public traffic on 11 April 2016. Gredel-tunel Predejane, Lot 1, length 6.1 kilometers, degree of completion of the work 93.%, late 2018, along with all shares through the Grdelička gorge. Under 3. – Predejane-Lot tunnel 3, construction works have been completed, so at the end of 2018 together with all six shares through the Gredile ravine. Tunnel Predejane-Caricina Valley, Lot 2, length 4.7 kilometers, degree of completion of works 92%. Carica's valley - tunnel Manajle, Lot 5, length 6.7 kilometers, works completed together with all six shares through the Gredile ravine. The Manndale tunnel, Lot 4, complete rate of work, 97%, along with all six shares through the Gredile ravine. Let's move on, Tunnel Mannille-Vladicin Han, Lot 6, six miles long, papers completed. Vladic's Han-Prevalac, Lot 1, 10.1 kilometers long, works completed. Share released in public traffic on 28 November 2015. Prevalac-Suvi Dol, Lot 2, nine kilometers long, works completed, shares released in public traffic on 28 November 2015. Dry Dol-Donji Neradovac, Lot 3, length 7.2 kilometers, works completed, shares released in public traffic on 28 November 2015. Lower Neradovac-Serbian House, Lot 2, eight kilometers long, part of the length finished the rest, another 0.75km, share released in public traffic on 14 November 2013, etc. That's what the SNS results say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47613	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47614	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, my colleagues Orlic and Markovic explained the results of the SNS, the government run by the SNS and all that we all combined, led by Aleksandar Vukic, have achieved in the past six years. Indeed impressive results Serbia sees and feels at every turn. Every mile of highway, every factory and every new job has brought a new chance and a new life to Serbia. They across the street from us, who are gone, and they're gone because somehow, every time they're scared, when they hear that one of the SNS MPs is talking very specifically about the results that have been achieved, very precise, very exact, they're kind of, faster-better to draw cards and escape from the Assembly Hall. And how many ignorants are saying enough and the data that this negative growth is, and that's the only growth that existed during the DS government, that is. This current alliance for Serbia's strangulation and rape, was 3.1%. Serbia was increasingly in charge from day to day. Our debt has reached about 70% of GDP. Today, it is around 55%, and already in January of next year we believe it will be below 50%, an exceptional success both in the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can convey to you the satisfaction of the citizens who followed these sessions, who, I said at the beginning of the exhibition, were extremely pleased with what we had achieved in the previous six years, all together, fighting for Serbia's interests and citizens provided full support in the previous elections, so they will do, I'm quite sure, and in any subsequent elections in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47615	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47616	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, to Article 4. I submit an amendment to the proposed law on construction products in the sense of adding item 2 which defines more precisely the link between the proposed legislative solution with the even development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 4. The draft law provides that all matters which are not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing the general and administrative procedure. The general objectives of the proposed legislative solution are to create conditions for construction products which are placed and made available on the market of the Republic of Serbia, which are installed in buildings, to meet the prescribed requirements for meeting the basic requirements for facilities and to achieve greater competitiveness of domestic market players. In view of the fact that the Republic of Serbia does not have a general regulation, which in a unique way would deal with issues relating to the action available on the construction market, as well as the complex nature in the area of construction products, it was necessary to address the problems in this area by adopting a new law. Another important reason for the adoption of this law is the fulfilment of the obligation to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules. Construction as a complex means services and processes, as well as the installation of finished construction products, with the final result of the facilities, should in every respect meet the requirements of the project, security and end-user. The work of construction is conditioned by the protection of the environment, represents an important factor in sustainable development and is inexplicably procedurally linked to other activities. In addition, construction is one of the most important business cities because it provides facilities and infrastructure for all other economic and social categories. All advances certainly have an impact on construction as a business branch, the most real impact on the even development of the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social life, so the submission of the amendment is one form of support for the idea. I have pointed out earlier that in all legislative proposals we must support the idea of even development of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47617	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47618	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submit an amendment to Article 4 of the mentioned Construction Products Act, which is heading towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to economic development. The economy that has been operating for the third year in a row has achieved positive results. It is a clear signal that the economic picture of Serbia has been repaired. We've been doing positive business for the third year in a row. Their positive net result in 2017 recorded significant growth, and last year reached a total of 437.2 billion dinars, which is a double result compared to 2015 when the profit of the economy of 187.4 billion dinars was achieved. Due to favourable business conditions, the number of employees was also increased by 34,456 workers, so companies totalled 1,073,557 workers in 2017. Today we are political, economic, investment and infrastructure stronger. We stabilized public finances, opened factories, dropped unemployment to 11%. We are leaders in Europe by direct foreign investment, and the third in Europe by GDP growth. Thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, we have a clear foreign policy on every issue, a policy of peace that leads us forward, stronger, faster and better, I thank you. Today, political, economic, investment and infrastructure strength, we stabilised public finances, opened factories, dropped unemployment to 11%, leaders in Europe, under foreign direct investment, and third in Europe for GDP growth. Thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, we have a clear foreign policy on every issue, a policy of peace that leads us forward, stronger, faster and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47619	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47620	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the favourable macroeconomic results of the government of the Republic of Serbia have made it possible to increase and invest in all areas of life and in all parts of Serbia, including the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike the quasipatriots, which, of course, are not present, whose primary task, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, is to scrutinise from their comfortable cabinets and apartments, thus causing damage to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and who suffer adverse consequences, Aleksandar Vukic has repeatedly visited every village and village in which Serbs live and met their daily problems they face. Not only did he identify the problems, but he took all the measures and activities to eliminate and resuscitate them. This was the case during his last visit when he brought in a comprehensive investment plan for 10 Serb municipalities, as well as for every Serb-run site. Investment has been announced in various projects worth over 70m euros, only mentioning some of them. Tenm euros in the Mitrovica Clinical and Hospital Centre, 13m euros for the Pelet Factory and 1.2m euros for internet agricultural schools in Leposavic, 25m euros for the Suncan Valley settlement in Zvecan, twom euros for KBC in Gracanica, 40m dinars for the construction of a children's kindergarten in Strpac, sixm euros for the completion of the regional water pipeline for Zubin Potok, Zvecan and Kosovo Mitrovica. This relationship between the president and the government of the Republic of Serbia on the most important state issue such as Kosovo and Metohija speaks of the willingness of the current government to achieve essential national and state objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47621	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47622	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, respected Mr. Nedimovic, the building is one of the drivers of Serbia's economic development. In the manufacturing process, it employs almost 40 business activities that work when the construction industry is in the upward path. The involvement of the construction industry is significant in the structure of exports, in the gross social product, the number of employees, the number of companies. By attracting an enormous number of foreign investment in Serbia, the construction industry has been launched, and it has also driven economic growth. Much has been achieved in this area, construction permits have been speeded up, all the capacities of domestic companies have been employed, the share of the construction industry in Serbia's GDP has been increased, which is also witnessed by Serbia's position on the Duing Business List. Many infrastructure projects have been launched, and the modernisation of railway infrastructure and the construction of bridges and housing, of course, the largest and most important project "Belgrade on Water". We talked here about corridors and highways and how much easier it is to travel through Serbia and Serbia. The benefits of all these infrastructure projects, the legal relief that we bring here, as well as the importance of a healthier economy and industry, are clearly visible, and the financial benefits that these corridors and projects will bring to our country in the future are yet to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47623	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47624	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Construction Products, this area will be regulated according to EU standards and practices and will facilitate domestic export producers to foreign markets. The main objective is to regulate this area and make domestic producers more competitive on the European market, as the same standards will be applied in Serbia as in EU member states. The expected effects of this law will be a more regulated market for construction products, raising the quality of materials used in the construction of roads, bridges, buildings and other facilities, with more favourable prices for investors, made possible by the manufacturer's competition. The adoption of laws will establish a system that only secure and secure construction products built into buildings will be placed on the market, thus ensuring the safe use of the facility, as well as making these facilities more environmentally acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47625	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47626	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this fourth amendment is heading towards connecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with this law. Yesterday, I spoke about what has been done in Leskovac since November 2012, since the SNS was in power, so for these undercharged six years. Also, my fellow MPs have been talking about what has been done in their cities and municipalities since the SNS was in power and yesterday and today for the MPs of this "disrupt Alliance" has bothered me, so I do not, Mr. Chairman, have any problem talking about what has been done in Leskovac when DS led Leskovac, but unfortunately for all the citizens of Leskovec, I do not have anything nice to say about that period, because in their time some failed projects have been realized, such as. The project of a well, when millions of people of Leskovec were thrown into finding hot water and that, imagine, in a field owned by a senior DS official. Also, in their time, 300 city administration employees of Leskovac who were not members of the DS were fired, and they brought their people to those jobs. After three years, all those employees who were illegally fired were returned to work, and the city cost over 100 million dinars. Now you see, for those 100 million dinars how many construction sites in Leskovec could have been opened, how many schools could have been built, how many kindergartens, how many streets could have been paved up. A half-hour ago, counterpart Alexic of the "disaster Alliance", who is not already there, said they were not vindictive. They are, and they're vindictive, and I'm sure they'd hang all of us political insolents, and that's what they showed when they had the chance to lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47627	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47628	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after nearly 30 years since the EU began to regulate this area, Serbia has for the first time edited this area in the term of office of the government. By passing this law, domestic products and manufacturers will become competitive on the EU market, and products will be safer and safer to use. The results behind Alexander Vukic's wise and responsible policies say Serbia has crossed the path from destroyed, ruined and robbed states to a stable economy. Public debt has been reduced from 70% to 49%, the growth of GDP by the second in Europe, the number of unemployed has been reduced from 26% since 2011 to 11.9%. We have been through a terribly difficult period of fiscal consolidation to succeed with 159 euros to raise the minimum minimum to 230 euros, on the Duing Business List of 190 member states Serbia is a step in entering the first 40. Serbia has become a regional leader in attracting investment, continued progress in the realisation of major infrastructure projects. This government, unlike those who have destroyed power to rob their own state, set up firms in Malta and other tax havens, those financed by Qatar and who cannot explain where they have $5m in their account, work and build honestly, transparently in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47629	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jolovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47630	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, the proposed amendment highlights the importance of construction and construction industry as a significant segment of the economy of every country in the world, and construction is primarily a labour intensive branch that employs a really large number of workers. The experiences of other countries in the world have shown that in difficult economic conditions in the country, increased activity of construction significantly alleviates and solves unemployment problems, and on the other hand, it is no doubt a multiple fact of construction on growth and the development of other economies. Construction is absolutely absorbed by a large part of the production of other industries, primarily by industry, which directly contributes to the growth of production of other industries, but contributes to the overall development of each country, and the state and development of construction and industry are directly linked and the construction material is directly coordinated with the volume of investments in each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47631	Thank you. The National MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević was divided into Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47632	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, with associates, ladies and gentlemen, nine major foreign investments in southeastern Serbia, most of which in Nis, will lead to the region having a huge export growth and the largest surplus in the country's foreign trade exchange, which in the first half of this year amounted to 255m euros. With more than 200m euros in investment, we will have about 12,000 new jobs, only in Nis. When we are on the ground of Serbia's EU accession, the issue of projects and the necessity of local self-government activities is very important, so that certain funds are attracted and taken from EU funds. Pirot, Dimitrovgrad, Leskovac, Merošina, Blace and Vlasotince will receive around 100,000 euros through the EU's "EU PRO" development programme, to improve local environments to make them more attractive to investors. For example, in Merošina, money will be used for the South Bogdanovac industrial zone, and a detailed regulation plan should allow for better use of construction plots in the area. A new plan will create conditions for potential investors. Otherwise, through this programme, Nis, Doljevac, Soko Banja, Major, Vranje, Vladic's Han and Bela Palanka have recently received money from the EU to improve business infrastructure. This is one of the good ways to help the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure, in the first steps in attracting investment, to eventually create new jobs for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47633	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47634	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Construction Products Act, and Article 4. The draft law provides that all matters of procedure which are not governed by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the law which has been governed by the general administrative procedure. Construction, as a complex activity, involves services and processes from design to execution, as well as the installation of finished construction products. In which case, the final result of the facility should in every respect meet the requirements of the safety project, and the end-user. The work of construction is conditioned by the protection of the environment, which is an important factor in sustainable development. Mr. Minister, the largest construction venture certainly represents the construction of Corridor 10, which should ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about Corridor 10, I want to mention the sector south, from Grabovnica to Levosoje, 74.2 kilometers long, on which 107 bridges were built, a total length of 9.4 kilometers. Five traffic loops were built, the Grdelica loop, Vladicin Han, Vranje, Bujanovac 1, Bujanovac 2, while Predejana's loop was in the final phase. The tunnel Predejane Lot3 about a kilometer, construction works completed. The Mannille Lot4 tunnel, 1.8 kilometers, completion of the work, 97%. The tunnel of Caric's Valley, Mannille Lot 5, 6.7 kilometers, the work is finished. I could count it like this, but because of the time at my disposal, I can't take it anymore, so I would like to thank you for your attention and invite my fellow Members to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47635	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47636	Thank you, Chairman. To Article 4. I submit an amendment to the bill in the sense of adding Article 2 – The application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the increase in investment in the economy. Thanks to the responsible policy of our President Alexander Vukic and the Government, Vranje as the headquarters of the Pcinj County is today a major construction site. Serious capital projects are being implemented, and it is certain that the recent completion of Corridor 10 will allow even faster development of Vranja. In addition to serious work on infrastructure equipment of the free zone in Vranje, the surgical block whose construction began 12 years ago will be a regional character for the provision of secondary health care for more than 250,000 residents of the Pcinj County and Kosovo-sea. Seven modern equipment contracts worth more than 50 million dinars have also been signed recently. In addition, the construction of a new kindergarten that will cost about 190 million dinars began in Vranj, and soon the construction of 186 apartments for members of the security service is expected. Also, the reconstruction of railway stations in Vranj and Vranjska Banj is near the end as well as the renovation of the city stadium where the terrain with artificial grass, fence and reflectors was installed. In addition to this stadium, however, Vranje will be given another stadium with about 8,000 seats thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, which will meet the conditions that our football super leaguer Dinamo can play in front of his audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47637	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Tiana Davidovac. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, David's boy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47638	Thank you. Law proposals on the agenda clearly speak about the need for the construction sector to be regulated, because without the developed construction sector, without the development of construction products, we cannot talk about macro-economy stability. Today, we have a record high GDP growth thanks to construction. This is the result of development and investment in construction over the past five years. There are no cities or municipalities where there is no work to build new and renovate existing infrastructure. Today we have a situation that is evenly invested in every city, every municipality and every district. In the municipality of Lazarec from which I come, over 50 kilometers of national, local and untegorized roads were made in 2017 and 2018 alone. Before 2012, no highways were built, toll revenue was a billion dinars in 2012, while in 2017, toll revenue was eight billion dinars. That money goes to the roads, to the maintenance of the highways, but also to the regional roads to their maintenance. Today, we have construction sites throughout Serbia. Before 2012, there were about 300 construction sites in Belgrade and nearly 500 on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have over 33,000 active sites on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and nearly 5,000 of them on Belgrade's territory. These are the results of work seen, thanks to the responsible and committed policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS. The policy of peace and stability led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, co-operation with countries in the region, good neighbourly relations led Serbia to raise its reputation in the world and send a message that we are a suitable place for investment and that we are ready for the recovery of the economy that has been destroyed for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47639	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47640	Thank you, Chairman. In the end, I'm going to recapture the amendments I submitted to the draft law on construction products. Namely, such a comprehensive regulation as the Construction Products Act is regulated to place construction products on the market, which has been confirmed by all entities at the public debates held, so the debate on the draft law was held in Nis on 16 August 2017, where all interested people had the opportunity to hear the concept of a new law on construction products. They had the opportunity to make their views, their remarks, suggestions and suggestions on the text of the bill. Furthermore, we are complianceing our legislation and our regulations with EU regulations with these new laws. So there is harmonisation of this system in the EU, making domestic products and domestic producers competitive on the EU market as well. Such a system is established on the market that only safe and secure construction products that are permanently installed in buildings are placed on the market, thus ensuring the safe use of the facility through the application of technical requirements, defined by standards and technical regulations. Finally, development of construction will be encouraged, in line with modern and modern trends in design and construction. All of this will affect the increase in investment in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47641	Thank you. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Radičević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47642	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 4. The proposal for a law on construction products, where I suggested that item 2, be added with the desire to further define Article 4 of this Act. Only good and quality building materials can provide quality construction. And in order for construction materials to meet certain standards, there must be appropriate legislation, such as this law that we are discussing today. To be built in Serbia today, we all see it. In Aleksinec, a week ago, a bridge was completed at the Žitkova Bar. The value of the works was $350,000. There's no need to talk about the importance of the bridge at all. After many years, it will finally take place in the reconstruction of Lele Popovic Street, up to 5.7km in length. This road route is being done in co-operation with the Road of Serbia and local self-government. Local self-government is working on a water and sewerage network, and Serbia Roads is in August. The value of the investment is 118 million dinars. This way, the route towards Soko Banja will be brought into a decent state. Travel routes are also being made to all sides of the municipality evenly. There's streets in town. The city centre itself is finished, as far as the busiest roads are concerned, and during the following year, a promenade will be arranged. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support all the draft laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47643	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47644	Thank you. The public is well-known that a regional housing programme is being implemented in Serbia, aimed at addressing the housing needs of tens of thousands of refugees and exiled Serbs, who have not yet resolved the key issue of integration, which is the issue of housing. It is also known that two institutions are responsible for the implementation of the programme. These are the Commissioner for Refugees and Project Management. What I particularly want to point out is the fact that these two institutions need far more professional, more efficient and faster to work on the implementation of this programme. The program is implemented very slowly, implemented unqualityly. We have examples of poor housing construction, we have examples of poor construction of editing houses, we have a series of examples of decisions being made for refugee families that they have received on paper either houses or apartments or rural properties or building materials, and then they wait for a year, two, three, to realize it in practice. People are bitter because they often see on television how they are assigned these decisions on resolving the housing issue, and in practice this is slow to go. So my appeal, or request and the Commissioner for Refugees and Project Management Unit, repeat, to respect the deadlines. It is the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia and it is unacceptable that despite these formal decisions on resolving the housing issue, they must wait, as I said, for a year, two, three, to make it happen in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47645	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47646	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers Nedimovic and his fellow Members, dear fellow MPs, Serbia has long coughed when it comes to legal regulation and the adoption of the Law on Construction Products. Many countries before us in the region, in a detailed and detailed way, have regulated this area. The previous government really did not deal with these issues, they were more important to how to do faster, more efficient and better failed projects, how to get rich overnight, how to increase their property map multiplely, but for the citizens, the economy, the quality of construction facilities really didn't care. By adopting this new law, a modern, European law, the economy and manufacturers of construction materials and distributors and investors and projectors will benefit, as well as laboratories for quality assessment. The positive effects of this law will be very soon. They will be very soon visible to the very citizens who live in this country, we will have better built buildings, better built schools, hospitals, kindergartens, bridges, highways. By adopting this law, we won't finish the job. We've got a lot more to do. The resolution ministry, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure will have to adopt sublegal acts within six months of the adoption of this law, and only then will we have defined rules of play and the list of standards, as well as deadlines for their application. By adopting this law and adopting sublegislative acts, we can say that in the coming period this will indeed be a full hit for the Serbian economy, for the state of Serbia, which will invest in the area of construction, define the European standards that we have missed so far. But the ultimate benefit from the application of this law will be citizens living in our country, because they will have better quality schools, hospitals, bridges and highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47647	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucky, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47648	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about the Construction Products Act and what is very important and what we are discussing all this time is exactly this standardisation and this process that has long been expected and that was definitely necessary in our construction industry. What I would like to say more about today is a few infrastructure projects that are not only planned, but, as for some, realisation has already begun to happen, it is a project of a new regional hospital in Prokuplje, for which part of the project documentation is already ready. Why does it matter? Because the current hospital in Prokuplje was built in 1923, or even in spite of quality maintenance, it is no longer able to adequately provide health care in it. This is important because it would really solve the problem of implementing healthcare in the long term and thus raise the hygiene conditions to a much higher level than the current one. In addition to this project, whose realisation is expected at the end of this and early next year, I must stress the importance of the new green market project. The project is worth 200m dinars, funded by the economy ministry's funds, and also from the European Investment Bank's funds. Opening a new market is expected as early as next year. These are two projects that no doubt have, along the highway, along the industrial zone, the greatest importance for the development of our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47649	Thank you. National MP Ivana Stoiljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47650	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that representatives of the alliances of thieves and freebaroac and Latvians are not here, because I could now explain to them what Fascism is in which Bosko Obradovic has stepped deeply. So progress occurs in one country when skilled leaders recognize the chance and take matters into their own hands and turn things around for the better. I think that's what Truman said. In order for the peasants to say they have a good harvest, you must have good seeds, good plowing and good sowing. The times behind us were such that our political opponents, not inexorables, but evildoers, were not about us, but about our own country, they wanted first of all to have a harvest and harvest, but without sowing and without an eagle, without effort. Those times are behind us. I am pleased that the country's progress is recognised and that it is not based on the import of foreign goods for foreign money, which GDP is growing from production and processing. We need to use building materials, natural materials and others to raise farms and processing facilities and renewable energy, to use that energy to modernize farmers’ crops, their sons, who are bold to deal with agriculture, to process it and get a good food product, to modernize agriculture and the food industry, because soon the wealth of a country will not be measured by the amount of gold and diamonds, but by the amount of food and drinking water that that country can produce. Since I have little time left, I would invite Djoku Vukadinovic, who is not there now, who spoke so heartily of agriculture, to attract the electoral body to vote for them, although they are not at all at the National Assembly meetings, as you can see there is no Regional Secretary for Agriculture, Goran Jesic, for months, and here they are taking care of agriculture, the price of diesel, etc. Since I was recommended by this Djoka Vukadinovic, a big farmer from today, that I should sit outside the store and drink beer, here, I invite him to come to me to help me with the trigger. I'll pour diesel. He's got no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47651	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47652	Regarding this problem, I point out that in December of this year, municipalities and cities have to work out the size of the property tax in 2019. Why am I talking about this? Because I think the property tax is one of the reasons that legalization doesn't go as well as we do, and because it doesn't increase the number of people who pay property tax. I have repeatedly spoken here in the Assembly that the volume must increase, and that the individual amount must be reduced. An example is, say, a TV tax. When there were 500 dinars, we used to be here all the time... Many avoided paying for it. When we did it acceptable for every household, 150 dinars, nobody talks about it anymore. So I'm saying that the percentage of 0.4% maximum, which can range from 0.1 to 0.4, that the government makes a decision that it can't be in any municipality, in any city it has to be 0.4, but it has to be smaller. The property tax in 2019 not only cannot be bigger, it must be smaller. It will be an incentive for those who have not legalized their property, legalized and paid their commitment to the state. What's this about? This is one source of income for all municipalities and cities. So they have a personal income tax, they have transfer funds and they have a property tax and it's easy for them to always take that percentage of 0,4, those three offers, etc., not to go into details, and thus provide funds and those who pay, pay always and pay more. If everyone paid, that amount would be much higher, and it could be calculated exactly, and every municipality would say...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47653	You're bringing the end, colleague Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47654	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47655	Well, it's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47656	Here, I'm interrupting. Many others have spoken for more than two minutes. This is the third time, Mr. Arsic, as you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47657	It's nothing personal, Mr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47658	I won't talk anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47659	Here, two minutes and 25 seconds. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47660	Thank you. Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, Honored citizens of Serbia, Article 4. Proposal for a law on construction products and how important it is, as in Article 4. The bill contributes to legal security, businesses and citizens of Serbia. Legal security for both citizens and the economy is one of the basic definitions of Alexander Vukic and SNS. What I want to do with my amendment is to improve economic exchange because by increasing economic exchange, and in particular with regard to construction products, it directly affects the country's economic development, as well as improving the living standards of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and in general improving the environment in the Republic of Serbia from the point of view of attracting all investors, both domestic and foreign. Aleksandar Vukic has restored hope for the lives and work of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I particularly want to point out that he has restored hope to those areas that are small areas, which belong to small local self-government. I'll put it as an example of local self-government. In Priboj, an industrial zone was opened thanks to the local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia, investors came, they opened factories and are operated by citizens of the Priboj municipality. For those who are in severe health conditions, who suffer from kidney disease, for the first time since the arrival of SNS, the citizens of Priboj who go to haemodialysis do not have to travel 60 or 160 kilometers daily, going to Prepolje and Užica, but are already allowed at the health home of Priboj. Also, the SNS enabled better access, better, faster and more efficient access to the citizens of Priboj municipality, because at a time when Minister Nikola Selakovic was returned to the Priboj General Court. Also, I would like to emphasise that, thanks to the arrival of the SNS, thanks to, of course, to the resources of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, OS "Branko Radcevic" in Priboj, local self-government, preschool children's institution and the House of Culture are heated on biomass, so that students and teachers at the "Branko Radcevic" in Priboj do not have to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47661	My colleagues, thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Pantovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47662	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity these days to hear a lot about the results of the ministry's work led by Mrs. Mihajlovic and they are very good. We talked about Corridor 10, about Corridor 11, very important roads that bring Serbia together with the countries of the region and Europe. Within four years, 200km of highways were built, and works on shares of Surcin-Obrenovac, Obrenovac-Ub, Lajkovac-LJig and tours around Belgrade began. A border crossing in the Batrovci has also been expanded, so traffic flow has increased by 50%. The minister announced that the LJubovija-Bratunac border crossing would be united, which will significantly speed up these procedures and significantly speed up traffic flow. It's very important that we take advantage of that potential on our roadways. Also, projects have been announced very important for internal transport, and this would set an example of the announcement of the highway from Preljina to Pojat. What is very important to stress was that it was not only about these very large projects that are often spoken of, but also about rehabilitation of the existing road network, a project of about 1,100km for 390m euros. In this way, traffic safety has improved significantly, speed has increased and we have made it possible to invest in those smaller environments in Serbia, less developed municipalities that are not in these very important roads and highways. I call on my colleagues to support the proposed laws, because they are crucial to our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47663	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47664	Dear Ministers, esteemed fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this amendment's discussion, I will refer only to some works in the area of construction that have been done in the last four months in the area of the city from which I come, which is Novi Sad. As we all know, the new Jell-O Bridge is open to road traffic. The new Željev Bridge is a steel structure, built on five pillars, 474 meters long, 31 meters wide. The first "Lessnine" store in Serbia is being built in Novi Sad. The company's first store will extend to 20,000m2 and employ more than 150 people at first. The facility for old and adult faces in Futoga, the suburban settlement from which I come, the Gerontological Centre Novi Sad has been reconstructed, upgraded and most modernly equipped thanks to the financial support of the city of Novi Sad and AP Vojvodina. It is a dedicated modern shelter for temporary care of persons who are in a state of social need and who are acutely threatened. A new facility at Ilarion Ruvarac and Bulevar Patriarch Pavel's corner has begun to operate. The building is 3,250 meters and a truly magnificent building. I could so count, it wouldn't all matter in two minutes, as much as I have the right to discuss, and this is just a small part of what, both in Novi Sad and throughout Serbia, is building and doing. That's how responsible people do it, Alexander Vukic, Milos Vukevic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47665	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47666	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the Construction Products Act aimed at speeding up the construction industry in Serbia, which is indeed a major growth. How have we come to the fact that construction and investment have even seen so much growth in Serbia? Well, first of all, the great reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that the best indicator of how we've been doing just "Duing Business List", the ease of operating by the World Bank, where according to the 2018 report we're taking the 43rd place, which is indeed a great success, because it is the 43rd place of the 190 economies monitored by the World Bank and that is progress for as many as 48 positions in three years and the best result since 2007, since Serbia and ranked. This list is a good indicator. Why? Because it is designed so that it does not take into account all the conditions of business, but rather, for example, Ten key areas resulting from state policies and the way these policies are implemented, hence, from the start of business, from obtaining construction permits, from getting connections to electricity, from registering assets, from getting credit, from protecting minority shareholders, from paying taxes, from cross-border trade, from carrying out contracts and from resolving bankruptcy. Here, I have here from the World Bank site one table from which we can see where Serbia is, so Serbia is 43rd relative to Hungary, which is 48, compared to Bulgaria, which is 50, compared to Croatia, which is 51st and the regional average. Indeed, one good progress and what is important is that the progress on the "Ding Business List" means that the laws that regulate the business environment are really good and that they are more efficient, which certainly contributes to everything I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47667	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47668	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when I tried to bring serious investors into the city at the beginning of the two-thousands as mayor of the Kings, to substitute the fact that all major industrial systems, such as the Magnochrom Car Factory, are clear, and not to list further, so to speak, were, unfortunately, destroyed, their response has always been negative, for two reasons, two key reasons. One is the lack of traffic infrastructure and the fact that the city of Kralje and the rest of central Serbia are bound by the highway of death to Belgrade and northern Serbia, the Ibar highway. This was one of the key reasons why they did not accept to be serious investors in the King. The second reason was the lack of adequate legislative certainty, as the investor expects to be sure when investing capital in Serbia. Yet we are witnesses, and anyone well-intentioned sees it clearly, serious changes in Serbia for the better. This home has passed a dozen good laws that regulate this matter, restore security to potential investors, and we are also witnessing the fact that Corridor 11, Corridor 12, also in the announcement of the Moravia Corridor, also provides the conditions necessary for investors to come to Serbia. Thanks to this, the King is today a city with hope, and here are two factories that, hopefully soon, will go to work, providing work for 7,500 people. Therefore, full support for the efforts of the president, the government and all those doing good to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47669	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47670	Thank you. The intensity of my amendment is to point to the constant need to strengthen the investment climate as preconditions for Serbia's development. Investments themselves represent some kind of cash expenditure on capital goods, which will allow for new production of goods or services or, in short, the accumulation of the present with a hope of winning in the future. However, for any financial expenditure you must have a healthy source and sound finances. I here, of course, think, first of all, of public finances. A serious monetary policy, which has started since 2014 with the government of Aleksandr Vukic, has enabled this monetary spending, i.e. these healthy public finances have enabled monetary expenditure for Serbia's investment and development. However, Serbia cannot say that it is developed and satisfied until its people living in the environment are developed, that is, until the improvement is felt by those living in the environment. I felt it was important to point out that this government and this president were initiators and bearers of the investments that the Republic of Serbia had for the first time in its modern history when it comes to Republika Srpska, or our compatriots living on the other side of Drina. I would remind you that from 2014 until today, the Republic of Serbia has invested in Republika Srpska about 21m euros in direct investments and donations, ninem euros have been invested in projects from Novi Grad to Trebinje in the last 20 months alone. Knowing what it is and developmental, but if you will, ultimately, and a serious and responsible political move, we are certainly ready to continue in the next period, in order for the government to continue this trend and at this pace, support all the legislative proposals and all the legal solutions that come before this parliament, so that all together create a basis for a further continuation and for further steps in this direction when it comes to Republika Srpska, but also all of our countrymen living in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47671	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47672	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The law on construction products, wanting to point out how much this law has to do with investment policy. For the first time in a unique way, this law regulates the market for construction products, raises the quality of materials used, as it builds roads, bridges, railways, buildings and all buildings built in Serbia, but allows for more favourable prices for investors due to the competition of bidders and makes domestic investors competitive on the EU country market, because it raises the quality of these construction products to the EU country's standard. The adoption of this law will facilitate the implementation of a framework agreement on economic and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in the area of infrastructure projects, which is also on the agenda of these days, because the Republic of Serbia and Hungary have continued co-operation aimed at the infrastructure development of the two countries, and will certainly facilitate the construction of one of the largest infrastructure projects in this part of Europe, which is building a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest that will connect Serbia with the modern EU countries in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47673	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47674	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on construction products, which reads - by applying this law, encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving economic resources. The current legal framework that regulated the new area was not in line with EU rules, which has created major problems for economic operators who have had double costs in proving that they meet the prescribed requirements of the Republic of Serbia and the EU. This has also led to the incompetence of domestic producers and bodies assessing the conformity of products with foreign markets. Additional costs have also been incurred by businesses that have adapted their business to EU rules and which operate on both domestic and foreign markets due to the application of double procedures. The draft law on construction products provides full compliance of domestic legislation with EU rules and thus regulates all those problems and facilitates business and reduces costs. This will result directly in further development of this area in our country, but our producers will also become more competitive on the foreign market. The proposal for a law on construction products clearly defines the obligations of all actors in placing products on the market, in all phases of the process from production to installation, defining a clear division of responsibilities. Taking into account all of the above, the draft law on construction products significantly improves the economic resources of the Republic of Serbia and contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47675	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47676	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 4. I would like to propose adding the 2nd position -- the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector. It's very important that as a state, we maintain stability and go in the right direction. All of this can be achieved only if we continue to follow the vision of Alexander Vukic and the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There is indeed a lot that can be said in favour of the fact that, finally after many years, Serbia and all citizens can clearly see the improvement. One of these examples is certainly the development of construction. We are witnessing how many projects are being built, not only in Belgrade, but also in other Serbian cities. In this way, we are directly but indirectly promoting the private sector. I will only list some examples of companies in Arangelovac that have seen a sharp growth in production, exports and the number of employees over the past few years. The company "Pestan", "Bekament", "Stubline", "Universe" and others dealing with the creation of construction products employ several thousand people in Arangelovac. Today, they apply to highly recognizable and significant companies at international level, whose focus is exports to many foreign markets with an improvement in the demands of each individual customer, but above all on respect for standards and quality. The municipality of Arangelovac has made great progress in economic and financial parameters. Finally, at the end of 2017, the management of the municipality of Arandelovac achieved 20.2m euros in surpluses, of which 95.6m euros in exports and 75.4m euros in imports, making it clear that private companies are developing, thereby increasing demand not only for goods and services but also for new jobs. A significant drop in unemployment has been observed in Arangelovac in the last year. At 5,800 unemployed in two years, the number fell to 4,120 unemployed, which means that it could soon come to a historic level from a few decades ago, and when the municipality of Arangelovac had a smaller number... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47677	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47678	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of conditions for placing on the market 35 areas of construction products has a significant impact on all participants in the construction product market, from industry to investors, designers, producers, to supervisory authorities. One of the objectives of this law is to increase the volume of exports of construction products, but also to raise the level of project implementation in the area of infrastructure. One of the strategic goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the completion of Corridor 10 and 11, is building a 110km-long section of the highway from Pojat to Preljin in the area of capital investment. This traffic station will connect several cities, i.e. connect corridors 10 and 11. It is doubtless that building this highway will lead to better living conditions for about 500,000 citizens living in this part of Serbia, as well as attracting more investors, employment of young people and growth in the economy. Bringing this, as well as other laws in the area of construction, will contribute to greater economic activity, increasing the number of employees, greater competitiveness on the market and to the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47679	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47680	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since my amendment applies to investment in the economy, I must stress that the basic conditions for attracting both domestic and foreign investors are precisely the realisation of infrastructure projects. In this regard, I would like to point out that last week in Vranja, Prime Minister Mrs Ana Brnabic announced that it would be singled out of the Republic of Serbia's 200 billion dinar budget in 2019 to realise infrastructure projects. The funds that will be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2019 relate to the construction of major traffic stations, and to the completion of the construction of Corridor 10, 11, to the start of the construction of the Moravian corridor, then to the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway and the fast track of Belgrade-Budapest. How important the Construction Products Act, which we are discussing these and previous weeks, is the fact that this law will bring quality and cheaper products, and these products will be installed in apartments for security forces. So 8,086 apartments will be built by 2020, and that is also one third of all the requirements submitted by security forces. Also, our country will subsidise and purchase apartments for municipalities and cities within Serbia, with the aim of preventing the outflow of the population that has been present for the past 30 years. Therefore, the government policy of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS is the growth, development and higher standard of living for all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47681	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47682	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have, in practice, the usual everyday practice of the conduct of opposition MPs of the yellow variant, where instead of 62, only one sits in benches. They come in the morning, half an hour, the hour, they tell the truth, they attack with all kinds of unargued lies, and then they leave. And most of the day the Assembly doesn't have them in the O.R. In addition to something that shows valuable, dedicated work by the government and President Vukic, for the sake of citizens to read that the Republic Statistics Institute announced that the average net salary in Serbia for August was 49,773 dinars, which is equivalent to 421 euros and that statistics showed that in the first eight months, from January to August, there was an increase compared to 2017 5.8 % of the wage growth nominally, or realistically 3.8 %, so that net earnings for August amounted to around 39,000. So, from these statistics from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, we see that progress has been made in wage growth. Of course, we all know that this is insufficient, but the continued work and efforts of the Government in all segments of the economic, investment and legislative work will sustain this continuing progress in wage growth with the aim of improving citizens' standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47683	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47684	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, all these days we hear criticism of the opposition that we are boasting and SNS what we have done. I'm proud to brag, because we've really done a lot of things. Local self-government Sokobanje, where I come from, just a month ago signed a commission agreement worth 29 million dinars, and this project will, in fact, be financed by the Resolute Ministry of Economy. The area covered by this combination is 956 hectares and will take place in two stages. The first phase is 8.5 million dinars. The number of participants is 1,880, which is a very demanding job and requires co-operation with other resolution ministries. The local government of Sokobanja as one of the tourism leaders in Serbia recognized that agriculture, apart from tourism, is very important, given that our citizens, except for tourism, have nothing more to do with employment. And, in this way, we promote agriculture and promote the employment of people so that they can place their agricultural products on the guests who visit Sokobanju. In addition to this contract, the municipal administration has allocated 7.5m from the budget for the adaptation of ataric roads across all local communities and has already completed this 40km-long project. But we didn't stop there, a 13.5 million contract was concluded for performers to get all the Atari roads in order, because they haven't been renewed for years, they've grown up to be weaker and they're no longer useful for farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47685	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47686	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected ministry representatives, respected fellow MPs, are rapidly building traffic stations, restoring Serbia's reputation in the world, restoring trust with investors, who have been destroyed in the past, increasing economic potentials. That's what my amendment applies to. By the end of 2020, the draft budget law provides for around 250 billion dinars or more than 2 billion euros to be spent on the country's most important investments. This investment in the area of infrastructure, according to experts, but also statistics, has a major impact on growth in the construction sector, and thus on GDP growth. For the last three years in Serbia, much has been done both in low construction and high construction. We have a high-school workforce, where we were recognizable in the world, ceramics, water-building workers are engaged, hotels, apartments, hydropower plants are built, which makes a significant contribution to our industry. The time of darkness is behind us. We're going back to the world's construction scene now. To point out another thing, it is that a representative of the World Bank in Serbia praised the results of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, noting that Serbia is a model for countries in the region to turn the challenges into opportunities for progress. One of the SNS slogans is right – faster, stronger, better, and it's not just a parole, it's a life motto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47687	I would like to thank my colleague St. Jovanovic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by the People's Ensigned Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47688	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers of Associates, in the past few days we have had the opportunity to hear through the proposed laws in detail all the problems, results and plans that are connected and what can we hear? Disregarding the opposition whenever we pointed out how much we did and how many projects were planned, and the results we achieved were really impressive and it's no wonder we have to hear anything that would distract the citizens from what we're talking about, even if it's not true. What's really true? We remember all of Serbia's citizens and anyone who drove our roads or tracks as everything seemed until the SNS showed what serious work and planning of the future meant. Until a few years ago, I ran a company that worked on providing facilities and property on Serbia's territory, including the Serbian Railways, and I say it really took great courage and tenacity to bring the railway into order. Instead of a bunch of abandoned trains and wagons that we could see on the passenger and ranger stations, we now have modern trains. The tracks were in a catastrophic state and so derelict that the new trains we bought couldn't develop the speed for which they were trained. Passenger stations – shame. Tunnels unsecured, insecure for traffic. The untapped loans that the previous government left us only filled someone's pockets and left us with problems. Today we have hundreds of miles of reconstructed railways, dozens of new trains and wagons and renovated stations. We're developing a railroad, which means we're developing a business. We have a better connection both in Serbia and with countries in the region. That's why I congratulate you and wish you further success in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47689	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47690	Thank you, Chairman. Since I'm from the Voždovac municipality, I'm going to say what for this short period of six years was done on the Voždovac municipality among other things, because I need one three, four, five hours to count. First of all, 80 kilometers of untegorized roads from Kumodraž to Ripnja were paved, sidewalks were reconstructed, main streets were reconstructed in the village of Podaval, Beli Potok, Pinosavi and Kumodraž village. The reconstruction of the master road Ripanj – Barajevo in length of 14 km is under way. It's a done trip. In Ripnje, 70km of water network was built. An open pump station Draženvac, enabling the entire village to be watered because they had no drinking water until then. Only 10% had drinking water, unfortunately. A small morning sewerage network has been built, connecting about 300 households in the Jajinci settlement, which the citizens have been waiting for for for decades. In the Jajinci, the Elezovite Collector was also built to serve as the main sewer drainer, had no people or sewers, for the podium villages, or for 35,000 people who had septic pits. A kumodran rain collector was built and thus solved the problem of draining rainwater for 20,000 inhabitants. Also, the first Ikea opened in Serbia, of course, was brought by our president, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the arrival of the Swedish company brought Belgrade and Vozdovac a 10m-euro infrastructure. More than two kilometers of traffic, three circular flows, almost two kilometers of new public lighting, a brand-new riverbed, a wastewater treatment plant, more than five thousand metres of water and sewerage nets, 60 thousand square meters of green areas. Employment has been made possible for 400 people, and the entire divider part of the city will have better infrastructure. Also, the Vozdovac municipality has launched an initiative to form a large business industrial zone at 40 hectares along the Belgrade-Nish highway, and future tours at the Bubanj stream. The business complex is a logical continuation of the economic zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47691	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47692	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, Mr Ministers with Associates, this law and the amendment, if the government accepts it, will contribute to the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs in this large home and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is respected, our President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. Dear Ministers, the most recent example of the destruction of state and construction companies is the decision of a small interest group gathered around the former DOS government and former resolution minister Dr Dragoslav Šumarac, when Serbia suddenly ran out of so many state-owned companies under the pretext that they are inequitable and do not have crafts. The former regime gentlemen have complained to us today and yesterday that we're hiring to shut down SNS personnel. That's not true, that's what they did, they act the way they acted when they were in power. I will quote the esteemed MP Goran Jesic, who, by the way, is not in this high house, who, in 17 September 2014, said, quote – Goran Pajtic, in the Executive Council, hired aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, scurvys and godmothers and from 670 employees in the Executive Council to 2700, finished quote. That's not what I said. That's what Mr. Jesic said. Dear Mr. Djoko Vukadinovic, a.k.a. Vlah, escapes now, I call him to apologize, because on October 17th, he said, I quote - as a respected colleague Risticevic should in a normal country dig a field, drink beer in front of the store, and make a point, and he is a folk MP here. It also speaks of what kind of society this is and what kind of country this is. I invite him to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47693	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47694	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 4. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on construction products, adding a new position on two, which encourages the development of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to improving economic development. Construction is a complex activity that involves services and processes from design to construction of works, as well as the installation of finished construction products, where the finished buildings need in every respect to meet the requirements of the project and the safety of end-users. The conditionality of construction, the protection of the environment, is an important factor in sustainable development. Building modern traffic and highways, our country's high standards are respected and environmental protection regulations, as well as other safety regulations, both housing and traffic facilities. I want to look again at the importance of the highway to Corridor 11 for economic development and the quality of life for the people of western Serbia. When we have a highway from Belgrade to Požega in about three years, the positive effects for the progress and prosperity of all Western Serbia, as well as the region and beyond, will be immeasurable. Also, in addition to the exceptional importance of the highway in Corridor 11, I would mention the possibility of future development of air traffic in the Western Serbia region, through the completion of the reconstruction of the Poniqua airport, located 18km northwest of Užica near the famous tourist destinations of Zlatibor, Zlatar, Tara, Wekra Gora, and near the border of BiH. I believe that the airport of Ponykva would contribute to the development of this part of the country, both through passenger and through the possibilities of launching a plane, a cargo traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47695	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47696	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected gentlemen, the path of Serbia towards joining the EU implies, in addition to many other reform procedures, the preparation for opportunities and demands of a competitive common market. This requires great commitment to the quality of products and services. The conformity assessment as one of the main elements of national infrastructure quality implies checking that products, services, materials, systems and personnel comply with the requirements of standards, regulations and other specifications. In order to bring domestic legislation into line with the legal assets of the EU, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure within its responsibilities to implement the national programme for the adoption of the EU law should implement the transposition, i.e. the transport of the Construction Products Regulation No 305/2011 to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the law of the Republic of Serbia, which is exactly what we are doing today. Given that the regulation lays down harmonised conditions for placing on the market close to 40 families of construction products, its importance for the construction industry of the Republic of Serbia, for investors, designers, performers, bodies for assessing compliance, the supervisory authorities are enormous.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47697	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47698	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, in Article 4. The proposal for a law on construction products is added to Article 2 which reads - the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to improving economic exchange. The proposed amendment that the emphasis on the importance of construction and construction industry is a significant segment of the economy of every country in the world. Construction is primarily a labor intensive food that employs a large number of workers. The experiences of other countries in the world have shown that in difficult economic conditions in the country, increased construction activity significantly alleviates and solves unemployment problems. On the other hand, it is undoubtedly a multiple fact of construction on growth and the development of other economies. Construction absorbs a large part of the production of other branches of industry, primarily industry, which directly contributes to the growth of production of other industries, but also contributes to the overall development of each country. The state and development of construction and construction industry are directly linked to these investments. I call upon all MPs to support this set of laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47699	Comrade Kostic, I can tell you that your discussion is even better than yesterday, and you really surprised me today. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47700	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Nedimovic with associates, through the implementation of the local employment action plan since 2013, the town of Leskovac has so far singled out around 130 million dinars and the National Employment Service 21.3 million dinars. 243 small companies, including today 190, were opened and 296 workers were employed by a private employer. For 214 young people, 96 of them, with an average score of over nine, it is possible to carry out professional practice, as well as for 118 persons with an average below nine. The city has made it possible to perform public works and employ 196 people. Through the Leskovec Youth Fund, 1,614 young talents were awarded, for which 55 million dinars were singled out. Through the Youth and Programmes Office – activate, play for winning and summer workshops, as well as prize excursions, the town of Leskovac has singled out 10 million dinars. Dear Minister Nedimovic, in the subsidisation of agricultural producers since 2013, 127 million dinars have been invested in the town of Leskovac. The subsidy was granted to 3,320 owners. In 2017 alone, 820 requirements were filed which were paid by the end of the year. Through the field electrification project, 65.6 million donations were invested. More than 37km of electricity was built and 220 land units in five villages were given the opportunity to irrigate electricity. So far, 86 million dinars have been invested in the process of cohesion. 167km of atar roads have been made, for which more than 60 million dinars have been allocated. In this year, the value for the Atari roads is 27 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47701	Thanks, buddy. You weren't as good as your colleague Kostic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47702	Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on construction products and it reads - in Article 4. The draft law on construction products, paragraph 2 is added: the application of this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to promotion and investment. Otherwise, Article 4 of this Act bears the title – the subsidiary application of the rules and determines that all matters which are not governed by this Act shall be subject to the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. I would now continue with the investment that the Municipality of Velika Plana, supported by the Ministry of Energy, received in 2017 in a competition for improving energy efficiency, a donation for the rehabilitation of the Masuka Culture Centre, which is under the protection of the state. The Centre for Culture building was built away in 1968 and has not suffered a larger recovery since then, so this donation brought back its old glow, as one of the most beautiful buildings in the city centre. In this investment, the ministry participated with 1,376,000 dinars, and the UN's participation in the development of 3,607,000 dinars, as well as the participation of local self-government of 5,685,000 dinars. The reconstruction and adaptation of the Centre for Culture building carried out works on a complete facade with adequate insulation material. The old and spent wooden carpentry was replaced with a brand new aluminum, and a brand-new substation was built in the boiler room, which fully meets all energy efficiency standards. For all that has been done in the Municipality of the Great Plan, as well as other municipalities, which we have heard these days, the last few years have been done thanks to the policies of President Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47703	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47704	Dear Vice-President Arsic, Ministers Nedimovic with his associates, fellow MPs, the Construction Products Act regulates the conditions for placing on the market and making available on the market of construction products, forming a declaration of performance and placing a sign of conformity on construction products, obligations of temporary entities, technical regulations for construction products and Serbian technical specifications. Simplified body procedures for the technical assessment of construction products, an important document on the assessment and verification of the continuity of construction products and signs of conformity issued abroad and other issues of importance for the area of construction products. By passing this law, the Republic of Serbia will help companies involved in the production of construction materials, get into a foreign market, and thus contribute to increasing labour employability, and exports will make Serbia's economic indicators even better. This government, like President Aleksandar Vukic, makes an effort every day, to make production in all segments a daily increase, as well as in the production of construction products. In voting day, I ask my fellow MPs to pass the laws that have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47705	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47706	I thank the chairman. And I have submitted this amendment in order to improve the law, which I usually find extremely good and that I will vote for when it comes to it. Serbia will for the first time receive a regulation that regulates a specific area. Construction material manufacturers, distributors, investors, designers, as well as quality assessment laboratories will feel the effects of the new Construction Products Act. Changes will be visible to all participants. In the shortest case, manufacturers will be obliged to examine their products, have different obligations in the matter of aesthetising them, and obligations will be on the issue of continuity, performance, etc. They'll have to provide product control on their own, but they're also hiring someone for it. The newspapers will feel the control bodies. They will change the focus of work, instead of taking samples of examinations, they will monitor, change methods and frequency of testing, etc. The goal of all will be safe and permanent building material. The built objects will be safer, and this means that even the end users will be more satisfied. We will all be safer that safe, quality and permanent materials are installed in roads and houses at all. Manufacturers will be obliged to make final products, which they place on the market and which will be installed in buildings, products quality and documents, through competent institutions, laboratories and certification bodies, prove the quality and regularity of the product. The acquisition of a building material certificate affects its properties normally. If the construction product does not meet the given standards, it will not be able to obtain the required certificate. The law will provide citizens with security regarding hazardous materials, materials that meet the required standards will be used to build construction facilities. That's why I suggest we pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47707	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47708	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Unlike some wicked MPs in the Trieste area, who said this law applies to doors and windows, I believe it does not apply to doors and windows. It refers to very important construction products. This law, just like all the laws we have recently passed, is just like the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia, in one single goal, in recovery, both economically and comprehensively recovered from the Republic of Serbia. If that were true, I'd take examples again and sublime what I've been saying these days according to all the amendments, and as far as the locals are concerned, the city of the Kings. What is done and what are projects at this moment too far-fetched, which will begin with its realization early next year, the Moravski Corridor. Serbia's corridors are working intensively on it. Opening and building two factories. The construction of "Eurotay" is completed, somewhere at the start of the construction of "Leonija". Then, what I particularly appreciate, because I think it's my child, urban regeneration, the recovery of a part of the city of the Kings. The overpass goes slowly, but it goes well because we have identified many shortcomings and we do not want Italy to happen to us, athletic stadium, football stadium, construction of a closed swimming pool, residential settlement for security forces, building the foundation of St. Sava School, after 45 years of changing the temporary wooden barracks, not to speak, I will finalise with the airport "St. Sava" Kraljevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47709	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Aleksandra Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47710	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues, through Article 4 or Article 1, respectively, have been defined to apply the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure to all matters which are not governed by this law. At the very beginning of the amendment's interpretation, I must tell you that definitely the building is initiating the Serbian economy, and most importantly, there has been a constant trend in growth in the construction industry in the last four years, especially in 2018. An additional momentum on the construction sector, which is now recording a significantly larger share of Serbia's GDP, will also give the legislation a pass, as well as changes and additions to the existing ones, related to the sector. I can't not mention the biggest project in the market to be implemented in the next period, which is building cheap apartments for military and police members. It's the kind of projects that give construction companies and their subcontractors their hands full. As new construction is also engaged by a large number of accompanying activities, this shows that the building is a driver for growth and development of the entire economy. Experts and investors praise the adoption of laws and possible changes to regulations, which are not now dead letter on paper, but are brought in to apply and to protect citizens and secure themselves at the moment when they think about jobs, related to construction products or realising them. It is very important that every citizen of the Serbian state knows that the law protects him, which is also defined by this member. By adopting a series of laws, we have managed to improve the business environment and show that we are a serious and orderly state, and this has inevitably reflected the growing interest of foreign companies in investing in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote on the bill in the day of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47711	Thanks, buddy. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47712	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 4th Article of the Bill on Construction Products, to further define the member mentioned, and in particular to see better access to economic resources. Responsible management, implementing the SNS programme, intensively works, implements projects, especially taking into account the spending of citizens' money, and this is carefully approached and today we have a surplus in the budget. The draft law on the agenda also discusses responsible work and work exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens. The Construction Products Act regulates the conditions for placing on the market of construction products. Each construction product in Serbia will have to have a clear performance declaration on it and will have to bear a sign of product compliance, as evidence that it is produced in accordance with international and domestic standards. This is important because the great efforts of President Alexander Vukic are directed at the development of our market and the export of our products. The rules will apply to investors, manufacturers, importers, construction products distributors, certification bodies, projectors, etc. This will fundamentally approach the analysis of each area and will lead to potential abuses, and thus create problems in the area of construction. That is why the SNS will vote for this and other proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47713	Thank you, colleague. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to let you know that the time provided for in Article 158, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and concerns the applicants of the amendments spent, so that only the MPs who, on some other basis, remain entitled to this right may appear. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Branimir Jovanovic, Jasmina Karanac and Predrag Jelenkovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Parliament's MPs of the SDS together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to the 59th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 63rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to the 64th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to the 65th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 70th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To the title above Article 72 of the amendment, with a correction of 22 October 2018, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and no statement on the correction of the amendment was made. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the amendments have not been made known. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment in the basic text is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the amendments have not been made known. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47714	I accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47715	Thank you. I find that the amendment has been accepted by the correction and has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the SDS together submitted the amendments to Article 72. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Planning and Construction Laws You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians, together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Dinic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic jointly submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians, together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47716	Thank you. I'm sorry that I interrupted this fluid reading of our chairman, who a little reminds me of when prayer is being read in church, but simply so that the citizens or the public who are following know what it is, because of the practice I've talked about here many times, we are now in a situation that the amendments that have been submitted by colleagues with best intentions cannot be simply discussed. I thank the ministry and the people of the ministry who have read this amendment, which they have approved, this amendment. So someone in the ministry is reading it and I'm paying attention that it's one of my only amendments to this set of laws and that one amendment has been adopted. So much for who's serious and who's serious about this job, no matter how much it won't change, but it's just a legal-technical matter. I see that some colleagues are insolent, it seems that you prefer to be read only by some colleagues across the street, that only these amendments are read, rather than debated seriously. If there were more goodwill, if the amendments had not been submitted as they were tolerated, we could now talk about others. So, I thank and thank you for having looked at these amendments in that ministry, looking at and seeing what is helping, which contributes to improving the text, but generally, the overall quality, I would say in the end, and the legislative proposal, and this debate would certainly have been better if it hadn't been for that maneuver already being applied since December of last year, and that is that it's a senseless waste of time to submit those amendments that serve only to spend those 600 minutes scheduled for discussion. We've heard a lot of things in that period. I've heard a lot of things on my own, and today here, now, a little bit of an hour, both yesterday and the previous days, but I think, in the end, whether God sees, whether they see citizens or don't see it, whether it's being valorized at the end, we'll see. In any case, I think it's much better to focus our discussion on the essence, not to talk about what's not relevant and what has nothing to do with the subject, just to waste time. What hit me the most, in addition to the various other unfair accusations, is a calling or an illusion that I'm underestimating the peasants or the village. Instead of trying to dissuade me and telling the truth that I underestimate the village and the peasants, it is better that they focus on it, because I see that some of the many things I mentioned today that, unfortunately, only Serbia from countries in the region has no incentive to make this expensive fuel more favourable and that in different ways can come out to farmers. It would be a much more serious contribution than if someone were to crash into the chest here and talk about their peasant background...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47717	Please, Mr. Vukadinovic, talk about your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47718	Look, I'm talking about the amendment a lot more than most colleagues here have talked about their amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47719	I didn't know that excises on fuel had anything to do with your amendment, especially since the Excise Act didn't change until 2011. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47720	Mr. Chairman, of course, but since in such discussions... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47721	So you're talking to the government that was in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47722	Some excise duties, meanwhile, have been updated, changed, introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47723	They're not at fuel prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47724	I'm talking about electricity excises. So, as you know, when you already mention excise duties, the government has the possibility, Mr. Chairman, the government has the possibility of giving up excise duty by its regulation, so there will be no. But the point isn't how much beer has to do with it outside the store, how much it has to do with the plowing and the chickens that were mentioned here...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47725	Comrade Vukadinovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47726	Mr. Chairman, it's your right, but everyone sees you abuse that right. Let me finish, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to be reminded of one or the other...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47727	I give you a second warning. Comrade Vukadinović, you are walking through the National Assembly and you are addressing MPs who have been sitting here for three or four days, all day and plus you are giving yourself the right to speak outside the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47728	Mr. Chairman, you have a record in your presence, you can make sure that I am more here than many colleagues of the ruling coalition...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47729	I take away your word, Mr. Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich. Marko Djurisic: What does this look like? On what grounds was he given a warning? I also give you a reminder. Marko Djurisic: What did he do? How can you not be ashamed? I also give you a second warning. And you, Mr. Djurishic, walked to the O.R. and now you find yourself here to throw and shout. I'd appreciate it if you'd come here this morning at 10:00, as well as all the MPs. You don't have to give the quorum and I'm not asking you to. You don't have to listen to the MPs, but don't salt our minds about what the agenda is and what who did it, because I've been sitting here since this morning, and days ago. Anyone else want a word by amendment? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47730	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, buildings and materials are very important for farmers. There's a big lie here, and it's about the incentives in agriculture. At a time when a previous speaker was scheduled to talk about construction materials, from 2003 to 2012, he praised on all televisions the power that allocated 106m to 170m euros annually, to use a rougher term, almost dislocated the jaws, burning such power. Today, I don't know why, as he says, he's doing the job with the attention of a good expert. So today he won't say that this government stands out from 280m to 309m euros a year, which is between 130m and 186mm higher than the government he praised every day. Instead of talking about building material, he speaks, as I have already said, with the attention of a good expert. As good as he's an expert, I'm just going to show it like this. This is an offer for Serbia's lottery. He's denying it. He says so - the contract says he'll do the job with the attention of a good expert. In his offer of new Serbian political thoughts or new Vlach political thoughts, I don't know if he crossed and wrote the following -- that the offer is quarterly, after four months. Well, I didn't know that the Vlach calendar in one quarter had four months. That's the attention of a good expert who's charged two million and four hundred thousand dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47731	Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians, together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 30 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure submitted a Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47732	I accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47733	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since both the committees responsible and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives have adopted this amendment, it becomes an integral part of the bill. The 33rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am now setting a break until 4:00 p.m. when, in accordance with Article 205, we will have a session to continue the questions. The debate in particular will continue immediately after the parliamentary questions have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47734	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. According to Article 205. I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be established in accordance with current practice, first of all by MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group and then by MPs from least to the largest parliamentary group. We start by asking questions. First, MP Muamer Zukorlic, who is not in the O.R., signed up, then Ambassador Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47735	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Prime Minister and members of the government, I would like to ask a question on behalf of SVM MPs and that of the Prime Minister, Mrs Ani Brnabic, and the question concerns PIO farmers. For years, SVM MPs have been dealing with the problem of all farmers in Serbia who have managed smaller areas and who have nothing to pay for PIO and many nor health insurance. I don't want to talk about how much the debt of agricultural producers towards the state, I don't want to blame anyone for the situation, I just want to talk about the problem being present and we from SVM want to solve this issue. The fact is that we have a huge number of farmers who land on a surface less than five acres or don't land on those surfaces, but they rent them out. These farmers have very modest incomes and have nothing to pay for neither PIO nor health insurance, which is at an annual level of around 100,000 dinars. Of course, if we look at the amount of contributions, it can be said that this is very little, at least in Serbia, but we must also be aware that the farmer who handles, for example, two hectares does not have so many incomes at the annual level of which he could pay these amounts. The manufacturers, therefore, have nothing to pay for these contributions, everyone knows that, but unfortunately, no one reacts. I ask you, honourable Prime Minister, did you discuss this problem with the IMF, since debt is planned revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the state cannot collect these funds, because producers simply have nothing to pay for these amounts? We're interested in what you can do as Prime Minister on this matter, since this is an inter-resorious complex issue? In order to address this problem, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Tax Administration and the PIO Fund should be involved. Otherwise, resolving this problem is in a coalition agreement, concluded between SNS and SVM, from which so far many things have been resolved jointly and from agreed priorities in the area of agriculture almost everything, only to resolve this issue of pension and disability insurance for farmers. It is clear to everyone that they make contributions that farmers need to pay in terms of income and land size, that they all pay the same amounts for PIO and those who own half a hectare and those who land on a hundred acres, this doesn't make sense, it can't work. What was done on this matter? Changing the Law on PIO one member is obliged to pay these amounts. There were also reprogrammes in 2014 and 2016. A task force has been formed. What we're interested in, Mrs. Brnabic, when can we expect this issue to be resolved?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47736	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47737	Thank you. We are of course, this is a big problem for farmers in the Republic of Serbia, for the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. The problem is, I think, decades ago. As you said, we, or the Ministry of Agriculture, have formed a task force to work on establishing a new model of social security, and above all PIO insurance. That's what we do in collaboration with the World Bank. We've had these conversations with the IMF. What is important to me to tell you, and you probably know it, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the farmers know that this country is responsible and that the government is responsible for them, it is that according to the information that we now have for 2017, the annual expenditure on the rights of the PIO Fund for Agricultural Pensions and the remaining rights was a total of 69 billion 689 million 195 thousand 148 dinars, but about 30 billion dinars. The contribution covers only 9%. The budget provides 91% of the expenditure on these rights, i.e. almost 27 billion dinars. On behalf of the PIO contribution alone, this decades-long debt is over 160 billion dinars, over a billion and 300m euros. We intend to solve this through the task force and what the analysis has shown is certainly the cause of this condition, above all the inadequate regulation of mandatory inclusion in the PIO insurance system, that is, the fact that you have to own 0.5 hectares of agricultural land, minimum, but there is no difference. So, we're working on this. As you can see, I expect even though it's a very difficult job and if it is decades old, we'll solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47738	Do you want an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47739	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. What is important for us Members of the SVM, to enable and reprogramme, for example. from 1 January 2019 and that the programme lasts at least one year. In 2016, the programme lasted all four months not full. It would be good now to get the reprogramme back, and most importantly, to allow all agricultural producers who want the principal to pay off immediately, to write off their interest, and of course, those who don't have enough funds to pay off the principal, to allow them to reprogramme and to pay off the payments in wars. Currently, the tax administration, it is another problem, the tax administration puts a mortgage on agricultural land for all agricultural producers with debts. It's also another huge problem. So they can't sell that land. We have to keep an eye on what the IRS is doing, or the Ministry of Finance, because if you put a mortgage on that agricultural land and someone puts it on auction, it's going to create huge problems. We have to make sure it doesn't come to that. We have to take care of the smallest manufacturers, we have to make a variety of categories, according to our proposal, namely, those who own less than 5 ha, they can't possibly have enough revenue to pay for these contributions. We have experts who can be involved in solving this problem. We therefore urge the Government to include this task force in solving these problems, which is most important, which deals with this topic. There we, SVM MPs, are ready to participate in all this. We're just asking you to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible. We think this is going to be good for the state, too, if we solve all of this, because there's no budget being charged right now, no one's paying these amounts. If we solve this problem, the state can only get much more than you would lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47740	Here you go, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47741	That's right. We'll look to make the debt reprogramme possible. I'll give you one more piece of information. About, I'm talking about PIO alone now, about this billion and 300 million euros in debt, or 160 billion in dinars, the capital is about 70 billion, and 90 billion in interest, and that debt refers to a total of 227.995 insurance. So we own all the deep-dwelling analysis and we're working on a solution. I'm sure we'll be able to solve it. If we can solve this problem in the term of office of this government, it will certainly be one of the biggest, most important successes of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47742	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47743	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, since it's a sensitive subject, a subject that's been going on for 30 years, I've been thinking since 1986, when it started with a mandatory health insurance system, and then later on, pension and disability insurance, this topic has been going through so much that it's just amazing. First of all, because of the public, I have to say that this data that's been presented is so fragrant, that you have a total of a billion and 800 million that are controversial, I mean the euro. It's a PIO obligation and a health insurance obligation. And then someone there in 2008, 2009, in 2010, came up with a smart idea, so he introduced the same insurance base to have a hectare or a hundred acres and made a bigger circus here in the whole story. It was just sticking to each other's will, not to say otherwise. Now we're in a situation where we have a huge amount of commitment on one side. Meanwhile, the different ones were those who recorded pension and disability insurance obligations, from the special Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund of farmers, tax administrations and who knows who they are. When it was all packed into one system, we came into a situation where we had a huge number of people who were unable to reconcile their obligations. Let's translate that into a practical example. You have one hectare of land or 100 hectare of land, you pay the same contributions to pension and disability insurance, even though you make different incomes. You can't make the same profit on a hectare of the country as someone at 100, 200 or 500. Then what the president said about paying pensions, and those pensions are so small, they're 11,000, 11,000, 12,000, 12,000 dinars, with a system like this, we haven't gotten anywhere. We only have 9% of the charge from the contribution, the rest is out of the budget. A whole circus, one rasomonyade. What's the idea of doing, literally at the same time finding a solution to the obligations that have been accumulated, not to say for decades, and to establish a new system such that those persons who are capacity, who have the ability to pay pension and disability insurance, these salaries, who want to pay either the principal or how it is established, pay their commitments under the reprogramme and continue to go on, so that they can pretend to be a pension that will amount to a lot more than they are now, depending on the payment of contributions. I'm just gonna give you a little curiosity. In that base of farmers who are bonds of pension and disability insurance, when we did an analysis, we've been dealing with this topic for a year, because this is a very difficult topic. This is one thing that will define where we are going and how we will treat farmers in the future. Not all 350,000 owners are active. They don't all have the same capacity and they can't all pay. Some can pay all the contributions, some can share, and some can't literally do anything, because someone who owns agricultural land in Golia, who only has two cows or has half a hectare of land, can't do anything about contributions. We have to redefine that and build a system for the future, not just drag this behind us, drag tails with which no one has, as I would say, the political power to deal with. Because this thing when we're done, I think we're gonna do one big good for all our farmers. What you mentioned about mortgages, there's nothing on the basis of a contribution to the PIO that someone's established a hostage right and that went for sale. This has not happened in Serbia in the past few years as far as this government and previous leaders of Serbia. There was an attempt to abuse information, where due to unpaid VAT and later selling agricultural land due to unpaid VAT, someone tried to drag it through a small door, which is because of the PIO contribution. It's not true, it didn't happen and it won't happen until we finish this thing. What's the problem, is that people who have the capacity to pay, because of all this, this legacy, don't pay for it. We have those faces that are in their capacity, and they don't meet their obligations. I hope that with the World Bank, this project with the Ministry of Labour will end in spring and then go out in a broad public debate. This is a tough subject. Currently in Serbia, we have done literally land by land, according to all the standards that exist in the EU, what are the capacity beyond the yields made in a particular culture, beyond the area of agricultural land. There are no more than 60,000 farmers who are able to pay at full capacity their obligations. And that should be clear to everyone. There's no more of them. Now we need to see how to solve the problem with the others. It's the easiest thing to cut and say – this can, this can't and that's it. We saw what happened when it cut and said you have a hectare, you pay 88,000 contributions, so we see what happened. That's not what we're gonna do. We're gonna do a thing so our kids aren't ashamed of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47744	Please make a comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47745	Thank you. Dear President, dear Mrs. Brnabic, Mr. Nedimovic, thank you again for the answers given. I just want to finally add one more example and point out through it that the current situation is on the ground. I have a case from Mala Bosna, near Sudotica, where the lady who carried the agricultural landlady entered the reprogramme and paid a full sum of the principal who was more than 300,000 dinars. At that moment, I think in 2016, which she had at that moment, what they told her at the IRS... She settled all the debts, paid the principal. After two years, it turned out that some 12,000 dinars remained in debt, and now because of the tax administration's administrative error, the Tax Administration is asking her to pay interest. What's the problem now? The problem is that interest amounts to more than 200,000 dinars, as according to the IRS she did not pay the full amount of the principal. The principal was paid in due time. Now the system shows that he still needs to pay more, and she's already broken her deadline and has to pay interest. But in the IRS, they tell her that they can't do anything, but, for example, if half the interest is paid, then the rest will be forgiven. That's what they promise her. The lady told me that after those statements, bargaining, she felt like she was at the market. I find this inadmissible. Please, dear Mrs. Brnabic, check what the branches of the Tax Administration are doing in Serbia. In my opinion, the Tax Administration should meet with citizens who are in trouble and if that is the case and if we are all working together to solve this problem, then we will succeed. We stand at your disposal and thank you again for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47746	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47747	Thank you, President. Although I may say, it's good to see you. I didn't think I'd say it soon, and I'm glad the government responded in a really large number. I'm sorry there's no Justice Minister here, so I'll have to ask the Prime Minister a question if she wants to comment. It concerns these amendments, i.e. constitutional amendments that are important and it is a big deal and objections that the Venice Commission has repeatedly referred to these amendments, constitutional ones. It's an important and big deal. The last time the ministry announced that the Venice Commission praised and had no objections to these amendments, and now I see that the Society of Judges and the Association of Prosecutors, I just received that information, still argue that this is not the case and that it is some kind of misinformation or half of information that the Venice Commission has accepted and approved these amendments. Anyway, I wanted to leave a comment, because, I say, the profession, I don't pretend to understand what I don't understand, there are serious objections and I think that opinion of the profession should be heard. My second question, I say, this if you can comment on can, and if not, no, but another question goes to your address and concerns yesterday's visit, I would also say statements, scandalous statements, I would say, MPs of the German Bundestag, Peter Byer, who, in Belgrade, in the middle of Belgrade, said some things and conveyed clear messages from the German authorities and Angela Merkel. It was kind of a slap in the face. I may be able to interpret the anxiety of some of the authorities and the ruling coalition here, but, anyway, it's too important to keep it quiet. He said, therefore, a senior MP and representative of the ruling German party's government, on behalf of Angela Merkel, whom he was called on, that Serbia should recognise and storm, as she admitted in fact. As he said - the sovereign Republic of Kosovo. He said there is no European integration or Serbia's entry into the EU without it, he condemned and said Germany's stance that ideas about exchange of territories are bad and dangerous. He said it should be clear. He said it was Angela Merkel's attitude and that attitude would not change. He said -- that's what I want to convey as a message to Berlin, etc. To all of that, the bar that came out publicly and could be read in our media is your line, Mrs. Brnabic, where you said after meeting with Mr. Bajer, means the German Parliamentarian and in some way the envoy...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47748	Thank you. Who wants to answer the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47749	I didn't hear what I said until the end, but I believe I know what I said. So, first about constitutional amendments. I saw what you saw. I think it's really a matter that's black or white, not gray. So, we got a letter from the Venice Commission Secretariat. The Venice Commission has confirmed that it agrees with the amendments. In addition, I am truly extremely, extremely proud to run a government that has held a public debate over over a year on constitutional changes and amendments. We remember, and I will repeat it again, in 2006, when there were much more extensive amendments to the Constitution, there was no public debate, there was not even an address to the Venice Commission to ask for their opinion. This is today, therefore, with a public debate that lasts for more than a year an example of democratic society and democracy, and I am proud of it. Besides, what's been done so far, and I think I've said it several times, I'll repeat today, I think the Justice Department has done a serious and responsible job. I think they have done a very good job and have found a great way to balance between Serbia's judiciary being certainly much more independent than any political influence, than it has ever been before, and on the other hand to ensure that citizens, above all, and then the economy in Serbia has an effective and responsible judiciary. I think that if, in the end, this House accepts, and this is the most important, amendments and such changes to the judiciary's constitution, Serbia will be an example of how justice is reformed. In any case, the Government will propose to the National Assembly as soon as possible to make changes to the Constitution, and then, of course, the Assembly and the relevant committee can continue the public debate if there are any more open issues. I think that certainly what the Ministry of Justice has done, as I have said, is a great compromise between the judiciary, as one branch of government, one of the three branches of government, and still, as is happening in all civilized democratic countries, being balanced and conditioned with the other two branches of government, to reduce the full political influence and to ensure then both its efficiency and its independence. As far as the Bundestag MPs are concerned, I saw him yesterday and I want to tell you, since you said he's a senior member of the Bundestags, whether he's tall or low, it doesn't matter at all, the fact is that he's one of the members of the Bundestags and as such is not the official policy of Germany. He can have his opinion, he's free to say that. We can talk about it and talk about it all in the open yesterday. We disagree with that opinion. I presented to him yesterday at a meeting of the government of the Republic of Serbia's position, which is that when a compromise is negotiated, it is not good to have any red lines. So he is one of the MPs, just as there are MPs in our parliament and one MP is worth nothing more or no other matter than another MP. After all, Germany's attitude is not news. It's our job to talk to them and try to change that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47750	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47751	I thank you, Mrs. Brnabic, but I must say that as far as the Venice Commission is concerned, it's simply just that the information is working, it's not them, maybe the amendments are genius, they may be perfect, but simply, the Venice Commission has just noted, received knowledge of that amendment, and they have not spoken of them in terms of voting, have not approved them or not. I'm saying, maybe they're geniuses, maybe they're no good. But let's get back to what's central, unfortunately. I think, unfortunately, you didn't best interpret Mr. Byer's position, you minimized him, and I'm out of time, I haven't been able to finish the sentence, but it doesn't matter, I'm a little confused by your position, your benign attitude of the guy is that you said, we agree on everything, and there's only one problem around Kosovo we don't agree. Seems a little too minimal to me, I have to admit. As for the importance and importance and weight of Mr Byer's words, as well as some other parliamentarians, I would remind the public and all my colleagues here present to Mr Shokenkoff, also, who, several years ago, had already been the late Shokenkoff, who also came four, five, six years ago with some messages that were also the authorities and the previous ones, and also this current, your SNS, said it was only a private opinion, that it was only one MP, that it was not the official position of Germany, and especially the EU. In the end, what Mr. Shokenkoff was saying was translated into 10 points, German dots after 15 points of Brussels as a request and was eventually incorporated into Chapter 35 with requirements regarding Kosovo towards Serbia. So I would not underestimate the words of a German parliamentarian, since unfortunately it is usually as they have said. I repeat and quote to you the formulations, they're too direct, they're too sharp, so that someone should make an optional statement about it. So he said that he came with this message, that he came to convey the position of Germany that the ideas about the exchange of territories were bad and dangerous, that it was Angela Merkel's attitude, that it would not change, and that's what key, I quote, that's what I want to convey as a message to Berlin, it's explicitly byer. He didn't say it was my opinion, he said it was a message from Berlin. In that sense I say, I pray and appeal, I am sorry that there is no Foreign Minister, which there is no Mr. Dacic, to take these messages very seriously. I don't see what might happen after that and it has to be Belgrade's reaction. A few days ago, a statement by the US ambassador who rightly came across a conviction from the public, and this now seems to be silenced and hidden from Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47753	Only in one sentence. As for the Venice Commission and the Venice Commission Secretariat, of course they didn't vote again, they sent us comments and opinions on the amendments. The Justice Department has been working to adopt these comments. We adopted those comments, we showed them the final draft, they people realized it was that. So he won't vote again. I don't know why they'd vote because it's just their opinion. They can't vote. The Venice Commission cannot vote on the proposed amendments to our constitution. So that point is closed, and you can, as a respected MP, check directly with the Venice Commission Secretariat, and you can also check with the European delegation to Serbia. As far as this German MP Bundestag is concerned, I, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, don't understand at all what you and I need to talk about, and I don't understand the subject. He's a man with his own attitude. I don't underestimate that attitude. I don't overestimate it. That's his attitude, and there must be a lot more Bundestag MPs whose position it is. Also, the official German stance hasn't changed safely for the last decade, and it doesn't surprise us. We have our job, they have their job. Yeah, and first of all, President Vukic, we didn't do a good job, so let's just say the United States doesn't change that much, and he's changed pretty much. So the United States also said there were red lines, for them Kosovo was a closed issue, they wanted to talk about nothing but the Republic of Serbia recognising independence so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. So we worked, worked, and now we have the United States that say -- there are no red lines, we support dialogue, if there is any compromise solution, we are in favour. So for me, this is a major change in attitude resulting from serious work, responsible policy and that Serbia, thanks to everything that Alexander Vukic did in 2014 was recognised as a reliable, responsible, predictable partner. So, let's go back to one MP now. Is it possible that now in the Serbian Parliament, you as a respected MP and I as Prime Minister need 15 minutes to discuss the position of one, one member of the Bundestag. Okay, he's got his own attitude. Who doesn't take it seriously? We take it seriously, we do our job, sir. Well, I'm not gonna be dealing with a member of the Bundestags all day and his attitude. I've seen him. She made it clear to him what our attitude is. Also, you see, you might wonder, you might wonder, because your policy was to go to Berlin and talk one thing, go to Moscow and say another thing, go to Washington and say the third thing, go to Beijing and say the fourth thing. My job isn't that complicated. I speak the same thing in Belgrade, both in Brussels and in Washington, and in Moscow, and in Beijing, and in that MP, or that member of the Bundestags and all the other MPs. So we can keep arguing about it, but I believe there's no need. A man's got a point. We fight for our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47754	Thank you. A comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47755	I too have the same attitude in every place and with every talker, Mrs. Brnabic. Secondly, I didn't go to the capitals, I went to the former government and this power of yours. As much as America has changed its mind and opinion, we'll see about that. I want and I hope you're right, but unfortunately most of what you said or your predecessors in that place haven't turned out that way, including your media and your ministers. It was mostly misrepresented, at least when it comes to foreign-political estimates and it seemed like some kind of singing in the dark or encouraging itself through its own controlled media. We heard the German attitude. It's not just one messenger, and we'll see what happens. As for Moscow's position, today you have a statement from Mr. Pushkova, Senator and senior adviser to one of Vladimir Putin's best associates, who have also given their opinion. I'm not sure, Mrs. Brnabic, that this authority, I don't mean you personally, but those who symbolize this authority, that they really speak the same way in Washington, Moscow, Berlin, Belgrade. If it wasn't for some different messages and signals, maybe that nervousness in the ranks of the government. There are promises coming in, I'm afraid. There are some deadlines coming up, and I don't see why it would otherwise be in such a hurry with this internal dialogue that actually doesn't exist and with this agreement that's also being hinted at, and in fact there's nothing from it, as well as from the real negotiations. So I wish you were right. I'm afraid you haven't, but don't underestimate the opinion of one, the cobayage of a German parliamentarian, because until now it's usually been the usual and official opinion of both Germany and the entire EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47756	The next is Ambassador George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47757	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Madam Prime Minister with my associates, I have the following questions and the first question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic – what results are expected from the sale of stakes in RTB Bor, and what effect should this have on Bor himself, his environment and the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia? Since there is no justice minister here, then I will have to refer the following question to you as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, since from your domains is this part, which is – as long as it has arrived with future legal changes that should provide for the full material equality of judges for violations with all other judges in the Republic of Serbia, since judges for violations have been appointed as judges, so they have received this rank and status, but their salaries and earnings are not equal with other judges? That's why I think it's also a question for the Prime Minister, but also for the finance minister. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, since two billion dinars have been allocated this year to foster agriculture, and that my lay estimate is that at least five billion dinars are needed at this time to ensure payment to all those interested in the purchase of new machinery, is this new space requested in the budget and will it be provided, because I think it can bring a lot of good agriculture? Health Minister's question – how long has it been with the reconstruction of clinical centres? We know that the Nis Clinical Centre is open, I'm interested in what stage of reconstruction is the hospitals in Vranj, Prokuplje, Leskovac, health homes and other towns of Serbia, where investment in health infrastructure is necessary? The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture is concerned with the public funding management programme from 2016 to 2020, which provides for the abolition of the right to dispose of the cultural institutions' own incomes, I am interested in how far it has come with the implementation of this measure, and what are the results and what impact have on the stable and continuous work of these institutions? And, Minister of the Interior, I wonder if there is at least some preliminary intersection and a review of the results of the new traffic safety law after these five, six months of application?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47758	Thank you. The word has the Prime Minister, Minister Nedimovic and Minister Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47759	Thank you. First, I want to go back, said here by the MP one quite serious thing that could cause Serbia to have a problem, so just to say that it is not true and it is important to say that it is not true. It has been said that it is said that the MP from Bundestag, a parliamentarian from Budenstag, is that his position is shared by Germany, which is true, but that his position is shared by the EU, please the EU, you understand that there are five member states in the EU that have not recognised Kosovo – Spain, Slovakia, Greece, Cyprus and Romania. When you say that his position is shared by the EU, then you completely ignore these important, significant partners of ours. Its bet is not shared by the EU. Its bet is not shared by the European Commission either. Its position is not shared by the European Commission either, because the European Commission is practically the government of the EU member countries, so it must also be the opinion of those EU members. So don't, please, first disabling the citizens of Serbia, by dividing the EU, and secondly by imposing such solutions on countries that have not recognised independence so-called "independence". the Republic of Kosovo. When you say to stop hypocrisy today, that I, my predecessor, this government, this previous government, is changing the attitude, that I'm not talking at all about that you've never changed your attitude, you've just changed your nationality to lower your censorship to enter parliament. Now let me get back to the questions. The first thing we expect from privatisation, that is, finding a strategic partner for Bor? First of all, what's best news and what we expect is that all 5,000 jobs will be detained. This is extremely important for all eastern Serbia, not just for Bor and Majdanpek. In addition, of course, the first big thing, after that, is $200m to pay back all debts for UPPR and then total investment of billions and $260m in the first six years of which as much as $780m in the first three years, which is all important for eastern Serbia, for all citizens of eastern Serbia, but also for all citizens of Serbia, because RTB Bora directly depends on 5,000 people and families, but indirectly over 20,000 people. I also expect, although we have no guarantee that thanks to all these investments, we will further employ people within RTB Bor. As for the equality of judges for violations and wages, I'll consult with the Justice Minister, and I'll get back to you on that. Now I'd leave it to the other ministers to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47760	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47761	Dear Mr Komlenski, I am very grateful for this question for one simple reason, that for the sake of the public we can present the facts of how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been devoting for these measures of support to Serbian farmers, concerning the purchase of new machinery, the purchase of tractors, the construction of storage spaces, the construction of processing facilities, because it is the thing that makes the Serbian farmer competitive. It makes it more quality to be able on this market, which is harsh, above all, in terms of the environment, because don't forget that almost everything, or most of the countries around us, are either EU members and have some benefits, common European agricultural policy in terms of the money that we can think about at this point. One part is available through IPARD funds, and another part, I hope that through the process of European integration, we will come to them. In particular, as regards machinery, the previous year, for the first time in years, we had a measure of purchasing tractors for agricultural producers dealing with vegetables, fruit growing and winemaking. Although at first they said it was going to be one measure that would concern 100, 150 farmers, you remember those rows in the government office, where they were racing, not to say they were racing on Horgos, at the post office, I don't just know where those stories came from, but that's how it usually works, these evil languages try to devastate every good thing. We're just because there was a huge interest in 2,400 requirements that were for tractors, about 1,900 paid off. These others did not have complete documentation and simply did not have such a seed structure that would meet the requirements that were in the competition. What did these people get to know the public? Fifty percent of the value of a tractor or a maximum of a million and 800,000 dinars, and if it's a devasted area, or an area with difficult working conditions, it was as much as 65% vomiting. Come on, tell me when it was? I don't remember. Some may remember, but maybe on three tractors, not definitely on this number. On the other hand, as for the machinery, we had an incredibly large number of demands last year, 13,500 demands were purchases of machinery and everything that was covered by that regulation that concerned the machinery. About 11,000 items have been processed and these people have been put at their disposal to obtain and do so on the basis of the invoice. So, it's been put at their disposal that they have a time period, that they can get it in advance, and the state guarantees that money will be paid. I still don't remember one thing like that in the last 10, 15 years, and thank God in this business I'm one 15, 16 years sure. The third thing that is very important to say is that this year's requests have started to be processed and they will be at the expense of next week and beyond, in relation to the purchase of all the machinery. Under this, I also mean the acquisition of all that is necessary for wartime agricultural production, what is necessary for fruit growing, primarily the purchase of anti-building networks, the purchase of well construction, the irrigation system. So everything that makes a Serbian farmer competitive, which lowers his costs, increases the quantity, and thus the quality, because everything in agriculture today is reduced to that. It comes down to the availability of water, so that you can have as high quality agricultural production as possible, as well as quantity. For example, where we don't have irrigation systems, in some of the central forest areas, we're offering a hectare of apples of 15-20 tons. On modern plantations, which have irrigation systems 50, 60, 70, not to say that it goes up to 100 tons per hectare. Do you know how much higher that is, more profit for every farmer when the state helps him like this? And how does it help him specifically? If something costs six or seven million dinars, the state pays you back half, three, three and a half million dinars. To get back to one more thing, I've heard the story of transparency for IPARD, that IPARD won't be there. Only those who have spoken in this House that the IPARD will not be, have one opposite thing happened to them. As early as last December, we called for the first calls, about the mechanization, which is why I'm making it up to this whole story, we've put out calls for both the machinery and the supply of tractors, and for now, yesterday we've called, yesterday or the day before, we've issued an invitation to build objects, so for the purchase of physical property to agricultural ones. That's all you talked about for seven, eight years just wasn't done. All those who were full of the mouth of Europe failed to finish the job failed to finish the job. Today, all 175m euros from IPARD funds are available, including 50m euros from the Serbian budget. The first calls were, the first solutions are shared, I hope that by next month we will have about 200-250 solutions to share with Serbian farmers. When we shared solutions the other day, those solutions were in the range of 10,000 euros in return, for the purchase of a trailer, up to 600,000 euros, a Serbian farmer, who lives in Kladovo, got the right to return to the fruit sector, which I didn't hear something about 10 years ago, or I wasn't well informed about it, and I was living, working in the agricultural area, I'm sure someone would have informed me about it. Now, what's going on? No longer, we had a total of, for these first three calls, 502 requests from Serbian farmers. It has been said that Serbian farmers do not know how to apply, and how they know. For tractors, for example, we have twice as many requirements as there were available funds in the first competition, that's good. We do, now we have some curiosities. Here, for example, the combustion yesterday, the space of western Serbia, I'm not going to deliberately say where it happened, we had a registered seed structure, where the potato was concerned, the man wanted to buy a tractor, when we went into field control, "GPS" technology, checked the plots, did everything, didn't meet the man's terms, because the potatoes were there 20 years ago the last time. I mean, those things happen, too. I'm talking about things that happen all the time, it's all normal and it's going to happen, but control, that's why I wanted to say this, is maximum and has to be taken care of as much as possible. We will have a much larger amount of funds from IPARD funds available to us next year, around 50-60m euros. When it all comes to the Serbian budget, thank God, we now have a finance minister who understands agriculture, who understands that it is necessary to help the Serbian farmer even more, because the number of demands is increasing and only money can be helped. Here, my colleague Risticevic shows me, to raise the figure we're looking for for next year, in the sense that I have a lot of demands. A colleague knows what the number of demands is, because it is important that we meet everything that Serbian farmers expect from us. We have a good understanding of the Ministry of Finance and I hope that when, at the end of November or December, we come out with the 2019 budget, we will be able to say that the subsidy system has been raised so much that the Ministry of Agriculture has a qualitatively one of the largest amounts of growth it will have in the following year compared to the budget of the previous year. Now, if I said something about this, and the finance minister disagrees with this, I hope it won't be a consequence for the Serbian farmers, maybe for me. It is very important, to conclude, that Serbian agriculture in terms of machinery, the more we equip, the more we help to lower costs and that the margin, which remains for the Serbian farmer, is growing. Modern equipment, modern technology, you lower costs. We can't influence prices, there's a large number of agricultural products on the world market, there's a game of large numbers. But with the participation in this part, we can lower costs and keep the greater profits to the Serbian farmer. It was very important and took great care of it. Only for the purchase of machinery was about six billion and all of these things this year, and seven-eight years ago there were 300-400 million. I think it's 20 times as much as I went to school. I went to school a long time ago, and I still know simple math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47762	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47763	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I think this is a great opportunity for both the citizens of Serbia and all of you to submit a report on both the clinical centres and the rest of what is done. The Nis clinical center is over, you know that. However, what I want to inform you, with the completion of the Nis Clinical Center, we have not stopped investing in Nis. I have to inform you that in the next month, the month and a half will be completed in Nis all those buildings where the patients were housed and moved to a new clinic building. There is a complete adaptation of these rooms, and this will be one serious polyclinic, or place where checks and controls will be carried out, which have not been at an adequate level in Nis so far. It's a serious project that will be completed within the next month. Access traffic stops. It's a parking lot that's never been within the Nis Clinical Center. It's about lighting, the most modern helipad. So, just part of where we show that when we finished the Nis Clinical Center, that we didn't stop investing, that it moved on, that at the same rate, at the same intensity it invested in Nis. About Belgrade. In Belgrade, contractors entered the space where the works were performed. The work has started, it's done by the dynamics it's intended to do. I had a meeting with the directors of the European Bank yesterday. The agreement with them is that people who, the most experienced in Europe and the world, with the licences they have, come in to control the process of work and everything that's going on around the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, not by chance come into the situation we've been in since 2006 when all this was supposed to be done, when it was all over. That's another extra guarantee. They now, seeing one seriousness, see how it is, want to discuss other enlargements related to the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, because they see that Belgrade is growing, that needs are growing, that we can discuss both additional funds and additional construction related to the Clinical Centre of Serbia. As far as the Vojvodina Clinical Center is concerned, we have completed the documentation. In the final phase, their verification of these documents and, most recently, in their words, as of yesterday, a tender for Vojvodina will come out. When a tender for Vojvodina comes out, it moves on to Kragujevac and comes out for Kragujevac and it's Kragujevac. This is the dynamics that are currently expected to be related to clinical centres. What I still want to inform you. You asked me about the crow. The Vranj hospital, or surgical block in Vranj, as things stand now, should open a new, newly built surgical block with the most modern equipment in Vranj at the end of November. It has to be open by the end of November. The next week, cyber, i.e. edge knife, will be opened in front of a gamma knife in the Clinical Centre of Serbia, where for all of our health insurance providers Serbia will have free, i.e. for those who have a single booklet, and gamma night and edge knife, which is something more modern than cyber knives and the most modern scanner that has to follow that device, something that cannot be praised by much richer and much more developed countries than we are. The archangel for the first time has a scanner and built a new reception block that's ready to open. In the King as well as a new scanner, I think we'll be going through two-thirds of the hospitals that have been restored, which have been done. By the end of the year, it is expected to open a maternity home in Lazarevec, a set of new buildings with new equipment to be completed. At the end is the reconstruction of most of the hospital in Kruševec, so it is only part of what is done. I don't list parts here that include painting, replacing carpentry, sanitary knots, toilets and everything that's necessary to do and what's done and what hasn't been done in the previous period. It's just part of what's happening in health care right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47764	Thank you. Minister Antic, have you called? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47765	According to the agreement with the Prime Minister, and given the issue of Mr Komlenski's esteemed MP, regarding the strategic partners and the effects we expect in RTB Bor, that, just as the Prime Minister has said, we have very high expectations as the Republic of Serbia regarding the whole RTB project and the strategic partnership. I would like to make it clear to the public that there is a very difficult period behind RTB. During this difficult period, RTB, unfortunately, could not develop, could not invest, neither in modernisation, nor in mining. Since 1990, unfortunately, neither the period nor after 2000 has done any good for this great economic giant, on which life depends not only in Bor and Majdanpek, but in all eastern Serbia and indeed has a capital impact on our overall economy. The reminders were, in the period from 2006 to 2009, four attempts to privatise RTB, twice by selling, twice through a strategic partnership, all four attempts were unsuccessful, considering that RTB had a bad job and had an extremely outdated technology and a bad environmental impact. For this very reason, this and the previous government have put the accent first and foremost to repair the situation in RTB and its preparation to make it attractive as such to select future partners who were expected to invest seriously. In that sense, since 2012, 2013 and 2014, we have primarily completed a factory, i.e. a de-suppression plant, i.e. a sulphuric acid factory and a new solvent, thus solving decades of environmental problems, we have invested in fleeting, new trucks, repairing the efficiency of RTB work, and RTB has begun to show signs of life. By regulating their historical debts through UPPR, we have created an overall environment around RTB, to make it interesting for serious mining companies and only then have we joined the process of selecting a strategic partner. We've been taking this process very seriously, very thoroughly. I must say, I deeply believe that one of the best, most significant objectives has been achieved to ensure one transparency of an internationally recognised procedure related to the choice of a strategic partner. Reminders for the sake of this, we have published a public call for the selection of a strategic partner in the Financial Times and we have had a really decent interest in serious mining companies for RTB. In the end, the winner of the process is the Chinese company Zidjin Mayning, which is one of the mining giants that is in big expansion, which is now operating in ten countries around the world and which is one of the largest Chinese, hence world, producers and copper and zinc and precious metals. Zijdin, through an offer he made, which was also the best in financial terms, but also in terms of the business plan, is committed to those things that are important to us, which is the development of RTB and shows that it shares the vision of the Serbian government when RTB is concerned, primarily from the point of view of the investment component and the results that will result in all this being achieved. Zijdin has committed itself, as the president said, to investments of $1 billion and $260m and these investments will primarily ensure the opening of new mines, I think of Cerovo, and significant improvements on existing mines Kriljelj, Majdanpek, Borska Cave, as well as modernising and increasing the efficiency of all production processes within RTB, from fleet to processing. They have pledged to improve the smelter and raise its capacities to a double level compared to the existing one. Through a business plan, they made a commitment to provide all the conditions and production of 80,000 tonnes of copper from their own ore over a three-year period. The comparisons work, today RTB produces 42 to 43 thousand tonnes, and after six years, 120 to 150 thousand tonnes. It's three to four times more than it's produced in RTB today. We expect that all that Zijdin will do with the Serbian government will also have a capital impact on life in eastern Serbia, but also on the overall economy. If achieved, and I deeply believe that there are all the preconditions to achieve this, that Zijdin integrates the large Timok project, i.e. the Chukaru Peki mine, and raises the total production to 200 to 250 thousand tonnes of copper annually. The projections say only copper production will participate in our GDP with about 5% after the sixth year. This is an extremely strong result and indeed a dynamic indicator that Serbia's economy will seriously develop in the mining sector. Today, mining participates with about 1%, if only copper goes to 5%, and we know how many other projects we have, including lithium and what Rio Tinto is doing in Western Serbia, I can really do with a lot of optimism and a lot of convictions in front of this high home to argue that mining will be one of the most serious shockers of our overall industry and our future economic development, if we consider that mining as an industrial and economic branch is one of the most employed people around its activity, then it will really be extremely quality to reflect on many other industrial branches and we will work very closely on it. I would like to thank the entire government who has given great support to this process of selecting a strategic partner, of course, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic, who has indeed given full support to the fact that in this process we have a great interest in serious foreign companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47766	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. ) Read the Rules of Procedure. Milorad Mircic: I've read it. I read the same thing five, six years ago. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47767	Thank you very much. Since MPs are asking you a question about the effects of the new law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Transport Safety Act, I want to tell you that the results really indicate that we can be relatively satisfied with the application. In fact, some 29,000 car accidents have occurred since the beginning of the year, so from January 1st to October 24th, we have about 8% less car accidents. In the period since the law began to apply from 3 April to 24 October, a little less than 13% of the people died compared to the previous year, which is really significant results. On this occasion, I also want to thank the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have realized how serious and important it is to act responsibly in traffic and how important it is that every day we highlight those measures that are important to be applied over and over again, which is that it is always driven in accordance with the speed limit, that you always drive without the fact of alcohol and that the safety belt is tied. This is twice as significant, therefore, not only for the lives of passengers in that vehicle, but for all other traffic users. And also, I think it's very important to point out that all state authorities have to work together on this, this isn't a job of any individual, this is a job where everyone has to contribute, with a certain responsibility. We have good co-operation with the Ministry of Traffic that we are working with to increase road infrastructure, which is one of the important segments in traffic security. Also, of course, preventive measures. I have to say, I also want to thank the police officers who work in schools. Over 2,000 people participate together with police pensioners working on our children's education. In the first, fourth and sixth classes where we work with our youngest categories, with children of the youngest age of school and shows them among others and one of the topics and what are the challenges facing traffic, what is it that we can do, how to protect them and how to stay unharmed. It's very important that parents get involved. None of us can expect any state institution to be the only one involved in the process of raising children. I often point out that as a parent. It is important that parents are instructed to make sure that their children are fully prepared to participate, whether on foot or in a motor vehicle, so that they are involved in traffic. So we have that preventive part. The police are working, of course, very hard and repressive measures and we have had the situation for years, for two or three years, we have a perfectly clear, clean situation that, of course, thanks to the driver's responsibility and thanks to, let me say, sharp controls, that we don't have the victims near schools, which is very good, because you know, and you're witnesses when you start in the morning how many little people go to those minutes just before school starts, how many are present on the streets, how many parents are rushing and to work, how big that crowd is. A very high concentration and attention every day must be devoted to it. We also have a large number of school police officers around the school that we have maximum safety for children in traffic. I must say, once again I appeal to all citizens to continue to show one high degree of responsibility. Are we satisfied? Of course, we're not happy when one man dies, let alone when more car accidents occur with a large number of victims. It is better than the previous year and every, we can really say that everyone is getting better. But that, of course, doesn't mean we can be satisfied while there's one man who dies in a car accident. Our job is and I want to thank the MPs at the end of the National Assembly, to point out, first and foremost, that the law is passed, but that the role of every man who sits behind the wheel and how important it is that this man realizes that security is not only the safety of his life in his hands at that time, but the safety of many other people. You've seen, unfortunately, some of the car accidents that have happened recently and that have happened in the past, that young people are sitting behind the wheel, underestimating that they're tired, underestimating that they've drunk a certain amount of alcohol and the worst of all, what's easiest to tie their seat belts. They forget to do it, they don't want to do it, and then we have big problems. People don't need to drive slower or tie their seat belts so they don't pay the fine, they have to do it to save other people's lives and lives. I wish we could never charge for any punishment in Serbia, that everyone is driving responsibly and that no man gets hurt and that's how demographics don't work on us. It would be better if we didn't influence that further with our irresponsibility and that's why I say they are encouraging results, but we have to do even more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47768	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: By the Rules of Procedure.) ) Article 216. read. (Milorad Mircic: Article 242.) No, you read 216. The word is Komlenski. It really doesn't make sense. It really doesn't make sense, you're letting MPs not ask questions. Ambassador Komlensky, you want to ask a question. Milorad Mircic: This really doesn't make sense. He can't force anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47769	I thank the chairman. With all due respect to colleagues from the SRS, I will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to tell us, in view of the import of cheap fish, river fish from abroad, what the Ministry plans to protect domestic producers and whether something seems or plans to restore the fish fund in the rivers and lakes of the Republic of Serbia and what incentives can be expected in this area. The Ministry of Finance, and I didn't get a reply from the minister about the funds related to culture and the use of my own funds for culture, so I would ask him to answer that. Given that I will not have the opportunity to question myself, I will only ask if, in addition to these effects, some kind of obligation to increase the budget inflow by local self-government towards the institutions of culture so that they can carry out their work uninterruptedly. The fact is that some local self-governments, the type of Zrenjanin and other cities have done so from their own budgets and cultural institutions there do not bother, but it is a fact that some other local self-governments have not done so. I think it should have appropriate legal or sublegal acts to regulate it. In addition, I have to ask you if the Ministry of Finance is considering how else it will arrange an estimate of the value of the assets as the basis for the collection of the property tax, not only because of this segment, but because it is one of the essential elements for the calculation of the future lease from January 1st to pay so-called. Protected tenants, so I'll jargonically use that professional name.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47770	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47771	Two minutes you just let me and this is my second round.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47772	I'm sorry, I wasn't talking to you. I was talking to the MPs who were yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47773	Excuse me, I understand you've distracted me in time. I'm just gonna finish this question all the way. So, when it comes to protected tenants, will that correction be prepared because we are witnessing that there are unrealistic estimates in certain parts of Serbia that are not close to market or are smaller or larger. It is not good for the tax on property either, and obviously it would not give a fair result when it comes to a lease that will be required under this methodology to pay tenants so-called. or protected tenants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47774	Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47775	I thank the president. Dear MPs, it's very interesting that someone remembered the stories of fishing and the ponds, not just for fishing how often people understand it, but for one serious economic branch. I know it's irrelevant to you, sir, on my left, and I know that fishing means absolutely nothing to you, but fishing as an economic branch is so important to Serbia, now I'm going to give you a few reasons. I hope I don't just take too much time, so someone tells me, I mean, because of those people who come before us in time, and this is the time of glory, in Serbia are respected. Many in the day of glory fasts and it is very important that we have sufficient quantities of quality fish in those days. Serbia spends, just for your information, one small hour, 35,000 tons of fish. Of course, I answer every question. I've been here all day, listening to everyone, answering whatever I could, whoever asked me a question, and who didn't ask, I couldn't even answer, but that's why it has to be here. Serbia produces about 10,000 tonnes of fish somewhere, and we need it because of the development of this type of agricultural activity, whatever you want to call it, it is necessary to introduce new fishing incentives measures, not only in the classical sense of how people experience it on lakes, rivers fish, but in farm farms. Today it seems quite simple. I'll take the chance, I'll explain it in plastic. Today there are fish farms, such as where you can do it in those areas where it's impossible to run another agricultural production. It's like simple and plastic ponds, big tubs, call them whatever pools you want, which have a change of water, where it's constantly flowing, insertion of fresh water and purification of that water, it's about eating, as it is about farms. One of the chapters regarding EU negotiations is fishing. That's Chapter 13. We opened that chapter. It is one of the three chapters concerning the agricultural sector, and now we will thank God for another chapter to open, and that is Chapter 11 concerning agricultural policy. A very important question, I need the support of all MPs, the Committee on Agriculture, to get this topic out first, how those people who do not have enough resources to deal with, to raise an orchard of 30,000 euros, which can raise small farms, in small areas to deal with fish farming. The fish has great demand, not only in Serbia, but everywhere in Europe and the world. As far as demand is concerned, the information itself works, there is a great demand on the world market and there will be 10, 20 years after beef, lamb meat and fish. It is quite natural, because the populations who, in their tradition, have their own kitchen habits for the consumption of this kind of meat, there the population is growing and it is very important for us to be competitive and that is why we will already be in the 2019 measure, even though we have it now, but this has given us the opportunity, the opening of this Chapter 13 to develop new measures and tools so that we can encourage Serbian fishing. Thank you, Mr. Komlensky, for remembering this subject that few people talk about. Most of the time, people talk about it when they're having fun, fishing, when they're eating something, and maybe if they fake something. Now, speaking of this poacher, several weeks ago, there was a big action done by the Regional Ministry of Agriculture, along with the Ministry of Agriculture, where a large number of people who have been poaching fish were taken away from them by means of labour, not to say work, smuggling, kidnapping, and we will stand in the way as we have with other authorities of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Ministry of Tax Administration, and those who have tried to abuse the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation because they are experts in fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47776	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47777	Mrs. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize, I just thought the Minister of Culture would explain to you about the institutions of culture. The law exempts them from taking their own incomes and, in any case, for other institutions, the same applies, as long as the financing process is not rounded up, it will not happen, so on the issue of us in the ministry, however the Ministry of Culture solves, so we will work in the future. The much more important question is about the value assessment of the assets you've put in place, given that there's a large number and a dilemma there and I'd say, the shortcomings that have been seen from practice over the last few years. Together with the Budget and Budgetary System Act, by the end of the year, at the end of November, we will come up with a proposal for a new law on public property, with a proposal for a new income law, income tax on citizens, corporate tax and property tax. So we're going to try to solve all these shortcomings that exist in the current legal solutions, just given what you've highlighted. In the last few months, we've been gathering all those opinions and suggestions on what should be changed. I think this package of laws is very important for further reforms in our country. Of course, these laws will have, tax laws, on them, I mean, have a special part that is related to the incentive, to the development of IT industry, and everything we've been talking about for a few months now, along with a new law on the budgetary system, which will never again have capital investments, along with public property laws that will also be more flexible in terms of the activation of this public property for bringing investors, putting into circulation of certain properties, and will also contribute to the continued growth of our economy, and that is exactly what we want to do with these laws that many are suvoparous, but in the next few weeks before you will come up with a proposal of these laws, just given the shortcomings and suggestions that exist from the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47778	The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47779	Dear People's MP, there's probably some inaccuracies in your question, termologically, because it's certainly not a ban on using its own resources, because that would be both pointless and childish and wrong. It's just a different way of controlling the spending of their own resources, because in 2018, cultural institutions do it directly through the Treasury, i.e. they refer the requirements to us, the Ministry of Finance, in agreement with us, approves the use of their own funds. So it's a principle that advocates the introduction of a higher degree of discipline and supervision of the use of own resources and a higher degree of order compared to the previous period, because it's been found that there have been cases where the spending of own resources in cultural institutions has been to some extent, in certain cases and beyond reasonable control, so it's just that, first of all, culture institutions, to point out, are very stimulated and very encouraged, because they are achieving the highest degree of realisation of their own resources. It is a matter of reasonable cultural policy and at all one permanent environment in the area. In any case, this is not a ban, cultural institutions have the right to spend resources, their own resources, but with slightly greater involvement of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, in overseeing the use of these funds, but in the way that the institutions of culture affirm it. So I'm going to repeat and stress, it's only about a higher level of order in that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47780	Thank you. You have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47781	I thank the chairman. I thank you for the very exhaustive and very specific answers because I think we have just removed some dilemmas and misunderstandings that have been raised as questions, and the question has been purposely come up with this in order to get the right answer from the right place, not to convince me what is the essence of the legal provisions. What's important, and I want to comment, to see clearly one commitment to the absolute attitude, that everything has to be subordinated to domestic agricultural producers, whether it's agriculture, fruit growing, livestock farming and all the branches of it. So food is the same as oil, only domestic, stable, healthy food production can provide one absolute security and stability of Serbia's functioning as a state. Let's respect our history, the peasant was always that and that food from the village that came to the cities, many times preserved Serbia and allowed it not to depend on others. Therefore, no matter how much it costs, it must be provided. As far as the judges are concerned, I believe that Minister Nela Kuburovic shares an opinion with me, and I truly believe that it is a small step in the budget or a small hole in the budget or a small budget cost, that some 573 are paid, how many employees are currently employed by judges for violations or 606 or how many are systematised, equal to their colleagues, and I honestly believe that this is a much greater contribution to the independence of the Serbian judiciary, completion, simple, stability in the functioning of the judicial system, than any constitutional amendments which, without reason, will be tried by the parliament of Serbia to confiscate jurisdiction for the first choice of judges, deputy prosecutors, the president of the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor, but more specifically when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47782	Thank you. The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47783	Madam President, honourable members of the government headed by the prime minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, on behalf of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, ask a few questions to which I expect an answer. One of the first questions for tonight is the payment of compensation to persons, or women, who are on maternity and maternity leave. Namely, it is a special pleasure that the Government and President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, recognized the problem which is decades in Serbia, which is that in Serbia a few decades ago, I would not say years ago, giving birth to fewer children than it is dying, so that Serbia is getting smaller and smaller every day, from month to month, year to year. A few months ago, we passed laws that went after it to speed up the birth of children in Serbia, to reward all mothers who chose to give birth to one, two, three or more children and to reward themselves, so to speak, special fees from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and plus what belongs to them if they are in a working relationship based on receiving from a working relationship. However, in practice, I have to say, things have started to happen a little bit strange, so I expect the government to take some, I would say, energetic measures to prevent this delay in the payments to women who are on pregnancy and maternity leave. At this point, these delays are two, three and four months. Here, I have an example from the morning where I was approached by a lady from Belgrade who had given birth on June 25th without getting her first maternity leave until today. I don't think there's a problem in the government, it's not a problem in the law, it's not a problem in regulations and in the guidelines for the application of these laws, I'd say that the basic problem in the officials who work and process the subject according to local self-governments in the system is put the item in the drawer, so one day it's going to be a turn. That's why I think the ministry in charge of these affairs has to react urgently and things don't happen because they're not all pregnant and they're not all foster parents in such a material state that they can last a few months without receiving. I think that, at least we in Unity Serbia think that it was much more practical to pay off the previous payment regardless, I know, and we know what the Ministry and the Government were doing to reach out for amendments to these laws, because there were individual abuses in increasing wages before birth or hiring unemployed pregnant women to exercise the right to budgetary incomes. So, to make it... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47784	Thank you. Your time has passed. Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47785	I thank you for this question, because once again it is an opportunity to realize that giving to stimulate population policy has never been greater in this country than it is now. You just voted the Financial Support Act of the family and I won't mention it, because you know what the figures are, but the fact that by the age of 10 for each second and third, or the fourth child born, are increased amounts when it comes to the third and fourth born children, 12 and 18 thousand, gives in fact one safety and the possibility that the child's standard by the age of 10 will be provided in accordance with all the standards of good practices of the countries that do so in the environment, with the fact that, compared to the financial potential, we have actually made one priority that is valuable and welcoming, but never enough resources to stimulate this segment of life for our families and our citizens and mothers, or the standards of children. But what is true is that there have been some misunderstandings in the implementation of the law itself, and I must say that the law came into force on July 1st. Therefore, all the solutions given to pregnant women, families before that, must absolutely be respected. The law has just made a change to this segment that you were talking about. And what the government has done precisely because of some uncertainty and tendency to make this a law that is likely to change and supplement most often, a committee has been formed with representatives of certain and ministries and secretariats, and statistics and for child protection, which monitors the application of the law on a daily basis. So, all the financial contributions are just going to the mother, the pregnant, the nurse from July 1st. Anything that has been delayed for administrative and other reasons has been corrected. Anything that hasn't been paid in a month or two to three months' time will be paid by the end of the year, and as soon as the funding allows for it to be paid to every woman, and whether there will be some changes and sublegal acts that will specifically provide answers to the specific questions that you have asked today and who are asking and well-intentioned, but, unfortunately, often those who have an evil intention and simply won't see how many segments of population policy have just begun to live and how far away they are from social policy. You know, social giving is a tendency to improve the material status of family and child. Population policy sees no differences in social status, no mother, no child, no family. It actually acts in the same way as stimulating everything. These measures we've taken simply apply absolutely to everyone. What you are likely to do is, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of this calendar year or at the beginning of the next, you will have the opportunity to discuss the additions and amendments of the Financial Support Act to the family, but these additions and changes cannot be the product of arbitrary desires. They must be based on a good balance between the government's tendency to have a natal policy, a policy that is a real priority for the state, but also for the financial opportunities that we have. In that sense, were there any measures that had been better before? There may have been, but there has never been a larger coverage of citizens who are covered by financial support, of course it is. There are often examples that a woman may get two and a half thousand dinars only every month when she goes to pregnancy. That woman would, for example, get three thousand dinars under the earlier law, but as soon as she has a child, she gets not 39,000, but 100,000 single aid if it's the first child. So when we talk about the total amount of money that is directed at every pregnant woman, every mother, every child, it's really bigger sums of money. In that sense, I understand your suggestion and your question, but I would ask that perhaps in the local environments we provide explanations that should separate social policy from the population, which should separate labour relations rights from the innovative incentives that the Financial Support Act dominated us and you here when you passed this law and in the perspective of being aware that we will have to in line with the repair of the state's material status relatively often change this law. Demographic indicators are very slow to change and we will have to separate more and more stimulating funds and incentives, not only financially, but also others in terms of harmonising labour and parenting, with regard to reducing the psychological cost of parenting, raising knowledge of reproductive health that is at a rather low level and including local self-government units in all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47786	Thank you. The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47787	Madam Minister without portfolio, this wasn't a criticism to the government and to you, this was just a finding. The city I come from has no problem, because for years before and before these laws, we've been paying maternity and pregnant benefits, so we have a stalker system for that payment, and there's no delay in Jagodina. I speak wider and there are many such cases in Serbia, and the government must urgently take certain steps to exercise control, but well, from there to there. The second question concerns the Minister of Energy, Mr Antic. Since the heating season has begun, and there is information that many accumulation lakes are empty and half empty, so I'm interested, and JS is interested in whether there will be problems in the next winter period with electricity supply, or by supplying gas for heating? We know that in Serbia, a lot of heat has gone from mules and coal to gas, so, due to environmental pollution, etc., so that viewers who are following this transmission, in general all Serbian citizens would be in a position to hear firsthand whether there would be problems or not with heating, i.e. electricity supply. On the other hand, I would ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, if he listens to me, to try to answer the question whether the Government has a plan to improve the protection of agricultural crops from natural disasters, or the city? We know there have been a lot of problems in many of Serbia's environments this year. Don't, please, just tell me you need to secure crops, etc. They know our agricultural producers need to be insured, but usually they get a maximum of 30% of what's being destroyed from insurance agencies. So I think we need to find ways to protect farmers, because they don't all have the ability to get protection nets, they don't have the opportunity or the money to all be secured, etc. That's what I'm saying especially because of those little landowners that have five, six, seven, eight acres of land, and when they're hit by that elemental disaster, then they're left with no crops, run out of basic income for life. On the other hand, the ministry needs to take some steps to make local self-government faster to transform funds to pay off those people who fire rockets on city clouds, because these local self-governments are not able, they don't have the financial means to adequately reward these people and then it comes to people simply not being volunteers, they don't do the job without getting an adequate reward. So if we want well to the agricultural producer, especially the tiny one, let's give him basic conditions so that we can protect him from what is said to be falling from the sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47788	Minister Nedimovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47789	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, it's obvious this is agriculture day. A few days ago, more precisely last week, on Thursday, we concluded a contract on the purchase of an automatic anti-building system for the Valjevo Radar Centre. What exactly is this about? Our city protection system is archaic. It's about positions, the infrastructure that was built in the 1960s and 1970s, that was networked with a complete and similar infrastructure in the environment. Oh, the clouds, especially the mayor, don't know the boundaries. He doesn't know when he gets to Drina, that he can't cross or whether he can cross right there. There's actually the biggest problem. I'm saying this symbolically, at Drina's. Our existing system works the following way, it worked. We had in every village one, two, three anti-urban stations, and when from RHMZ through radio connection, as it worked 50 years ago, these people have to go to the end of the village, because it's usually at the end of the village, to go to that place, to shake the coordinates, whether or not the radio link was well taken over. It's all a lot of strangers in the whole system. So we together with RHMZ did a special study that was supposed to tell us first what system to go to, whether the system of automatic anti-building protection, where we have automatic rocket launchers, no human crews, based on the most modern technological achievements, or whether it's going, which was a story 10, 15 years ago, to go on the procurement of cloud dusting airplanes and everything else. The study, however, said it should go to automatic anti-urban protection. Why did we decide to go to Valjevo first? I know a lot of people don't care about this, because they don't even know what anti-urban stations look like, or the launchers, and their mouths are full of stories about defending farmers. They probably didn't even see what it looked like. That's what's at the end of the village, mostly one white house, has the most common green door. Whoever did this knows, and whoever didn't, will never know, because we're going to push it slowly towards oblivion. The rockets that were used in the 1960s were only three kilometers in the '70s, so one system that was probably probably the best and best that could be implemented at the time. Today there are rockets that have a range of up to eight kilometers, so a significantly smaller number of radar stations is needed, as more space can be stored. What does such a single station look like to be implemented in the Valjevo radar centre? Next way. It will be physically placed again in some catastrian municipality on a plot, it will be automatically listed from the radar centre. We have 13 such radar centers. Literally through software will be a paired cloud along with a rocket. So, how does that work? In modern systems, we'll have system and control, we'll know exactly where the rocket went, what effect it has achieved. Now we don't know who fired, or how much, except when we go to look at the situation as it was, and when we see if anything has been extradited in a village or not. Why Valjevo? Valjevo is hit first on the other side because we do not have synergy with the BiH anti-urban system. We had the most damage to Drina, in the municipalities of Bajina Basta, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, and the next. So there was a problem everywhere. Here, Veran yells at Kocelev. The next two to go are the Radar Center of Bukulja, the Arangelovac, because there's plenty of fruit, because there's the biggest damage that's happening, because there's the biggest added value we're losing. And the next one will be the Fruska Gora Radar Centre, because it covers the Srema area, southern Backa, one part of the Banata operation and can protect a large amount of agricultural land. We need such radar systems to build 13 total, at 13 radar centers. The total cost for all is around 25m euros. The first will be built early next year by the new season. A contract was signed with "Tralalal" from Kruševac, a domestic company that will build this and we will have much more efficiency than we have so far, if nothing else, much greater predictability and ability to control. To keep people safe and to know, the anti-urban system can't protect 100% like this. It can be 60% to 70% in extreme situations to protect space. We have to combine that with financial instruments. Yes, Mr. Petrovic, you said - don't talk to me about insurance, but it has to be an addition to all this. For the next year for this space that has been most exposed in the previous years, this space with Drina, we will provide additional support for these local self-governments, which will be up to 70% refund of the insurance premium. I hope we make a system that's more predictable, better and more efficient. This year, this year was amazing, this year is the largest amount of rockets that's been fired I think in the last 20 years. That's because we had a year like that, especially in May and June. Given the amount of city days, the damage that happened, unfortunately, we had in central Serbia's space, there around Topola, Arangelovac, the Great Plan, we managed to protect the rest of the premises, but we didn't make it all. With this new system, I hope that efficiency will be much higher. I say, next year, the Valjevo Radar Center, we call tenders for these two, i.e. To Fruschia Gora and to Bukulja and let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47790	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47791	Thank you. First of all, honourable MPs, I want to point out that the energy situation in the Republic of Serbia is absolutely stable. We have an entirely peaceful winter and warm season in which all energy companies enter are fully ready. When it comes to heating, heats have carried out the necessary repairs. More than 80% of the heat in Serbia that use gas as energy can expect a fully stable gas supply, given that the situation, when it comes to gas, is absolutely regular. We have a "Gasproma" complete gas supply. "Gasprom" for the gas delivered we don't owe a single dollar, not a single dollar, not a euro. The Banatski Court underground gas storage facility is up to the top a lot. So, 450 million feet of cubic gas is waiting, first of all, for those moments during the coldest days in which we're going to iron peaks with that full warehouse. When it comes to the remaining energy required for the operation of the heat, the mule reserves are at an extremely high level. When it comes to several coal - working heats, coal supply will be regular. When it comes to EPS, the EPS has realised all necessary repairs. Serbia's electricity industry is absolutely ready to respond in the winter season to increased requirements related to electricity production. We're ready for winter picks. In that sense, at this point coal reserves are high-level dumps. By those coldest days, they will be raised to maximum. There is absolutely no problem that I could point to from the point of view of energy stability, security of energy supply and a completely regular winter ahead of us. Of course, in the whole process there are always certain difficulties that, I say, make us work harder and work far stronger in certain segments. When we had problems with coal last year, we had to, of course, at times when we had the opportunity to strengthen the hydrosector. When hydrology is weak, we strengthen the thermosect and our energy sector is fully prepared to balance these situations through which it is regularly going through over the years. In objective terms, at this point we have a lower level of water supply on all rivers in Serbia. What I would like to point out is that the latest official data shows that water stops on all rivers in Serbia are in a low range for this time of year. There is a colleague, Mihajlovic. Unfortunately, because of these waterways, we have serious problems in maintaining navigation on the Danube and Sava, and even in certain shares, there are no barges under the full burden of passing and these restrictions objectively exist. That, of course, is also reflected in the accumulations. So in the accumulations we have a 10% lower level than what is planned, according to the EPS business plan, I would like to remind you, all these batteries are artificial accumulations built for the needs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. In that sense, I received questions during yesterday or the day before yesterday from the People's MP Mr Goran Cabradi and MP Goran Ciric, whom we will answer in the course of tomorrow or at the latest Monday about the state of accumulation. With this ending, water stops, I repeat, the situation of energy is completely stable. We do not expect any problems, although the water stops in Serbia are at an extremely low level for this time of year. For example, the average multi-annual flow of Danube is about 4,000 metres of cubic water per second, and the current average daily flow is 1,850 meters cubic per second. So twice as much water flows through Gerdap compared to that average in a year. Unfortunately, this October will, in all likelihood, remain recorded in the history of the Gerdap hydropower plant, as in October, where water flows are at the lowest level. So far, the lowest water flow recorded on Gerdap was in 1986 and recorded at 2,237 cubic metres per second. This year, based on all the results of the hydrological movement, it is expected to be around 2,000 by the end of the month, so it is ten percent lower than the lowest. As far as Zavojsko Lake is concerned, I think fellow Ciric asked, the current angle is 593 meters. It's 25 meters above some minimum angle that predicts the operation of the hydropower plant. During the exploitation of the pyrot hydro power plant, a number of times lower levels of accumulation than current ones were recorded. For example, the last time in 2017 when 573, it is now 593. So, 10 meters above. Absolutely all checks by the competent state authorities, above all, nature protection, water management, and absolutely no negative impact on the conservation of the environment, flora and fauna, the fish fund, etc. When it comes to Uvac, the Uvac is currently located on 970 meters corners, and we have a water business permit that can be exploited up to 940 meters. So it's 30 meters above that angle right now. For example, in 2012, the angle was 950, on 27 December 2000 the lowest 943 was recorded. So today it's 27 meters above that angle. Same situation on Vlasina. When it comes to Vlasina, we are far above that corner that would be worrying and strictly EPS takes care of all these segments and is subject to the strictest control of all competent state authorities, above all, related to water and environmental protection. I repeat, colleagues of Ciric, whom I see in the hall, and colleagues of Cabradi, during tomorrow you will receive absolutely detailed answers with all the data related to each accumulation in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47792	Thank you. A comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47793	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answers. I can conclude that winter will be safe, there will be electricity, there will be heating, agricultural producers will be more protected next year, that is, their agricultural crops. As far as children are concerned, I can tell you that mothers have children, the state takes care of you, will regularly pay what is rightfully yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47794	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47795	Honored representatives of the government, respected fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping all! After three years, we have come to ask the government a question only thanks to colleagues from the three parliamentary groups of opposition who have retreated to not ask a question so that we can too. I really thank them for that. There's been a lot of questions, so let's get going as soon as possible. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia sign a legally binding agreement with the false state of Kosovo, which so-called Kosovo. Kosovo allows entry into the UN? Yes or no. Who authorized President Vukic to secretly negotiate Kosovo and Metohija? Will you finally publicly deny here that anyone secretly negotiates on Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, who should also be given the so-called "Bujanovac". An independent Kosovo? When will domestic businessmen be able to count on income tax cuts and other aid from foreign investors and domestic farmers to increase catastrophicly small subsidies? When are you going to cut the price of diesel fuel that is most expensive in Europe, as you promised? When exactly? I'm looking for an exact date, not a new fake promise. Is the government considering tax reform in favour of the family, which would result in a new reduction in the income tax and property tax for each child? How is it possible that the state has not yet solved the problem of bank robbery through loans indexed in Swiss francs that have more than 20,000 families in Serbia? When will the law on the investigation of the origin of all the politicians and tycoons that the SNS promised 10 years ago be passed? When will all the workers damaged in the robbery privatisation finally be paid back for their backs and severances and associated labor? When will the law on war veterans and the resolved questions of country war participants from 1991 to 1999 finally be passed? Why does the government sell our natural resources, ore, agricultural land and river flows? Are the following for sale by the Commercial Bank, Telekom and EPS and will anything then remain Serbian in Serbia? When will you repay 850m euros to the pensioners, how many have you taken from them for the previous four years, and how many out of the 850,000 pensioners robbed died in the meantime and will not face justice? Who is the Minister of Culture in the Government of the Republic of Serbia - Vladan Vukosavljevic or Zeljko Mitrovica? When will TV Pink be taken away from the national frequency due to abuse? When will the opposition after more than eight months be able to see it on RTS? And finally, in the previous six years, has the SNS embezzled in various elections or washed six million euros in various ways since the 2012 presidential elections in different ways, criminally, robbed by Serbian citizens, through the SNS election account? Who will be responsible for this crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47796	Time. Anna Brnabic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47797	Thank you. Let me just start by saying, here's the second time, I think, in turn I hear in the National Assembly, the MP of Bosko Obradovic say it's his first time to ask questions. This is my second time to hear, and last time you said, "Here's the first time I've come to my turn." Here, this is the second time you've come your first turn. That's how it was, there's a video. I'll try to answer some of the questions between 1,000 why and 1,000 why. First, what's falling into my eyes, which is amazing to me is that you're talking about robbery privatisations, and that's where we agree, but you don't hate that those who finished those robbery privatisations are sitting with you today in the coalition, that so-called Alliance for Serbia. It would be easier, and you probably talk to them every day on a daily basis, to ask them about these robbery privatisations, not to ask us. I think that the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia will continue to act in accordance with its powers and will investigate these robbery privatisations further, but ask your colleagues how they did it and what they got, how they took the incredible hypocrisy to sit with them, and you're talking about robbery privatisations. Perhaps they should ask you - why are you now in the Assembly to spit them out when you are together in the Alliance with Serbia? As far as the media is concerned, I'll give you a brief and clear answer. While I am the Prime Minister of Serbia and this government is in power we will not shut down the media and we will not take away the frequencies from the media, nor is it the government's job, nor is it a rule in democratic societies, as Serbia is. If you don't give God one day you come to power, I'm sure you'll shut down the media, limit them, arrest the press, and if you don't like what they say, you'll take away the frequencies. We won't. But it's very nice of you, extremely fair and correct, to tell you completely transparently and openly what you're going to do with the media that disagree with you. The media can disagree with us, let them talk about what they want, of course, this is an open democratic society, and that's how it's going to stay. He's negotiating in secret Alexander Vukitch, and I don't really know how Alexander Vukitch negotiates in secret. I'm not surprised because, believe me, I only took a look at it, because I've been expecting things like this for the last months of what I've been through, and what a threat Alexander Vukic of your party has been to, and also from your coalition. I took it to see how I could answer questions like this. So, Aleksandar Vukic negotiates in secret, so I will tell you several times the claims of various opposition leaders and reminding the citizens of Serbia that Hashim Thaci, and I quote that, is the lobbyist of Serbia in the world in negotiations with Pristina. Thaci and Vukic meet in secret twice, they know how many times they meet secretly, once in Paris, and in New York, people meet secretly, you know how many times and where, and then they sit with Federik Mogerini and they do everything in agreement. It's so true that Alexander Vukitch is negotiating something secret. He does not negotiate anything secret and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know very well. Aleksandar Vukic is trying to find a solution to the decades-old problem so that, with the full support of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I will just add, and if you all know, to ensure long-term peace and stability in KIM, above all, for the citizens of Serbia and Serbian nationality, but then certainly for the whole region. And what he's doing is not secret, it's brave, it's open, it's transparent, and it's certainly something that he does himself without hiding, which is again completely opposite, which is mostly what you're talking about. The last time was for Tony Blair to negotiate. Now it's not Tony Blair that's negotiating, it's Alexander Wolfie secretly, so where's Tony Blair gone? Did you ask us what happened to Tony Blair? Before that, it was to negotiate Kori Levandovski. There were some other lobbyists. Have you given up on those theories or are you still standing in front of them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47798	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47799	I'd just like to complete the esteemed Prime Minister. It wouldn't just be about closing the media and getting frequencies. There would be first of all beating up journalists like that happened to Mari Dragojevic and Gordani Zelek. They'd knock someone out first, especially if it was a woman and if it was smaller builds and a man comes in and breaks her ribs or knocks her out. That would be the first, and then there would be political arguments like the whole coalition did, and you saw what they did to judges and prosecutors when they made a decision, and they said, "Yeah, we saw what they did, we remembered you. What does that mean when someone remembers a judge for a verdict? Is that judge supposed to fear when he makes the verdict what happens to him tomorrow when someone else comes to power, when someone's party trying to decide who's guilty and who's not guilty? That the parties decide who's supposed to be arrested? What time are we going back to or where are we going? I don't think that's what happened in Serbia. So, first they'd knock out journalists, first of all journalists if they could, then they'd take their frequencies. I'm afraid we'd be coming to the studio during television shows if someone isn't happy to have people telling you and buying journalists and what they're saying right now in the van and driving right now but maybe not in jail, maybe somewhere worse. That would unfortunately be the first thing. Another thing, as far as robbery privatisation is concerned, I think the president said it very well and should ask your coalition partners who mainly participated in the adoption of regulations that allowed someone who wanted to privatise the people's property to take it, without paying what the contract intended, to sell out that factory, to cut it into pieces, to take what was in storage, to fire the workers, and then to break up the privatisation contract and say – I'm not able to meet it and nobody, and travel somewhere to Australia, and then you get a broken factory, workers fired and 400 thousand such people, and then you sit together in the coalition, and that's all great, and then when people vote they should know, when they vote for Boška Obradović, when they vote for Dveri, they get in the package and these people. That's the same thing. It's exactly the same. People also need to know what Kosovo is about when they vote for Dvori, when they vote for Bosca Obradovic to vote for those who have decided to establish a border on Jarinj and Brnjak. When voting for Bosnia, they should know that they are voting for those who have decided not to discuss Kosovo anymore in the UN, but rather to discuss in the EU, and this is today supported by Bosko Obradovic. He's all the force for it. When they vote for Bosko Obradovic, they get people who have introduced a customs agreement. So we introduced customs between Serbia and our southern province. When voting for Bosko Obradovic, they vote for people who have put in place a question in front of the International Court of Justice for the perfect, top-of-the-line, maestral knowledge and have led some countries to acknowledge so-called. The independence of KIM and these people are sitting together, fully supporting each other, and they are essentially the same. People don't need to make a difference at all, because you know when you're sitting with people who have conducted robbery privatisations or passed laws that made it possible or were in power and kept silent when the state robbed or supported these robbery privatisations or participated in kidnapping and reducing our statehood to KIM, then you're the same. Then you're the same, then there's no difference. Then you can't say -- well, no, we're for this, we're, you can't beat people up on the myths and say, "I'm for family, I'm for respecting the right." You can't threaten rape, beating, shooting and hanging and saying - I'm for normal Serbia, it doesn't work, it can't work together, it just doesn't work, and these are the things you can talk about. Secondly, as far as money laundering is concerned, it seems to me that it is mostly within the scope of your party's work. So it's mostly you who have been pumping money out of your budget during your operation, and that's what the procedures are for. They were pumping money out of their budgets to various companies because of the different machinations and malfeasances that, you can see the pump-up invoices, and it was obviously the moment everyone was talking about the most and the most. These are the things to be mentioned. As far as everything goes, I think Serbian citizens see who are the people who today are trying to fix what we were left with, because you know when you look at that time when Mr. Obradovic's coalition partners, with whom he is in the coalition today, had the average minimum earnings in Serbia of 162 euros, that she will be 231 euros, shows how much she thinks of both the poorest and the poorest citizens of Serbia and how much she cares about pensioners, how much she cares about jobs. They didn't open factories, they shut them down. They went to protest against foreign investors, these are the same people, to remind you, who went in election campaigns to places where foreign investors' factories should be opened and asked for those factories to be closed. You should then go to a Krupanj that's been hit by heavy floods and come and tell those people who work in these factories today, get out of these factories, leave your wages, don't feed your children. Why do you need that money from foreign investors? It is not difficult for them to take home money to sit in the congregation, to receive salaries, solid, high wages, it is not difficult for them, but they are sorry that someone is receiving, so excuse me, those people have been left out of work. These people were destroyed in some previous period. So, what are we supposed to do? Let's look on the side, who's gonna open it? Which domestic investor was left without the support of the subsidy, and if he asked... Unfortunately, you left the country, your coalition partners, you together because it's the same thing, you left a country without people who are able to invest today, because they're ruined and poor. Well, who shows up? And then when someone from abroad comes to leave their money here, these people come to make a profit of course, but they bring some wages to some people, go home, feed their children. That's what Alexander Vukitch brought. That's what the SNS brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47800	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47801	You asked for tax breaks, yeah, it's planned. At this stage, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry, or the cabinet of which I am head and the entire government, are very interested in stimulating business and all other entities that will exhibit socio-responsible behaviour towards the employees' parents. The government's policy is that every child born is valuable, that every child born in Serbia should be included in the health, education system and that investment must go towards being as few children in street situations as possible and as many children, of course, born as their parents' wanted children. A single mother is just as important to us as the one who is married. We do not distinguish between women who have defined themselves to live with their partner in an extramarital or marriage community and a very respectful tradition, we believe that stimulation and population measures must refer to any parent who wants to be a parent, every child who is born, who is to grow, develop, play, educate and live happily. In this sense, we must get rid of some oscillators by a little discriminatory attitude towards women who live in classical forms of social life, in relation to one modern woman and those who advocate family support, we suggest that they participate in the advisory work that we organise, which concerns strengthening the partnership relationship, because the child is from psychological, material, emotional and all other reasons equally necessary for both parents to take part in all segments of his life. So our plans are to stimulate all those economic, state, financial entities that have socially responsible behaviour towards employees, to develop awareness that the parent is potentially the best worker and can contribute to the most profit precisely because he cares about both his child and himself and thus further develop these trends that I have said in the previous few sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47802	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47803	Thank you. First of all, I fully agree with both the Prime Minister and Vice President Stefanovic that we have a complete replacement for thesis here, when we use the terminology of robbery privatisation. First, robbery privatisation is an expression that can and has been used and can only be linked to a time when real privatisation in Serbia has been implemented. It has been implemented in Serbia since 2000, and then everything worth it was privatised in Serbia, the biggest privatisation revenues have been in the period from 2003-2004. Only a list of over 500 enterprises in restructuring awaited us, read – companies that went through bankruptcy. All now privatization under the name that is being solved is being addressed by the company's restructuring problem. So RTB was a restructuring company that was de facto bankrupt because it had billions of dollars in debt. So it is really impossible to talk about privatisation now, but only only about solving decades of problems that have deeply burdened Serbia and our budget, because all the problems related to these businesses have been paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the other hand, it is absolutely impossible to say that someone is selling out the mineral wealth of the Republic of Serbia because in the strategic partnership process with RTB Bora, the value of the company, or the mineral wealth in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are property of the Republic of Serbia and they are neither sold nor donated to anyone. They are owned by the Republic of Serbia. The RTB Bor company as it has so far had and the future remains the right to exploit on the basis of which it pays compensation to the Republic of Serbia and nothing but the right of exploitation that takes place in accordance with the law that very clearly defines the rights and obligations of the company that makes exploitation When the fuel price is, above all, the complete truth is that the price of fuel, neither gas nor diesel in Serbia is the most expensive, neither in Europe nor in the region. When it comes to the region, gasoline is more expensive in Greece, Albania, Croatia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Hungary. When it comes to diesel, diesel is more expensive in Greece, Albania, Croatia and Serbia is somewhere in the ego. As far as diesel is concerned, 20 European countries have an expensive price and gasoline and diesel from the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing that in the past period there has been a certain rise in the prices of pump derivatives in the Republic of Serbia. The jump is exclusively due to the rise in the price of crude oil on the world market and the rise in the dollar that is the accounting currency around the world when oil is and when oil derivatives are concerned. As an indicator of that fact, only a year ago the price of crude oil on the world market was $55 per barrel, in the first week of October it was 86.29. We're spending that price now. So, you see for yourself, that's more than 40% of the growth. The growth was the most dramatic in the period from August 15th when the price of crude oil went by 22%. This one, I think, is the best way to show it. This has affected all the prices, everywhere in the world, and even in our region, which is absolutely import-dependent when oil is raw, even a number of derivatives are imported further. These peaks in Serbia are very modest and I must say they are absolutely out of line with other countries in the region. For example, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which for a long time had the lowest price of elevators in the region, the price of elevators was 1.7km, and today it is 2.30, 2.40km. So she grew significantly unlike us, where that growth was, let me say, kind of tempered. We expect that this price will be stabilised, it is already stabilised, and that there will be a slight decline and the price that is primarily, I repeat, prices of crude oil on the world market. In recent days, there has been a slight decline, and I expect it to be transferred very quickly to the price of the gas station derivatives in Serbia. I repeat, this price and this price rise are not even increased for prominence by any measure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but only by the rise in the price of crude oil on the world market and by the rise of dollars, which was almost 104 today and up to a few months ago, 99, so the dollar has gone by more than 4%. And once again, because of the public in Serbia, the price of derivatives in Serbia is absolutely untrue that it is the highest in the region. Greece, Albania, Croatia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Hungary have more expensive gasoline. Greece, Albania and Croatia – more expensive diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47804	Thank you, Minister Antic. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47805	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the issue of contributions, that is, the fiscal burden of earnings, as early as last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia took the first step towards reducing the fiscal burden on profits by raising the untaxed share of profits, the level of earnings, from 11.790 dinars to 15,000 dinars. This difference is not paid and it was only the first step and the first signal that we are committed to slowly reducing the fiscal burden on earnings, which is the requirement of the largest number of employers in our country, both foreign and domestic. We have made a decision since 1 January 2019, with the elimination of the employer's unemployment contribution of 0.75%. This reduces the total fiscal burden on earnings from 63% to 62%. This is the first, or second, and yet another major step towards reducing the fiscal burden on earnings to make our labour market even more competitive, to make our country more competitive and attractive for investment and to keep this trend from reducing the unemployment rate, increasing the number of employees and opening new factories and growing our economy and maintaining it. What is a priority for us in the next period, not to forget, I apologize, as of October 1st, as well as to support our young people, we have tax reliefs where, for those who are six months at work, who have finished college, and want to start their business, you have the opportunity to start and start your business, not pay your taxes for a year, and you and your first nine employees also contribute. So in this way we try to make the labour market even more competitive and make our young people an opportunity to start their business. Otherwise, there is no difference between subsidies for foreign and domestic investors, absolutely both conditions and rules are the same. I think we've made great progress in that. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, we have 4.9% of GDP growth this year. We are among the few fastest growing economies in Europe, so no more in the region, the region we have overcome, in Europe. As a result, with almost 26% of the unemployment rate in 2013, we are now at 11.9% still high, but from month to month we see progress and the number of employees is growing, which is exactly the basis of our policies that are currently being implemented. What we need and want to do in the next period, especially since 2019 and beyond, is to keep this high growth rate and even try to increase it. So by the end of the year, here, it's already a month, a month and a half, two days, we're going to go out, I just said, with a new strategy that's related to reducing the fiscal burden of profit. We are going with tax incentives that apply to the entire economy, as well as to the IT industry, which will make this industry more attractive for investment in the coming period. Many of our people are already working there and we had over a billion euros in revenue from that industry last year and we want to improve that in the future. We're going with the new law on fees. The important thing that businesses in Serbia are also looking for is waiting for a few, I would say, more than a decade, and now we're going to do and do, in the 2019 budget, which you're going to have a chance to see in a few weeks, you have over 200 billion dinars just for capital investments. So another strong incentive for further development. There are projects relating to the construction of the Moravia Corridor and continue to build Corridor 11 and a large number of other and tunnels, highways, bridges and railway lines that should further boost the development of our economy. Finally, not to forget to mention one very important thing for the citizens of Serbia and for all those who follow the economic movements in our country, a decision has been made and adopted, that since 1 January 2019, the minimum labour price has risen from 143 to 155 dinars. This will increase the minimum profit to over 27 000 dinars for the first time. I think it's very important, because the previous authorities and during previous authorities, the minimum labour price either increased slightly or increased by one or two percent, or it didn't increase at all. We started at 130 dinars, at 143, now at 155. So, progressively, the minimum labour price increases, which only means better standards and better quality of life for our workers, and of course a big message that our public finances have stabilized and that we are entering the next year with a fully balanced budget. For the third year in a row, we are in a surplus, as you know, we are for the first nine months of this year, the surplus is almost 50 billion dinars, and it gives us the right to plan the 2019 budget so that we will have money for capital investments and social contributions and for all that is necessary to raise the quality of life and standards in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47806	Thank you, Minister. The word has a Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47807	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, may sound boring, but the man has asked and we must answer, it is our duty under the Rules of Procedure. The MP asked and it is my duty to answer. Since it was a series of questions, there has to be a series of answers. One issue that was present is when it will be increased, i.e. why agricultural subsidies do not increase. The reminders, not bad from time to time to remember, seven years ago the agricultural subsidy budget was 110m to 115m euros in 2011 and 2012. Today, the state budget of the Republic of Serbia is 270, 280m euros, 2.5 times more in seven years. As far as I went to school, this is more than the first one. Plus, we also have funds from IPARD funds available every year for 40.50m euros. We didn't have a situation until this year. I think that's more than ever. There's one thing I have to say here, which the MP who asked the question, was a related topic with the food industry, that is, agricultural land for privatisation and all these other wonders. Specific example, 2016, April, site of the event Sremska Mitrovica, Meat Processing Factory “Mitros”. Reminders work, this factory has not worked for ten years, it employs 350 people, 2016 in April is open. There comes a certain gentleman who asked this question in front of the factory and said – this should be closed. There's nothing left for me, but to explain to those people that someone wanted to leave their families without 50, 60 grand, because there's so much pay. Would that be fair? Maybe from his point of view, our job after ten years was to revitalise that factory. She's an exporter today, she has 800 cooperatives in our city today. Now, you guys, figure out what's better in the whole story. I know this gentleman knows this is true what I'm saying. It's probably a better lock than 350 jobs, as much as we've managed to secure there, and not just this factory, but other factories. One story that's about diesel fuel. The government is considering, the government wants to solve this problem for agricultural producers but, gentlemen dear, we can cover ourselves as long as the yorgan is long. I'll remind you of only one agriculture minister from 2009. The man has promised subsidies for non-commercial holdings of 40,000 dinars, for a year he interrupted everything, he says – this is no longer valid. Today, we have 59,000 lawsuits from all over Serbia, mostly from the Mačvan County, people who filed an appeal request. It's not just that now -- pay those 20,000 or 40,000 for not being paid, but all the court expenses and all the set. The state of Serbia has paid 1.2 billion in the past few years on behalf of an irresponsible assessment, decisions, I don't know what it is, so what am I supposed to say now? Maybe I'd be the best if I said yes, we'll settle it in two minutes, we'll give 50 dinars a liter, but as long as the yorgan is, we can cover ourselves. I can't promise and I can't do what we haven't finished the complete financial structure for yet. When we're done, we'll notify everyone in this country. It'll be my first pleasure to do it. But we can't be irresponsible about how some behave. This isn't the only example, this is one of the examples in this whole story. So much for now for agriculture, maybe another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47808	Thank you, Minister Nedimovic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47809	In the beginning, I will quote the famous lyrics of Jovanovic the Dragon from the song “Pachi School” – Nothing learns the pasaurli more than she knew him, but him, ga, ga, ga, ga, ga. So of the 12 issues, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not answered any real opposition questions. It is easy for you to answer the questions of Vojislav Seselj, Cedomir Jovanovic or Nenada Canka of the false opposition... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47810	Comrade Obradich, will you focus on the question or on the Dragon? Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47811	Thank you, Chairman. Let's get back to the point. You have reduced unemployment by over 200,000 people dying more than you were born by six years of your authority and by 400,000 people leaving this country for six years. That's how you reduce unemployment. And how did you fill the budget? By reducing wages and pensions, increasing taxes, taxes and excise duties, reducing subsidies to agricultural producers and increasing diesel fuel prices, Mr. Minister, where you affect the price by 55%, how much excise duties and VAT are in the price of diesel fuel in Serbia, which is one of the most expensive in Europe. Let's go solve some problems. Why didn't you prosecute those responsible for the robbery privatisation for these six years? Why is there no law on the investigation of the origin of all the politicians and tycoons you promised ten years ago? Why is there a former director of the Privatisation Agency in the government, one of its sectors, Mr. Sinisha Mali? Why don't you prosecute him and prosecute him for robbery privatisation, for which he is directly responsible, but for putting him in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Don't deceive and lie to this people. We never said that the factories opened by foreign investors were closed, but that our money from the budget that you robbed from the citizens, who you cut their salaries and pensions, was given to our businessmen and farmers, not to foreign investors, and that's true. As for the Deputy Prime Minister of Mr Nebojša Stefanovic, he could answer the question – was his father involved in arms trafficking and did he give his own father permission to trade weapons? Of course, he could answer one very important question – is it true that between the two rounds of the 2012 presidential election, the SNS paid two million euros at the expense of a non-existent marketing agency that is not in the APR, behind which Vucic's best man, Goran Veselinovic, and thus transferred state money to party private pockets? Finally, a key question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, a question for each minister in person, and I ask them for a direct answer – are they ready to accept Kosovo in the UN and the demarcation as an exchange of territories on the principle of ours? Yes or no? When did the government, like the one leading Serbia's foreign policy, empower Alexander Vukic to negotiate secretly? When we brought a negotiating platform with negotiations to the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47812	Ambassador, you didn't seem to be at this class, you asked and you got the answer. You've got the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47813	When will Kosovo and Metohija come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? For two and a half years, you have been hiding from Serbian citizens what you are secretly negotiating behind the back of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. Please answer the question - who authorized Alexander Vukic and when you gave him the negotiating platform, when she was here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Who gives you the right to trade parts of state territory? You haven't answered the question again whether you're negotiating Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji or giving away that part of state territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47814	Thank you. It's been a while, and I've given you a few more seconds. To some questions you have received answers, do not ask the same question, choke the possibility of others asking questions. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47815	All right, let's take it easy now. I think you got us confused. I think you're talking to us, and you're thinking about your coalition partners. First you're talking about robbery privatisation, please contact your colleagues from the so-called an alliance for Serbia, which is everything but an alliance for Serbia. It may be an alliance for everything else, but it's not for Serbia. You're talking and insisting on secret negotiations. I can fully understand that you in the alliance are used to your usual secret negotiations. Secret negotiations are neither Alexander Vukic nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor the SNS, nor the ruling coalition. We have nothing to hide, so we have no secret negotiations. Your coalition partners, may I remind you, although you have again accused us so many times that we take lobbying houses to negotiate, you, your coalition partners, have taken lobbying houses to negotiate. So, you address how true it is, how two lobbying houses in 2011 negotiated about KIM so successfully that we had as many recognitions as we had, and in the term of office of this government are withdrawing recognitions. Well, one got a million 400,000 dollars for her lobbyist services, and the other got $900,000 for her logistics services. The second is “Podesta group”. At the same time as she signed a contract with the Serbian government, the "Podesta Group" signed the same agreement with Kosovo. Now, these are your partners. We don't negotiate secretly. This means you're negotiating in secret. In 2009, the United States of Advance Practice Solutions from Chicago, for lobbying purposes in the United States, monthly fee, monthly fee 85,000 dollars. Monthly. No, that's not what this government of the Republic of Serbia does. That is why I tell you, you have confused us, I think. By the way, you question your decision to be in a coalition with the people who did it. Besides, I don't know how, I see they're getting me back for Tony Blair. Dear People's Messenger, for throwing me for Tony Blair, let me tell you how true that is. Here, let me try to tell you how true it is. In 2018, the 30th March Vuk Jeremic announced, on 30 March 2018, he declared – Vukić tried directly in New York to hire an expensive lobbyist firm, but they still did not answer whether they wanted to accept the engagement. He's waiting for an answer from them right now. Please ask Vuk Jeremic if we got that answer, because we didn't sign anything, but he has this secret information that is completely, he guarantees the truthfulness of this information. So that was March 30th. Well, April 18th, Vuk Jeremic says -- controversial businessman Kori Levandovski is coming to Belgrade for an agreement with Aleksandar Vukic. The wolf only asked for one thing from Levandovski, a phone call with Tramp. After that conversation, Donald Trump will write a tweet that Aleksandar Vukic is a very brave man, and in return he can get whatever he wants, cash, business plan, some land in New Belgrade. And that was the information, quite accurate, that you placed on the citizens of Serbia. Nothing happened, but, well, it doesn't matter. It's important, it's important to throw the mud, it's going to stay for a while, as long as it stays just great for you, maybe you get a voice. Well, then we have 18, March 2018. The wolf was supposed to travel secretly to New York and have dinner with the Soros family, but it was discovered. It is true that President Aleksandar Vukic travelled the commercial flight "Er Serbia". He was secretly traveling on a commercial flight, so he was discovered, please. Now, then, this is the top, too, of those pearls that you place on Serbian citizens, February 24, 2018. Angela Merkel doesn't want to see Alexander Vukic anymore, it says from her good, excellent sources, Vuk Jeremic. Angela Merkel doesn't want to see Alexander Vuker anymore, because she read it. President Alexander Vukic saw himself with Chancellor Angela Merkel the next day. So you're waving the NIN team. It's as true as all this other stuff you said was true. Just keep selling conspiracy theories. Realistically, I think it is better for you again to try to disprove the facts and facts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can show to the citizens of Serbia, which you call - ga, ga, ga, ga, ga. Now, the "ga, ga, ga, ga", the honourable MP, is that in the first half of this year, Serbia had an economic growth of 4.9%, that the inflow of foreign direct investment by August was one billion euros, or 5.1% more than in 2017, which was record, that unemployment fell to below 12% and 11.9%, respectively, that Serbia had progressed five places on the global competitiveness list of the World Economic Forum and had reached Croatia for the first time. So, now in the region we are the only, or from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, only Slovenia is better ranked than we are, that according to the World Bank's Human Capital Index, we are positioned as 27 of the 150 countries on this list, which is better even than China, than Russia, from Spain. We're only one place above Belgium. We are here in the ranks of the most developed countries in the world. We've abolished the Retirement Act. Since 2012, we've raised the minimum wage by as much as 42%. I remind you that your coalition partners raised it by 1.8% from 2009 to 2012. From 159 euros, as it was in 2009 to 162 euros as it was in 2012. From January 1st, it will be 230 euros. I would think that as an honest patriot, you look forward to it. No, that's what's wrong with you. You simply cannot forgive the government of the Republic of Serbia or Alexander Vukic or the SNS. You can't. I'd also add, speaking of the most vulnerable you've been so worried about since 2010, the budget has been increased three times since 2010. That in 2017, 14.6 billion dinars were allocated to the most vulnerable. It's never been singled out for the most endangered again. And, finally, let me tell you one more thing, let me try it, and I'll leave time, of course, to my colleagues, so when you say we don't let mines sell out to strangers anymore. This is the same case as the Dublin Agreement, but at least the MP of the sea, I think, is obliged not to hate to read it, if not the law then the Constitution of Serbia. And that it is not right that the government must educate the MP that both the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia are the mines that are always and exclusively owned by the Republic of Serbia. But it's like the Dublin Agreement, let's hang Anna Brnabic, and next to her right now, Alexander Vukic, because we heard it, it's the same information, from these same sources that say that Alexander Vukic will never see Angela Merkel, so he's seeing her tomorrow, that he's secretly traveling to New York, and he's going on a commercial flight. Now, according to that information, we initialed the Dublin Agreement, if you had looked at the Dublin Agreement, if you had opened it, if you had read it, if you hadn't read the Dublin Agreement, if you'd read the Wikipedia page of the Dublin Agreement, you'd know that we couldn't even paralyze that agreement. But I ask you once again, I urge you, to have a more constructive discussion, in the interest of, above all, Serbian citizens, to read something, to educate yourself somehow, and then to ask us questions that we can answer in a debate that suits the level of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47816	Thank you. The word has the vice-president, Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47817	Unfortunately, there are a lot of things that are not true, and it's hard to show people in a short time, but let's start with the key things about employment, unemployment. Employment is, above all, measured by increasing the number of jobs you achieve in your country. Mr. Obradovic was the one who, you remember, went to a campaign, it was the company "Teklas Automotive", he went in front of the company and asked for, in fact, he did not seek, he symbolically closed it. He symbolically closed it, and I think we should explain it to young people who got hired there, young engineers, people who work there to explain to them what they should do, if he, God forbid, ever comes to power, for those people, it will mean that they will lose their jobs directly. It means that these people, for sure, all those who are employed by foreign companies in Serbia, will have to fear because these foreign investors will think about whether to withdraw immediately, or within seven days, how long it takes them to pack. So that's how long it'll take them to decide to leave our country. And that will mean not 100 or 1,000 jobs lost, but tens of thousands that are open. Because what they're saying, like they don't see, or they won't see, both factories and Johnson Electric and Svarovski and Leoni, and Ginsi and Simens and all those we've opened and Meita, and all those we've opened in the previous four years, for which Alexander Vukic has done a huge thing for this country. Remember what it looked like to Smeder and Iron, that's what people forget. What kind of situation we were in with the Modern Iron, where she was in a situation where five thousand people might be out of a job at the same time. They advised them to grow mushrooms, and I don't know what else. It'd be best if it were. Where did we go with Bora? You know, when people say that, no one answers, there's no hero when the price of copper on the world market falls to two or two and a half thousand dollars a ton, then there's no big heroes to explain how to pay the people who work there. It's easy when that price is six, seven, or eight thousand a ton. When it falls to two and a half thousand, what do we do? Who's gonna pay for it, who's to guarantee it? Today, China is the only one in the most serious way that affects the price, because it is the largest producers and mine owners in the world. The only one who can seriously influence that price and best be the one who can affect the price of our mine, what's the one who can't affect it? And, unfortunately, the fact. As far as the subsidy is concerned, to remind the citizens, the subsidies that are given, are paid in 14 months. Since the 14th month, the state has had absolute income through both taxes and contributions. Every single dollar returns, each, after the 14th month, and there is no company in Serbia that has remained less than that. And not only that, the citizens who work there, the citizens of our country have since the first day of profit, the ones who have been out of work, or they have never had a job, they have it in these companies today. And to be perfectly honest, not to lie, give other countries in our region of subsidies, not in the world, give in our region of subsidies. We have to enter the competition to get these companies into our country, and on the 14th month, it's absolutely worth it. As for KIM, Alexander Vukic received 80% of the votes in KIM from the people who were there, 80% of the votes. Not people, so the people who live there may not know anyone in downtown Belgrade, but they know the people who live on KIM, who thinks well of him, who fights for him. That man is fighting under the most difficult circumstances. He went before his people, he was allowed to appear. Even when they tell him you can't come to Gazid, he goes there first. Those who are great guardians, must not leave, must not speak to this people, must not go to the Serbs, let not God go to one of the enclaves to visit them, far away. These people can't do it because they don't trust that people. It's just something that's amazing that anyone can even mention. I'm going to answer in one sentence because it's mentioned several times, I think I'm obliged to say it for the public's sake. No company in which my father was ever owned or owned, had a dinar of traffic, no arms-related traffic, no dinar of traffic, never produced anything, never bought anything and never sold anything, none of those companies, which can be seen, it's a very easily verifiable data, it's not a falsified data. You can see that at any moment, no single bullet. But Mr. Jeremic was giving some of the companies mentioned in those papers, in that newspaper, Mr. Jeremic was giving them permission to firearms at a time when he was foreign minister and that ministry was giving them one of the key permits. The MAP only gives permission to say that the transport of weapons in our country's territory is secure, not whether it gives permission to see whether the country is under international sanctions and whether it has opportunities. That's what other ministries give. Mr. Jeremic was a minister who granted permits to these companies and traded weapons on behalf of our country, with the same companies and not only him, but also his other coalition partners. So that's what the fact is. However, I will no longer waste citizens' time on something that is complete fiction. There are more important other things, which is who Mr. Patrick Hou is, and what is the interest of Mr. Patrick Ho, to give Mr. Obradovic's coalition partner a million euros, to pay him in the account, and to have him arrested for money laundering. So it's not arrested in Serbia, it's arrested abroad. And from what I hear, we'll see what happens. Some European police are interested in other coalition partners of Mr Obradovic, for money laundering, and for Malta and for the Netherlands, so we will see what these European police and prosecutors say, and in what a wonderful society, what a wonderful society that wants to deal with this again sits in power in Serbia, in order to get their hands on the chairs, so that they do little more, as they did in some previous period. They won't be able to do it because of the people of Serbia, who knows who's fighting for him, today it's absolutely Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47818	Prime Minister. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: You have no right to speak again. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47819	Thank you. I know that slowly, unfortunately, we have to bring the end, I will certainly try to make sure that the next last Thursday of the month the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in the National Assembly and answering questions. I just want to say one more thing and remind you of another Serbian citizen. I think it's important for all of this, because of the flood of this fake news, so-called. The verified information, you don't know from who and you don't know where, or who said, or where he heard it, but they've been checked out, and mostly the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia place that information as the complete truth, and they'll see the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that that's how it was. If I tried to answer all these 1,000 charges, you'd admit Kosovo, Tony Blair is negotiating. Please, it's on the cover of the weekly NIN, this time. Negotiating Tony Blair, Levandovski is negotiating, Pen Pudesta is negotiating, secret talks, agreements, secret contracts, who gave you authority. Here's another verified information, the Bosko Obradovic coalition partners, so let me remind the citizens, and the easiest thing to do is to prove whether we're lying, or whether they're lying by sending together the credibility of such information. So, on July 29th of this year, Vuk Jeremic, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, quote "I have information that on 4 November 2018, a referendum on Kosovo will be held, as well as extraordinary parliamentary elections in Serbia. “ Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is in exactly 10 days, so we will see how many verified information the gentlemen have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47820	Since it's 1900 hours now. We are finishing work in part of the session on Parliament's issues. I thank you all for your participation. I can give you my watch, it's not very expensive, but it's red and it's 19.00 hours, and we started at 4:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47821	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further, debate in detail. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament club, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, the MPs of SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dijana Vukomanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the DS Parliament Club submitted together to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and no statement on the correction of the amendment was made. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47822	We accept the amendment, the government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47823	Thank you. Having adopted the amendment, the amendment is considered to be an integral part of the bill. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 71 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure submitted a Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47824	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47825	Thank you. By accepting by the promoter, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the MPs' Club of Independent Members submitted together to the amendment of the 73rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 74th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the DS Parliament Club submitted together to Article 75 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic together submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 80 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic together submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and no statement on the correction of the amendment was made. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like an authorised representative of the Proposer to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47826	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47827	Thank you. He's been accepted by the motionor. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 84 of the amendment in the same text, MP Miladin Ševarlic, MP Dijana Vukomanovic, and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 84th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament club, Members of Parliament, together submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dijana Vukomanovic submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government has accepted the amendment in the basic text. The amendment's correction has not been stated. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like an authorised representative of the Proposer to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47828	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47829	Thank you. By accepting amendments by the proposings, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to Article 98 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 98th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) It shall be subject to Article 100 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47830	The government accepts that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47831	Thank you. By accepting this amendment by the promoter, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 105th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 106, the People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the amendment. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 108th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 110th Amendment were submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 110th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Law of Objects You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have also received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. By written amendment, MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic withdrew to Articles 1, 16, 22 and 25. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Articles 161(4) and 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected amendments submitted jointly by MPs Branislav Mihajlović, Ratko Jankov, Ana Stevanović, Branka Stamenković and Saša Radulović to Article 5(6) and Article 15 paragraph 7, Article 17 paragraph 5, Article 21 paragraph 3, Article 14, Article 15(4), Article 15, Article 16 and Article 17(4). Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by Parliamentarian Verica Radeta and MPs of the Parliament group of Members and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Ivković submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and the joint MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic, joint MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group, Parliamentarians and MPs of the SDS together, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Sreto Peric, the MPs of the Parliament group, the Members of the Parliament and the MPs of the SDS together, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group Independent MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47832	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47833	Thank you. By accepting the proposal, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament and joint MPs of the SDS, submitted together to the 6th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs Nikola Savic, joint MPs of the Parliament group Independent MPs and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, Members of Parliament together, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and the MPs of the SDS, together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group, the Members of Parliament and the MPs of the SDS together, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the Parliament group, Members of the Parliament, Members of the Parliament, together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment in the same text, Members of Parliament together, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and joint MPs of the SDS Group and joint MPs of the Assembly Group of Independent Members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group, the Members of Parliament and the MPs of the SDS group together, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, submitted MPs to the Parliament group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47834	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47835	Thank you. I find that, by accepting this amendment, the authorised representative of the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 12 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group, the MPs of the SDS group, together with the MPs of the MP group, submitted enough. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs together joined the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club, the MPs of the SDS group together, and the MPs of the MP group had enough. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of Ruzica Nikolic, together with the MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members, together with the MPs of the SDS group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs, Alexander Seselj, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Petar Jojic, together MPs of the Parliament group of Members and joint MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Sreto Peric, joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members and joint MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Party of Radet, together the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members and together the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, MPs of the Parliament group of Members of Parliament, joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group and joint MPs of the group of MPs, had enough. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the National Assembly of Natasa Jovanovic, joint MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members and joint MPs of the SDS group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment are joint MPs of the parliamentary group enough. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Parliament, Ruzica Nikolic, joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members, joint MPs of the SDS group, and joint MPs of the parliamentary group, have had enough. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Milorad Mircic, together MPs of the Parliament group of Members and joint MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, joint MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members and joint MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs, Alexander Seselj, together MPs of the Parliament group of Members and joint MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47836	We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47837	Thank you. By accepting amendments by the promoter, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the National Assembly Groups of Independent Members and the MPs of the SDS together submitted a joint effort. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Party of Radet, together the MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members and together the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members and the joint MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Club of Independent Members and together by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Air Traffic You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the board of directors, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by Members of the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade and together by MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs to Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs to the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenovic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marina Ristic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs to Natasa Jovanovic and the MPs to the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 23rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenovic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, Natasa Jovanovic's MPs and the joint MPs of the SDS group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Despotovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, Natasa Jovanovic's MPs and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenovic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Marina Ristic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Despotovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment, in the same text, the peoples were sent by Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completings of the Transport of Dangerous Slaves You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the committees responsible and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the People's Republic of Radet and together by MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Nikola Savic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Verica Radet, and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MP Marina Ristic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Petar Jojic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Miljan Damjanovic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Verica Radet, and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Despotovic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Mircic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Verica Radet, and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and joint MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Verica Radet, and the MPs of the SDS, submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment as incomplete. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on (Article 163(4)). Rules of Procedure) After we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Supplements to the Law on the Research of Accidents in Air, Railway and Water Traffic You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the committees responsible and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People’s Republic of Rade and Nikola Savic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47838	I thank the chairman, I will not take up your time by explaining the amendment. This is just one of the indicators that the opposition here makes up that we're writing some phantom amendments here. In a previous series of laws, we also had the opportunity to hear that the government had accepted an exceptional number of amendments submitted by counterpart Rakic, some of the amendments I submitted, even some amendments submitted by members of the opposition side. So, there are no phantom amendments, there's only a phantom opposition that comes at lunchtime or after lunch to take pictures here. He eats something about the cost of Serbian citizens and moves on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-25-0.u47839	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Travellers in DRUMS CODE You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the board of directors, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. 51/3MG/IC Parliament MPs of the SDS jointly submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Free MPs together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs' groups of MPs together submitted MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Free Members Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Free Members Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament of the Free Members together submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Free Members Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Free Members Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SDS MPs and the MPs of the Free Members group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Parliament group Free Members together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Marinkovic and Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Free Members of Parliament together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SDS and the MPs of the Free Members of Parliament together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to a debate in detail on the 8th item of the agenda – the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on statehood and the entry of PLATILE You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly carried out a principled search, according to Article 157. 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to search the bill, in particular. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are going to the debate in detail on the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on ASSESSMENT YOU have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the committee responsible, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Miljan Damjanović has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Friday, October 26th, 2018, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the second session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. We'd be done with today's work.
