ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48670	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall. Does anyone want to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? First came MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48671	Thank you, Madam President. My first question goes to the address of the President of the Republic's office, Mr. Alexander Vukic. I wonder where the false information came from that President Vukic will receive a high honor from Russian President Vladimir Putin? In fact, the news revolved in media that are very close to Alexander Vukic himself and the regime, and in the end it turned out badly for President Vukic and for Serbia. So, I wonder if this fake and counterfeit news is going to make anyone responsible? My second question goes to the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, and it says -- why the Public Prosecutor's Office has not responded and launched the investigation, based on the data from the "Today's" list, and on the demand in May of the Alliance for Serbia in the city's Assembly of Belgrade, and in September by Transparency "Serbia". According to the fact, 208.5 million dinars of one-time social assistance, the Belgrade Social Labour Centre has distributed to users. However, it is distributed by 15,000 to 13.900 people from Obrenovac, Barajevo, Vračar, Grocka, Sopot and Lazarec municipalities, while they are not users of the Services Centre for Social Work. Regardless of whether or not there is a criminal report, the prosecution is obliged to act on official duty precisely because of the abuse of the official position, and since we are approaching the EU, Chapter 23 has been opened, then this would be very important. The third question goes to the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Alexander Vulin, and it's about the introduction of the cavalry. Was Mr. Vulin introducing the cavalry into Serbia's Army, did he even consult and consult with the competent authority at the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense? I'm curious about how much resources and what resources should be allocated, and what is the purpose of bringing the cavalry into the 21st century? This is what I'm asking because I'm asking the next question – is it true that last week all operations, all of them on VMA, were canceled because there was no anaesthetics? Why is it there for Arab horses and there is no saving Serbian citizens? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48672	The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. I'm interested in what is the relations of Minister Stefanovic with Police Director General Vladimir Rebic? I was on the official road when this reconstruction of the organisation structure of the police was carried out and I am a supporter of those old divisions to the vaults, when the minister had the possibility of direct surveillance in all the organizations of the police, directly. And now he's in a situation where he can do anything through a police director. And it depends on what their relationship depends on whether the minister will be well informed of what's going on in his portfolio. After the police minister's appearance at this session, I would conclude that he has no contact at all with General Rebic, not to speak at all. Because the whole police, at all levels of leadership and command, know about the criminal activities of Rasim Ljajic. This came to the head of police, General Vladimir Rebic, and that's where he cares. For what? I guess because of his bad relations with Minister Stefanovic. With Minister Stefanovic uninformed, he could not notify Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister Brnabic could not notify the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. It's the only way I can explain their ignorance of certain things that have been happening for years, which, above all, is the new market public and how well it's been informed. We saw it now, although I had no intention and did not interfere in the elections for the Bosniak National Council, I simply do not care. Like any citizen of this country, I may have been a bit of a fan for someone, and for another I wasn't, and maybe I was indifferent. But in any case, one thing here is symptomatic of the political aspect, Rasim Ljajic is the Deputy Prime Minister and vice-president of the government, he has concluded a pre-election coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin to form the Bosnian National Council's governing bodies. Here, Rasim Ljajic has a Social Democratic Party that serves to maintain the assembly majority and for a little man from the budget, and there is a Sandzak Democratic Party. So, two political parties that are often on the loose. We see from the behaviour of his Belgrade party that they have a completely different position than Sulejman Ugljanin, and we see from the behaviour of his Sanjak Democratic Party that things about Rasim Ljajic stand completely different. And, another issue, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, how it is possible for the government to pass such a scandalous regulation that will legalise the illegal situation regarding the use of the president of the residence by former President Tomislav Nikolic. You know, that reminds me of the case of Cedomir Jovanovic when he was caught crossing in an unauthorized place across the street and when the journalists hit him, he first drew a zebra tomorrow and set up a light signalling, or traffic lights. It's a small matter of what happened to Tomislav Nikolic. The government caught in corruption, Tomislav Nikolic given something silent, something he had no right to, and then instead of Tomislav Nikolic moving out, it is obviously impossible to move him out except by force, they mutilate his condition. But it's not in the right sense of the word "legislative." This is one regulation that is essentially anti-constitutional. Here, in an anti-constitutional way, an individual is given incredible privileges. He'll probably live in that presidential mansion for the rest of his life. From what I've learned, I've never been to that villa, but it's the most beautiful fairy on Santa. Anna Brnabic would have to make an urgent statement, and I think that there are no other problems about individual ministries, the government should fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48674	Time. Thank you. Fatmir Hasani, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48675	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the Ministry of Justice and the National Assembly regarding the election of candidates who are first elected to the main court in Bujanovac for the first time. Following an ad of the High Council of the judiciary published in "St. Advocacy of RS No. 14/18 of 2018, the candidates reported were four graduates of Albanian national membership from Presevo and Bujanovac, who met all the conditions for selecting judges. The High Judicial Council as a competent authority has proposed to the National Assembly of candidates from the Serb nationalities of Vranj, and by damaging the Albanian minority, because the Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities have over 80% of Albanians, and in the 12-judge basic court, there are only three judges of Albanian nationality. Thus, the High Council of the judiciary did not take account of the constitutionally guaranteed rights of national minorities provided for in the Constitution and the laws of Serbia. We believe that this proposal directly comes under the provisions of the Constitution, such as Articles 14, 75, 76 and 77, which guarantee the protection of national minorities over representation in public functions and Articles 46. The Law on Judges and Article 4. Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise. This procedure does not provide for the national composition of the population and legal terminology in the language of the national minority. The Council of Europe, by Resolution 2015 on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in Serbia, adopted by the Committee of Ministers on 1 July 2015, recommended that the state take energy measures to consider insufficient representation of national minorities in the state administration. Such centralism discriminates against the Albanian community and prevents access to justice. So, on the basis of these facts, we demand that the National Assembly, as the highest authority of the Republic, reject the proposal of the Supreme Council of the Court of Justice for the Basic Court in Bujanovac and allow the choice of judges from the Albanian nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48676	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48677	Thank you, President. I ask my first question to Minister Branko Ruzic, because the elections for national councils passed on Sunday, so I am interested in why until today, and it is already Tuesday, RIK did not report in a single word that the previous elections have passed, and it was written. By law, they should give preliminary results by Monday. It's Tuesday. Why didn't RIK give preliminary elections to national councils to this day? The second thing I want to ask Minister Ruzic is that I made a request on October 22nd of this year, I called on the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on National Councils, and I filed a request allowing me to see the Russian national community's special electoral list. That was October 22nd. I sent that same letter to RIK, but until today, Minister Ruzic did not answer me why I can't, or when, or to look at that special polling list of the Russian national community. I wouldn't want her to answer if she hadn't seen it or if her secretary had hidden it or not given him that memo. Now it's all gone, because I wanted to see it until the national council election, I gave it October 22nd, on time. I gave it because the Law on National Councils in Article 82 provides for the Ministry and the authorities of local units of local self-government to allow authorised representatives, applicants for certified electoral lists to gain insight into the special electoral list. I don't want anyone getting away with it right now if I wasn't right to do it, or if it wasn't legal. So I'm asking the minister to tell me why he didn't give me access to a special polling list? Also, I ask the Ministry of Local Self-Government, why after four years, does it mean from 2014 to the day of today, to these elections, it has not updated the special voter lists? On Sunday, we had a lot of problems with the deceased's entries, the people who died a long time ago, got calls. Then people got calls, they saw on the site that they were listed in special ballots, they went to their polling stations, but there were no polling lists. I've got evidence for that. In those four years, I was really sending through the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and on various issues to the government, to update these special electoral lists, and even the Ministry kept saying that they had introduced some new update, a new system, but this new system didn't lead to anything. I say that many people were prevented from voting in the national council elections, because again the single voter list did not follow specifically and vice versa. So, they haven't changed their addresses, or their deceased faces, simply, who's going to answer for what some people have been prevented from voting for national councils? Also, I ask where the campaign was financed, as the state knows that it has not participated financially in the elections for national councils, it has not even allowed the lists to have extended compositions. So all those who handed over the lists could have an extended member in an extended composition, who they paid for themselves. I simply ask, why did the state leave all of this to national communities that had no money, to submit lists or candidates on the list, in order to finance observation at polling stations on election boards were only members of the SNS, because local administrations determined who would be in the polling stations, so that all of us who did not belong to that party, who we were bearers of the list, were simply prevented from following these elections. Now the state, the ministry of praise, and Minister Ruzic boasts that these elections for national councils have been democratic, and that so far this democracy has not been, which is simply not so. We simply cannot prove that democracy, and neither can he. Simply, observation was disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48678	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48679	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. I'd like to ask a few questions specifically to the Ministry of Ecology, as I come from a region where the environment is very beautiful, where there's a really great chance for development and tourism and everything else. My question concerns the specific city of Nis, since we know that in the previous period of 2010, then, the Ministry of Ecology identified 20 million dinars to solve the problem of waste, remains in the complex of the Electronic Industry in Nis. Otherwise, the electronics industry in Nis was formed in 1948. So, 70 years old by now. By 2000, the electronics had nearly 25,000 workers, but after 2000, bad things were happening, where it started to get lost, that workers were gone, that there was no work, but in the complex of the Electronic Industry in Nis, they remained bad, toxic chemical substances in any aggregate state, whether it was liquid, whether it was air, whether it was solidly aggregated, it was not all dislocated. In 2010, 20 million dinars were determined to dislocate it and to this day it was not done. I don't think that's really good, because for all the citizens who live in that area, these chemical substances can do harm and be bad for both the environment and for all those who live there and I think we should fix it as soon as possible. I'm really interested in why it wasn't done then, where are these means that are defined? By the way, County Chief Draga Spirovska reiterated on the initiative of certain citizens that the problem has been resolved, as we are witnesses, privatisation has been done as it has been done. There it remained unprotected, this chemical substance and this toxic material, and it would be good, if there is a possibility, that along with the head of the district with Drago Spirovski, who is really trying in every way to provide the best conditions for the life of all citizens in the territory of the Nisa district and Nis himself, to provide funds in the 2019 budget and to finally dislocate those toxic substances that harm the environment, as well as all people who live there. That's one question. I'd like to be answered what's going on with that money he got in 2010, was it used, where it was used, and why wasn't it done? Because these days in my area where I come from, there are big fires, a big problem, my question is the Hunting Union of Serbia, since we have a lot of our hunters active in protecting the environment, and finally now there is a choice in the Hunting Union of Serbia, I would like to congratulate the new leadership, Bratislava Cirkovic, as president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, and I would like to invite him to, along with his Hunting Union, participate with all of us in the ceasefire, in the protection of the environment, because it is important for all of us who live there in southeastern Serbia. Bratislav Cirkovic is from Nis and is now president of the hunting union of Serbia to work together with the previous president, working together to participate in the ceasefire, to help our teams who are on the ground and, together with the foresters, with the people who work in the woods, to work together, to save ourselves, which is said to be a real big problem when there is a fire, and now we have a big fire. Another question and support for Serbia's Hunting Union to get involved in all these things, to protect our environment and protect ourselves from fires and unwanted acts of fire and everything else. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48680	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48681	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you know that last week she marked the campaign, last week's complete, for the national councils of the national minorities and for the Bosniak national council, in which we saw that one party, represented as nationalist and pure Serbian, campaigned for, above all, Mr. Seselj, his twin brother in Sandzak, Mr. Zukorlic, and we saw how it went. Unfortunately, Mr. Seselj contributed to the main radicalization again in Sandzak. He contributed to strengthening nationalist parties again, and he is the main culprit, as he has always been for not only the spiritual fall of Serbia, but also for one fascision of society behind which one naked nationalism remains a fried country, mostly at the expense of the Serb people, and richly other minority peoples. (National Ambassador Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. Listen to something smart. I, first of all, want the police minister, mentioned here several times, to ask for an examination of the indications and reports of numerous electronic media that Mr. Seselj took 50,000 euros, so he also received 50,000 euros in response from the lobbying minister for one political option to favour Mr. Zukorlic. As my people say, as if the same mother had given birth to them. (Vojislav Seselj: When we are brothers of Serbs. It is very important to examine, for this is not the first time you have heard anything about Mr. Seselj. He here unfoundedly, with many lies, insults, acts on various other persons, including other ministers of the government, mostly to the Minister of Health, whom I have an extremely high opinion of. It's all motivated by taking money and, in practice, I'm sorry that the work of one party has come down to its leader taking huge sums of money and representing one political starlet and politically charging himself, and I'm really sorry that I knew a lot of radicals and I hope that today there are honorary radicals in that party, who don't support this, which is what the Radical Party is turning into, a person's personal front. It is an ordinary personal front of Mr. Seselj, who is used in the party's last beats for his personal wealth. He's aware he doesn't have any political future. However, what is most important and should be heard by Mr. Seselj, and you are concerned with the question, Ms. Majo Gojkovic, which is that I ask you explicitly to convene the Administrative Committee as soon as possible, because you know well that, under Article 88. The law on the election of MPs, in paragraph 3, is publicly and decadently said to be the person who has been convicted, and in this case it is a war criminal, to be punished for more than six months, absolutely and to be taken away from office and found. I am giving you a certain time limit of a few days to call on this, and then we will give all our forces, parliamentary democracy, personal ties, letters, and trust me that most minority parties in this country will also give us support, write to all relevant institutions and exert absolute pressure that one person who is convicted of crimes against humanity and for a longer period of ten years does not sit in this House. It's devastating and it's a message to minorities that they're not safe and it's extremely certain that what's... (Vojislav Seselj: Did you understand that? )......................................................................................................... His performances led to the Fascism and the rise of nationalism in this country. There is no parliament in Europe where a person convicted of war crimes sits. It's only Serbia. As far as SDP and SDPS are concerned, we have the same policies. We absolutely condemn the outflows of nationalism from anyone to come, attack the state and its president, and we have the same attitudes here and in Sandzak. We are a barrier and a barrier to Seselj and all those who have the heritage of nationalism and who want to restore this country to instability. So I have to repeat that we in Sandzak are in several cities in a coalition with the U.S.A., as we were for the benefit of the citizens and we want to calm the situation there, and we've been and we've been with everyone else, as we've been with the radicals both in New Pazar and in Prijepol. We've even had correct relationships that I can commend... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48682	Thank you. Time. (Muamer Bačevac: I repeat again, SDPS always has the same policy – anti-schelic, anti-Zukorlic, pro-state... (Veritre Radeta: Anti-state.) MPs, I would ask you to continue asking questions, with my duty... Okay, I'll wait for this pleasant chat to pass, and many charges have been made... (Vojislav Seselj: Don't worry, Maya. ) I'm not worried, but just to tell you, Your Honor, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not receiving ultimatums. You will expose the Ultimates to someone else, but you will not know that to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's not democratic manners, and we were on the same list as the MP. Ultimately, set someone else up. Next to the living president... Well, you don't have to listen, I guess you've said your recitation, so it's easier for you now, but I'd ask you to listen if you insult anyone. You insulted me and insulted the MPs and a good part of Serbia because you said that... (Muamer Bacevac: Are you speaking to me? Yeah, just you. No one else. ... That we're the society that got fascised. You've said terrible things, MP. (Muamer Bacevic: You didn't understand me very well.) No, I heard correctly, although you did not ask anyone a question, except that you threatened me and the entire congregation, including Serbia. (Muamer Bacevic: You misunderstood me. I know. There you go. When a quick excuse is made, there's a misunderstanding. So, besides the living chairman of the Administrative Board, I won't schedule any sessions, especially under the ultimatum, and it's up to you to use all of your connections that you said, as a party, to blackmail the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the state itself. (Muamer Bacevic: You misunderstood me. You don't need to defend Seselj. But I expected that when you were talking about Fascising, you would clearly fence yourself from yesterday's statements by your coalition partner, Suleiman Ugljanin. Of course you fence up and break up the coalition with him at the local level. (Muamer Bacevic: There's nothing to determine, it's the law of this country. And if you're giving me an ultimatum, here's my ultimatum. (Muamer Bacevac: I to you? ) Because I don't want anyone insulting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all in accordance with Article 107, because not one MP, whether or not it belongs to the ruling majority... (Muamer Bacevic: Stick to the law, don't change the subject, stick to the law. I'll go, but I'll say this with honor, because that's what real people do, to whom I belong. They're honorably defending this country. And to the minorities that I belong to, they honorably defend this country. Great, we heard from Sulaiman Ugljanin yesterday, and you did not condemn what he said. (Muamer Bacevic: We condemned the words of Suleiman Ugljanin. Yes, yes, yes, I see you're defending him. (Muamer Bacevic: It is not "yes, yes, yes", we have condemned it. But you didn't hear it from me... I see you're defending him. I see you're defending him. And you gave him an ultimatum like you gave the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the state. Thank you very much. I thank you very much, how that football player refused to wear a flower in the middle of Great Britain, footballer Matic, so I refuse to be blackmailed. I'll tell you right away. The word is from Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48684	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that my questions interrupt this idiocy in the power of the past and the future, but that's what happened. A few questions. The first question is asked by the Prime Minister and the Transport Minister, one and the other, regarding Constantin the Great's airport. A few months ago, that airport was hijacked from the city of Nis, by intervention of various structures of the current government, and during the abduction, it was promised that there would be major investments in this... Can you calm down, Maya, someone, is this the Assembly or is it still a pub, compared to how your MPs behave? (Vojislav Seselj: You're drunk again? [[off microphone]] ) (Zoran Zivkovic: I have listened to your debate... )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48685	It's not my debate, I'm protecting the dignity of this House and I'm tired of... (Zoran Zivkovic: Me? No, no, I am protecting the dignity of this House. I'm tired of reading the newspaper headlines where someone orchestratedly attacked this parliament and it happened yesterday and I'll talk about it later. But I'm not even here that the MPs inside, especially themselves, are destroying our congregation, which is obviously under attack somewhere on the outside, operated, that we are like this and like this, but we're not inn. We weren't and we won't be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48686	Therefore, in the abduction of the airport, the kidnappers promised, of course falsely, that it would benefit the airport, that there would be investments that would increase the technical equipment of the airport, that it would lead to a higher number of operators, i.e. the airline, being reported to fly from that airport and that this would naturally increase the number of passengers, which would also increase revenue, i.e. profits at that airport. In the last few months since the abduction was formally signed, several companies have either given up flights from the airport or reduced the number of flights to both the airport and the airport, and “Ryan er” and “Viz er” and many others, that some announcements of opening new lines and new flights have been cancelled and it is obvious, and this is also seen with a naked eye in Nis, that the airport is doomed and that the number of flights and the number of passengers is dramatically reduced, and hence the profit, which has led to no conditions for the existence of any buffets, cafes, cafes, or cafes, which is already at that airport, and it is closed because there are not enough passengers. My question is, how much has been invested in the airport since the date of the formally signed hijacking of that airport, which was the promise of the minister of traffic? It's about 180 million, I don't know what money it's in, whether it's in dinars or it's in dollars or it's in euros, because this government has a habit that when it wants to show something a lot bigger than what it really is, it's talking in dinars, so it's 180 million dinars, and when it wants to cover up something that's like a loss, it's not 180 million dinars, it's a million and a half euros. I hope it's an investment in some normal currency. The question is the same, what about the Belgrade airport, or the concession agreement with a French firm? There have been major announcements from the same minister and the entire choir from the government that the contract will be known to the public by the end of October, of which there is nothing, that the investment will be paid, or the price of the concession will be paid by the end of October, so it is not paid, if I remember correctly, there was a figure of 400m this time. What's going on with that? If we also have the fact that the same French firm is a concessionary and Pristina airport, are they, then, the issue for both the foreign minister and the interior minister, is it part of some conspiracy that is directed against the national and state interests of Serbia and its citizens? Some black triangle of Belgrade and Pristina airport, where some are being kidnapped. Some are sold for big money, but that money has never been paid, and it's obviously the overrun of passengers from one airport to another. The second issue is about "Telecom Serbia". We have witnessed news in the media that Telecom has taken credit these days and intends to buy some cable operators and some media, so the report and news that Copernicus, cable TV, says the second largest in Serbia, which is that the Serbian public knows it, owned by the president of a regional or some kind of district board, imagine which parties? Well, SNS, of course, for that end. That can hardly be the case. My question again is ministerial traffic, but also the Minister of Culture and Information, why is there a need for a pair of excellencies from a state-owned company, a public company, Telecom Serbia, to become a monopoly in the information work, whether it is cable channels, whether it is media? It's about buying some newspapers, some TVs and some other media entities. Why did it have to be credited and in what amount, and does this have to do with abuse of position and political interference in a sphere where it shouldn't happen, which is just to buy by an unprecedented large money cable operator owned by a man who's at the top of the ruling SNS party? Finally...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48687	Thank you. Here, I gave you those 10 seconds I took from you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48688	No, there was more. One more, just a short...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48689	It's not. Thank you very much. I like everything today, don't worry about anything. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48690	Thank you, President. First, and please answer me in writing, so you don't abuse this institute, as you usually do, you say you don't react to the ultimatums. I wonder if you're responding to what the law says. It's the only question I have for you. Now I would like to move on to another question, which was referred to by the Minister of Education, Mr. Sarčević. The question is whether he intends to take advantage of the right he has in accordance with Article 21(1) of point 3 and Article 22(2) of the Higher Education Act and to order the conduct of the external quality check procedure at the Ćupria School of Medicine, since there has been a change in the teaching staff from the moment of the accreditation of this school. In fact, at the time of this school’s accreditation, four teachers were employed in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation. Meanwhile, one of them has unfortunately passed away, three women who have done this job have lost their jobs and my question for Minister Sarcevic is whether he intends to order an external evaluation of the quality of this school to be carried out and to determine whether this school meets the conditions at this time to get accreditation for doing this job? This is important for a few reasons. First of all, it's important because we have to think about the quality of the class that students receive at school where we have a bad classroom, where we have a bad job organization, and where, apparently, we have four teachers less, whose names, among other things, were responsible for that school's even getting accreditation. The second reason why this is important is known to colleagues, at least three of the colleagues sitting here, are colleagues Orlic, Martinović and counterpart Darko Laketić, who, according to the record of the educational inspection, are the minutes on the regular inspection of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, number 614-02-840/218/12 carried out 31. Eight. In 2018, all in turn engaged in this higher education institution, contrary to the law. We do not say that from the Democratic Party, it does not say any portal, says the Republic Educational Inspection of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in its minutes, made up of 31. Eight. In 2018, it was conducted by inspectors Katarina Zugić Jovanovic and LJubinka Tomić Tornjanski. Nine women who were employed at this school were out of a job. At the same time that anti-legal MPs Aleksandar Martinovic, Vladimir Orlic, Darko Laketic, who is otherwise the best man of the school, and nine other officials of the Serbian Progressive Party, were hired in this school. If this is not a clear message to anyone in this country who is trying honestly and responsibly to do his job, that there is no room for him in Serbia, I do not know what is sending this message stronger. As the Anti-Corruption Agency registered, counterparts Martinovic and Orlic reported 11 salaries together. Nine women lost their salary, so the two of them could get another salary. Among these women are single mothers, women who have just returned from maternity, women who have already left this country, doctors of medical science, so that your MPs and your officials will be hired instead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48691	Thank you. I will answer the first question in writing, although we will cut off a tree to create a piece of paper on which to write – yes. But we will answer in writing. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48692	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are helping God to all. At the beginning, I would first of all wish for our colleague and vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Djorđa Milicevic, a quick recovery here at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, and to return to the sports and political field as soon as possible, to whom he has dedicated his entire life so far. I would also like to make public here my great respect for the celebrated Serbian football player Nemanja Matic, who refused to put on his uniform a sign that has to do with the NATO Pact and, of course, showed what true Serbian honor and dignity means. My first question goes to the Police Minister and the Minister for Environmental Protection and concerns yesterday's incidents that occurred in the village of Rakita in the municipality of Babusnica, while another attempt at the violent construction of mini-hydrocentres in this municipality, where locals came into conflict with private investor security, and we all remember very well that Minister Trivan here said that the mini-hydro-Hydroelectrics in Serbia are horrors. So, by how long will the Government of the Republic of Serbia allow this horror to continue to spread and when it will take seriously the people of the association "We defend the Rivers of the Old Mountain", who are really struggling to protect the environment and not allow these investors to destroy water streams, agricultural land and even villages of the Old Mountain, and here we see, and wider municipalities – Piroth, Babusnica and Knjižvec. The second question goes towards Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic -- is it the state of Serbia that proposed so-called. a fake, artificial and fictional state of Kosovo to be found at a Paris ceremony on November 11th and could the flag of Kosovo be found on Notre Dame without the permission of the Republic of Serbia? I deeply believe that behind this is actually a secret meeting that is about to take place between Alexander Vukic and Hasim Thaci, on November 11th in Paris, and what Serbian Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic refused to protest Kosovo's flag on Notre Dame, I think it is actually only proof that everything is agreed and that a great meeting is being prepared between Alexander Vukic and Hashim Thaci in Paris and that the state of Serbia is the one who pushed so-called. Kosovo to be found in Paris on 11 November. I ask the President of Serbia to give me a clear answer and answer – why he did not rebel against this phenomenon. The state of Kosovo in Paris, unless it's part of his deal with Hashim Thaci? A third question for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to provide absolutely all the necessary information on artificial, illegal elections in the municipalities of Kula, Kladovo and Doljevac. When did the presidents of the municipality resign? Are resignations verified at local parliament sessions? Has it expired for a month to elect the second president of the municipality? When you introduced the interim authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when you called new elections and did you break the law and practically shorten the mandate of the board members who have the right to the four-year term of office? So, have you abolished local self-government in Serbia and do you think you're calling the election any way you want and how it suits you? Of course, the real reason for calling these elections is my next question to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to distract the public from the election in the Luciani municipality, where the SNS is not the best, where you had to put the president of Serbia back on the list in the local elections. So, again, Alexander Vukic is a candidate for the head of the Luciani municipality. You also named the list "Because we love Luciane and Dragacheva", as if the Lucians were not in Dragacheva, as if it were another municipality and you were again dividing the municipality into the lower and upper Dragacheva. What is most interesting is my question – how is it that no SNS trustee, nor Slobodan Jolovic, the current head of Moraviga County, nor Aleksandar Pajovic, the current director of the House of Health in Čačka, is on the list of SNS? Are you ashamed of your main people in Dragachev who obviously have absolutely no support for the people, so you had to remove them from the electoral list? That is why in the first 20 candidates on this list you left 15 of Jolovic's people, which is causing the most horrifying people in Dragačev, who will no longer see or hear Slobodan Jolovic or destroy this municipality. Is it possible from 20 million dinars, which have been allocated to agriculture, not two million have been spent and that the raspberries and other farmers of Dragacheva cannot survive or sow a new agricultural season. And has the still valid criminal charges against Slobodan Jolovic been filed in 2012?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48693	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask a question? The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48694	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the MUP, in connection with the events in Vranje two days ago when media officials of Jeremic's People's Party physically and verbally attacked the president and members of the election committee in the national councils of national minorities. Namely, the chairman of the Committee of the People's Party in Vranja, a certain Djordje Ristic and their councilman, Dragan Pavlovic, are in the courtyard of the National University, where there was a seat of the polling station, without any excuse, and provoked the president and members of the election board by calling them gypsies and Bulgarians, "we will clean you up as Gilas cleaned up the gypsies in Belville", as if being a member of the national minority, as if it were a shame, as if something were bad in Serbia to be Roma or Bulgarian or a member of any other national minority. Afterwards, they physically attacked and beat the president of the Popovic Bozidara election board, who was injured by his hand, nose, and has been smitten by the face of a violent blow. This was announced by the City Administration of Vranja, signed by City Administration Chief Vranja, and transferred by more media, and I ask the MUP if they have conducted appropriate procedures to shed light on this event and whether criminal charges against these thugs have been filed. In particular, why were they there during the election? Why were they in the polls? What role did Jeremic's officials play in the elections for national councils of national minorities? What does Vuk Jeremic have to do with this election? What was he doing there? If we consider that this is not the first time, that from members of their Alliance for Serbia we are experiencing various physical attacks, then it is clear that violence, savagery and experience are the only policy the Alliance for Serbia has to offer. Remember the attack on journalists TV "Pink" Gordanu Zelelac and Maru Dragovic by members of the fake Patriotic Dvora movement, when they organised that protest. Remember the rampage of Bosko Obradovic in RIK, on election night, when a woman, a member of RIK, was also injured. Remember when MPs Dvori ferociously stormed into the office of Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. Remember the attack on Aleksandar Martinovic at the session of the National Assembly's Administrative Board. Remember when Sutanovac and Balsa Bozovic were physically harassed and attacked by citizens at the Djeram market, only because they had a different political opinion. A few weeks ago, Borislav Novakovic, who was the commander of Jeremic's party for Vojvodina's physical assault on police officers in Vrbas during the regular execution of their work. People were doing their job and attacked by Borislav Novakovic. Remember when Gilas insulted and physically attacked a citizen in Ralja just because that citizen dared to ask questions about malfeasance in a water and sewer tender. So the man asked a question and almost got physically beaten up by Dragan Gilas. It wasn't that long ago, it was 2011, there are many more examples and they all say the Alliance for Serbia leaders only know the language of violence. I can't imagine what it would look like if God didn't give us a chance to exercise power, what kind of situation would that all take. They'd probably hang us like these who call for hanging. My second question is addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and concerns the Mayor of Sapac, who is now in Strasbourg, where trees and stones will throw on his country and citizens. I want an answer to the question – who pays his trip to Strasbourg, accommodation, food and everything else, so his stay in Strasbourg? Is the cost of his trip paid by the citizens of Zapca, or is it paid from the budget of the city? If it turns out it is, his political and criminal responsibility must be sought because the city's budget is not his private property. It wasn't his father who left it for him to inherit or Dusan Petrovic to travel around the white world and complain about his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48695	Thank you. Before we continue to work, I expect the ministers to come with their associates, I only want to respond on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for yesterday's re-attack on the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which continues in one of the daily papers, because now it is no longer a false purchase of food, but has now gone to the expense of the MPs, because they have called us all together to be squires and to order alcohol in either of the quantities or some kind of luxury drinks, I wanted for the sake of the public and you who know that these are absolutely untrue allegations, someone is running a persistent hack against all of us, I don't know what the point is except for some daily pleasure that someone wrote something ugly on the expense of Parliament and on the expense of the committee. As early as January 4, 2012, the secretary general at the time made no decision, but an order prohibiting the serving of alcoholic beverages in restaurants and buffets of the National Assembly and prohibiting the introduction and holding of alcoholic beverages in this building. I'm sure no one's brought alcohol into this building since then. It is a shame what is done and how the reputation of all MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is systematically undermined. I will react, if I have to every day, to protect dignity and our work, because we represent the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as an important democratic institution of our country and our society. I expect the support of all of you, and I'm convinced I have it. Also, let me give you my regards from our vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I visited him at the hospital this morning and he's slowly recovering. Once a politician, always a politician, first thing he asked me when he took off his oxygen mask was, what's new in the assembly? We all wish him a successful recovery. I expect the ministers to come. I'm setting a five-minute break to see what's going on and to continue to work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Welcome to the Minister and his team. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Jovica Jevtic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48697	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment in the sense of adding item 3 which precisely defines the link between the proposed legal solution and the development of the Republic of Serbia. The main objectives that seek solutions in the draft disaster risk reduction law and emergency management are primarily in the overall normisation of preventive measures and activities in order to reduce the risk of disasters, rapid and effective response in the event of disasters, as well as to remove their consequences more effectively, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area as quickly as possible. When it comes to solutions that regulate the emergency response system, they are mainly based on existing solutions, by removing from them what has proved to be bad, dysfunctional and insufficiently effective. Experience gained in the previous period, primarily during the catastrophic floods in 2014, but also other minor intensity disasters that followed in the coming years, suggests that the current regulatory framework in the Republic of Serbia still shows certain limitations, that implementation remains slow. The proposed solutions aim to enable system entities to overcome obstacles to existing capacities and to develop measures to reduce the risk of disasters. It is important again to note that the proposed solutions are being upgraded to existing systems, since they are mainly based on existing solutions, by removing from them what has been shown in practice to be non-functional and insufficiently efficient, i.e. that the existing solutions are simplified, innovative, in order to be clearer and more applicable. The disaster risk reduction and emergency management system necessarily implies the engagement of a large number of entities and exceeds each of the identified resolutions of individual institutions. The positive effects of the bill are permeated through all spheres of society. Following the objectives of this draft law, the resilience of society will be improved, and a higher level of community readiness is to face and respond to these risks will repeatedly mitigate possible catastrophic consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48698	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48699	I thank the chairman. Respected Minister Stefanovic and his associates, respected Serbian citizens, the risk of disasters exists in every society, as disasters slow down the sustainable development of society in general. On their appearance in one region, it can cause damage in another region and vice versa. In the past, the state has not missed anything from disasters, floods, forest fires, earthquakes, as well as any other risks which unfortunately the state of Serbia is subject to. During the period of application of the Emergency Law, which was adopted in December 2009, followed by changes and additions in 2011, 2012 based on experience in current emergency situations, especially in the face of huge challenges during the devastating May floods in 2014, where 1.6 million people in 38 municipalities in western and central Serbia were at risk, where total flood damage amounted to 1.7 billion euros. One reason, i.e. the need to adopt a new law which would more precisely define certain provisions that would make them clearer and thus make their application more efficient and precise. This is an excellent law for me, and I, my fellow MPs in voting day, beg to support this law. Of course, if we have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48700	Thank you, colleague Tarbuk. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48701	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, the bill puts first the principles that should contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters. One of the newspapers is an emphasis on international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and humanitarian aid, i.e. receiving humanitarian aid in order to respond jointly to the consequences of natural disasters. I was particularly attracted to newspapers in law regarding not taking action, lack of timely response and the possibility of disbanding local headquarters. It was precisely in 2014, when the irresponsible city government, led by Dusan Petrovic, left the citizens of Capca at the mercy of the flood wave that was approaching the city, even though they were informed in time. Completely unprepared, without any sacks, shovels, sand and all that was necessary for defence, they sat in comfortable chairs in the city administration ignoring and laughing at the people gathered, and there were several thousand who came to defend their city as volunteers. Seeing the situation in Sapac, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, all that was necessary to defend Sapca arrived literally within the next few hours. We all know the epilogue, Sabac was defended thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's military, the interior ministry and thousands of volunteers from all over Serbia, who came to defend our city. After that, the greatest possible human cynicism comes into the scene, the same one that we had yesterday to listen to here even though it was four years later. People don't change. So, Dusan Petrovic, with his followers, carries news through Shabac that there was no danger of flooding either, as it was all a fictional farce, that Aleksandar Vukic pre-named the area and how, I suppose by hiding and with an unhidden cynicism, he was trying to conceal his incompetence, thereby jeopardising the lives of the citizens of Capca. It seems that the only thing Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic knew and knew is that they were buying votes in the elections and continuing to destroy the town of Sabac. To call for violent destruction of government, riots, persecution, hangings and rapes in Serbia, along with Djilas and Jeremic. I guess it's the Alliance for Serbia program. And, that, just today, Nebojsa Zelenovic, as instructed by her mentors, is preparing to attack, defamation and muddy her country in Strasbourg. And I guess that's the Alliance for Serbia program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48702	Thank you, my fellow Prince. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the peoples to the Parliament of the Prophets of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48703	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and suggested something really very useful and I think, Minister, that you should also, within these new circumstances, accept this amendment. I have proposed that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in law, should grant diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis on the date of entry into force of this law. What government officials gave you in response to the MPs is quite offensive. You explain here, or they explain to us that it is a matter of international agreement, etc. We know what the government's powers are, and we know that the government can do it, especially if we commit it by law, and on the other hand, you have diplomatic status for NATO soldiers who cruise Serbia in whatever way it has come to mind. As for this Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, I also spoke at a session when Zorana Mihajlovic was here, that this Law on Planning and Construction is actually a law that would endanger the existence of this centre in Nis, because under the law and the Law on Law-Law, the destruction of buildings around the airport is planned and it is actually a complete disabling of the functioning of the airport. Here, you saw, it started closing down that restaurant, but it's benign compared to what's being prepared. So you have in the government people who run anti-Serbian politics and that's a fact. We have to have a force of protection, there's no force but Russia, and we really have to show that we want the protection of the Russian Federation and we can't play it like this, a little bit like that. You've seen, in fact, you haven't seen, you haven't been here, Minister, how little it took for a national MP to take off his lamb skin and show himself in his true light. He threatened Maja Gojkovic with some ultimatum within a very short period of time unless he met his request that he would launch his friendly ties outside Serbia. It's a very serious threat. It is not only an insult to Maja Gojkovic and the National Assembly, but a serious threat. We are not satisfied, Minister, with your response when it comes to the 'Geto' action, which was in New Pazar in 2001. We didn't expect any of these actors to admit, say – yes, I called Rasim Ljajic to get me out of what I was caught with drugs in Pazar. Of course, you should have looked, and now you still have time to ask your colleague Bate Gasic for information, probably there's some information in the services you don't have in the ministry. You may also find this Central Commission report on the results of the 1991 vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48704	And this has to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48705	Yes, it has to do with our request that the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre obtain diplomatic status and explain how they will help us if we do so. It's very important. I want the minister to convince me. I don't care to convince him. So, in 1991, a report on the results of the vote in a referendum on the full political and territorial autonomy of Sandzak and with the intention of joining one of the sovereign republics, it says. The commission was five members, the first signed this report by Dr. Rasim Ljajic, so it says here, here's his signature. So we have to hang on a little bit, there's plenty of smoothness and fineness, we have to be completely open because we're here to protect the state of Serbia. Perhaps, Mr Stefanovic, if I find a copy of that 2003 obituary from Mr Gasic, when Rasim LJajic wrote to Ali Izetbegovic in "Politica" – the dear president the last greeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48706	That's where the charity centre will help safely. Here you go, Dr. Muamer Bacevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48707	By amendment, I'm authorized. Of course, I don't think that we should accept this amendment absolutely because it's notorious nonsense, we have our own country and we don't need any armies in its territory. We are in favour of neutrality at this time and of strengthening its police and military structures and other structures that should help the citizens themselves. Clearly, this is just an abuse. The previous speaker absolutely didn't speak, connected some unrelated things, of course, mostly false. I asked the minister earlier, and I asked him why these people are saying this, because we're sure that, as for most of the other ministers, they've been compensated. Many media outlets have announced that they took 50,000 euros to attack this one, and I believe that both for the attack of Mr Loncar and for Minister Mihajlovic and for many other people there are certain amounts of money. In any case, we are a state-run party, condemning every nationalism, condemning the statements you have recently heard in Novi Pazar where individuals have attacked the state, indeed inappropriately, unnecessarily and unnecessarily, and so we will judge the outflows of nationalism that come and on this side by Seselj's individual MPs who should be accounted for and reported, because we have information that Verica Radeta is not responding to phone calls from banks that owe serious sums of money, so she should take a little care of her integrity, and she is, you know, well known as someone who spreads hate, so, one inappropriate speech. We will really oppose our political divisions with these views, these truths that are at the expense of the Republic of Serbia at the moment, I mean a very absent moment when the state needs to show strength, integrity and especially the strength of its police and all other structures. Therefore, this amendment should be rejected absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48708	Thank you, Dr. Bacevac. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48709	In accordance with Article 107. Of course, I won't pay attention to these lies that the Bacevac just brought out. I do not allow it, or you should not allow the amendments of the MPs to be called stupidity, because it seems to me that we have reached an agreement when these here called amendments of the congregation's majority stupidity, that it has been interrupted every time, that it has not been allowed. The amendment is an absolutely legitimate thing. Bačevac says I didn't talk about the amendment, and he twice said the word "amendment", so much about what was contained in the amendment. And that's his right, we don't mind, of course. But you'd have to talk in the National Assembly to speak correctly. I'm not a pay phone. This is a pay phone. I'm a MP or a speaker, if that's what he's saying. And it's not "50,000 euros", it's the euro. Those 50,000 he invented, that's his business. The fundamental question is not even who took how many euros, because it's a lie, it's nobody. No one, or I don't owe the bank anything. Look, I'm hiding, like it's possible to hide from the bank. Yeah, I've got loans, I only live off my pay and I have loans, and he probably doesn't know what that means, but I don't have any debts. But that doesn't matter either. The important and essential question is whether Rasim Ljajic will be in a coalition in the national council with the group "Vakat je je", which is in coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin. If he does so, he absolutely supports Sulejman Ugljanin in what he called the state of Serbia fascist, etc. That's the essential question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48710	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You know I always call the MPs and appeal to treat each other politely. I didn't understand your question. Rasim LJajic, for your information, has not participated in any elections, except in local and parliamentary elections, when we regularly win these elections over the past ten years. Dr. Muamer Bacevic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48711	Position 106. (Miss Radeta: What member? · Global Voices ) Article 106. Gentlemen, I'm an intervention cardiologist, I'm not very well-versed, but I'm adventurous for the truth, so I'm going to tell you some things that have just been abused here. The Social Democratic Party, the party Rasim Ljajic, did not participate with its list in the national council elections, because if we participated, we would have won, gentlemen. In the last two weeks, we have supported a list of what we represent and what I have defended while I have defended the National Minorities Act, which is that there are certain competences and that professionals should take this bigger, to deal with language, culture, tradition, information, and we have practically supported the law to depolite only the national council. In that sense, we supported one list, the "Vakat is" list, and in the last two weeks, which won eight mandates and absolutely no authority over it. We are and our president has condemned Mr. Ugljanin's statements. We think that they are inappropriate, unacceptable and that co-operation with the Republic of Serbia, or its organs, is crucial to the development of Sandzak because we want advanced Serbia and advanced Sandzak. I don't know what's bothering you to put some lie in my mouth. Absolutely, ma'am, you keep trying to tell lies and lies. It's not correct and it's not fair. We are absolutely in favour of this country's progress, and I have made it clear that there are insinuations that your leader has taken huge sums of money, not only this time, but that the functioning of the SRS, which unfortunately once was a respectable party, with respected individuals that I respected, and today there are individuals. I must point out that in some of the cities in Sandzak we worked very well together, and in Prepolje we were in power with the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48712	Thank you, Doctor. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking the MPs not to continue here because the elections for the national councils of the national minorities are over. I think we should give the Minister and his team a chance and discuss these very important bill proposals and finish this debate on national councils, we can do some roundtables, it's nothing controversial, absolutely. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48713	Article 27(1) Well, if you want, we'll be done now. So, is it true that the party Rasim Ljajic has made a pre-election coalition with this party or the "Vakat je je" group with Sulejman Ugljanin? That's true. Is it true that Rasim Ljajic said - if this coalition doesn't beat the burning Novi Pazar? What did that mean? If someone doesn't know what "it's like", "it's like this" means - it's time. Well, here we ask why it's time. For some new revolution? For some new burning of the New Market, for some upheaval? What's the time when he threatens to burn the New Market if he doesn't win that coalition of his? And, don't talk to me anymore, take care of the Rules of Procedure, I don't talk to him, I hear and I don't hear, and I'm not saying that I would answer him, but because it's high time for the citizens of Serbia to realize that there's enough dirt, that we have to tell the truth about this Rasim Ljajic, who's 18 years old in the Republic of Serbia and in all governments and in all the authorities. So let him answer the question, will this coalition "this is" or is it time with Sulja Ugljanin and what does this time mean for Sulja Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic in the state of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48714	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You are back in your manner, although I have appealed to you and my colleague Bačevac, too, and moved on with some coalitions in Sandzak, Novi Pazar, although this is not the topic of the agenda today, I will have to really break it off. The only thing strange is that you are so interested in elections for the Bosniak national council and I am glad that you have great interest, that you have an attitude, but I am surprised that you have no interest in Slovakia's national council, Russian, Romanian, Croatian, that means one broader approach to the problem of national minorities. Dr. Butcher's breach of the Rules of Procedure? You gave up. Let's move on. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48715	The basic objection that we SRS MPs have on the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations is the fact that this bill does not provide for the granting of diplomatic status to staff of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. As you know, the Serbian-Russian friendship is unbreakable and dates back to ancient times, and just in Nis, during World War I, Russian doctors and merciful sisters on their dream mission were taking care of Serb wounded. As fighters and as humanitarianists, the Russians also engaged during the last war in the former SFRY area, and their aid in the rescue and management of flood victims was immeasurable in 2014. Even those who are not Russian-oriented cannot help but dispute the importance of the work and operation of this centre, since so far there has been no objection to their functioning and that the centre has significant material and technical means to achieve significant results. Despite all this, diplomatic status has lagged. The question arises whether because of the fact that the US ambassador has repeatedly presented absurd unfounded accusations that it is a spy centre, and his personal position that diplomatic status should not be granted. Is this our country making decisions based on the opinion of one Scott or on the interest of its own citizens? I'm sure our citizens wouldn't be at a loss if you gave diplomatic status to staff of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, but such a decision could only make a better one. Those MPs who are unable to distinguish the humanitarians from the soldiers who say that our military structures should be strengthened here, are the same ones who participated in the weakening of our military structures with all previous regimes, so I'd like to hear your answer which is why you gave up your diplomatic status assignment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48716	Thank you. The word is held by Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48717	It's important to me that the citizens know that this government has allocated funds and bought the building, so it was we who bought the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre building. So before us, this status was not resolved, this building was not owned by the state, since two years ago this building is owned by the Republic of Serbia and this ministry and the Serbian government has allocated money and resolved the status issue. Since the SNS is in power, I don't think it can be said that our co-operation with the Russian Federation is anything but excellent. This is, of course, witnessed not only by the number of meetings between President Vukic and President Putin and at the time when Aleksandar Vukic was prime minister but also by concrete agreements and the realisation of concrete agreements and military-technical co-operation, but also by emergency situations as they were absolutely impossible in some previous times. Of course, this question is one of the questions the two presidents were considering. They will make a decision because that's how the two of them agreed, they will make a decision on the matter. When they make that decision, then everything else will be resolved in that sense. Of course, this law cannot establish it as, let me say, a legal norm because it is something that regulates international public law and it is known that it must be a decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that the law of this kind is not, not only is it not in diplomatic practice to define that some status is assigned, because it cannot be conditioned by the Government of this kind of norm. Formal-legal can, or formally-legal in law, you can put anything, but this is the thing that's being solved, let me say, at the level of two states. When these two states make a final deal, everyone else will be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48718	Thank you, Minister. The Belief of Radet, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48719	As far as Serbia's relationship with the Russian Federation is concerned, the SRS has supported every type of co-operation so far and we advocate as close as possible to co-operation as possible. You know, and the whole of Serbia knows that we are against Serbia's entry into the EU, but we are in favour of co-operation with the Russian Federation, China and other friendly states that do not seek parts of the territory, which do not recognise the false state of Kosovo. We want this co-operation to deepen as much as possible, first of all, Minister Stefanovic, because of the fact that you in the government have some people who are scurrying with Scott and who are doing some work that harms Serbia and Russia's relations. This can be regulated by law and the National Assembly can oblige the Government to prescribe such a norm, of course. As for us from the SRS, I said and in the future you will have our support for every kind of cooperation, but have understanding, this is necessary to do. Believe that some in the government are working against this humanitarian Serb-Russian centre. That's why we want it to be fixed like this. As far as the issues of the Presidency are concerned, why do we not take an interest in the election of other national councils? Well, because only Sulejman Ugljanin, who coalitiond with Rasim Ljajic, said that the state of Serbia is fascist and that they would destroy it. That's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48720	Okay. Thank you. So you're denying your coalition with Zukorlic, pre-election. Thank you for that. Do you think you're smart again? ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48721	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have here a minister who answers everything, just doesn't answer those essential questions. Minister, you here in this bill suggest there is a plan of defense. With that defense plan, these defence plans can be made at the local, regional and republican level. These plans can only be made by authorized persons, persons who are licensed. The table you submitted in the proposal for this law shows that most, the absolute majority of municipalities did not deliver the plan, nor do they have the plan. How can we, in a very short time, provide so many licensed persons who will be able to make a plan for local, regional, let's not count republican? How? Will it be a hyper production of such faces? Hyper production brings something that's negative. Secondly, you here predict that there are so-called. coordinators. You can see that between the lines when it comes to defense management. Will you, according to newly acquired manners and these coordinators, provide villas on Dedinj, as you have provided Tomislav Nikolic with 800 square meters? Well, I guess these people deserve at least 400 to 500 square meters. Since you left, why do you care? You've begun to make regulations, bring in a regulation that the Emergency Management Coordinator, for example, has a villa on the province level on Dedinj. At least make it 500 square. It's a real shame what's going on in this country. It's given to a man who left the president's office because of his spite, for the sake of his family's request, a villa of 800 square feet is left to him. And here we will have people who will manage emergency situations, the question of how they will be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48722	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Roses, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48723	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The draft law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management regulates the subject of a law aimed at reducing the risk of disasters, prevention, strengthening resilience and preparedness to respond to the consequences of disasters, rescue, protection of people, etc. In order to achieve all of this, and to make the level of protection at a high level of natural disasters and to manage emergency situations that are of particular interest to the Republic of Serbia, which is part of the security system, we have suggested that in Article 1. The bill added Article 3 which reads - that the government of the Republic of Serbia will allocate within six days of the entry into force of this law diplomatic status for all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. We have repeatedly pointed out the importance of granting diplomatic status to members of this centre, as the centre is a significant aid for the Republic of Serbia, which has been facing major humanitarian and environmental problems for 19 years, in fact, since NATO bombing. I would remind you of another of the activities of this centre, which is to clean the country from NATO bombs and that it is to clean our territories from unexploded murderous means that it was funded by the Russian Federation and that this is only one in a series of activities of this centre that is very important to the Republic of Serbia. So I invite you, Minister, to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48724	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. In my first amendment, I was already talking about the fact that the most developed industrial countries in the EU are directly or indirectly the most responsible in terms of disasters. Serbia is a small country and globally, we have no influence in this respect. However, where we can influence the reduction of disasters, we do not. For five, six years in Nis, there has been a Russian humanitarian centre that has proved itself and proved itself in the prevention and prevention of disasters. However, the Russian humanitarian centre still does not get diplomatic status for its staff, making it largely difficult to function. This is simply incomprehensible, that the state of Serbia treats something that only benefits something that comes from a single and honest friend and ally. We know the reason why that is. It's about fear of the EU and the United States. Finally, the time has come to get rid of this fear and to turn to ourselves and our interests, so I guess you are finally aware that Serbia will never join the EU. Finally, I would ask Minister Stefanovic, when will the Russian humanitarian centre receive diplomatic status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48726	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Police when these arrests that have been announced for years will finally be made. I was encouraged by this morning's text in "Blic" where again the President of the Republic, I would say, not according to his legal and constitutional authority, he announces large-scale arrests in Serbia and that is always something published on the headlines. However, the problem is that this is happening periodically, and if you look at the news headlines from 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017, every few months, there is a violent attack against criminals, sometimes in their own ranks, so in the SNS ranks, and it is said that the corrupt presidents of the municipalities will be arrested, corrupt presidents, or directors of public enterprises, will be arrested. You know, it's loudly announced, but unfortunately it never happens. We also had that case when an even arrest of a murderer was announced in one individual case, it was said that it would be done within 48 hours, but even then according to those announcements, it did not occur. Now, I am interested in whether there is any coordination between the Ministry of Police and the President of the Republic, or the first Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister at the time, because in all these periods we have similar announcements, because in accordance with the relevant laws and laws on police, these operational findings cannot even be available by the minister. You know, IDP operatives don't even ask the minister if he's going to arrest someone, and even the minister shouldn't announce anyone's arrest, because in order for him to know, he's not in charge of the constitution and the relevant laws, and in particular he can't be responsible for something like that, because we're coming into a situation where someone says the system institutions don't function, but the arrests are announced, and arrests happen when someone says green light. In a state where institutions function, then I guess they can never make such announcements that they happen, but the police, in accordance with their operational work, in accordance with the law, arrest someone and make it known to the media. If necessary, a senior MUP official may later appear at a conference, including the minister himself or at the end of the year to praise the ministry's work results, but the announcement of operational media operations by any state official I think is totally scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48728	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48729	That's right. Here, in the last four years, you haven't known in advance for any arrest. No one knew. You couldn't guess any of the names. Here, let me ask you today do you know that someone has been announced, the name and last name of someone who will be arrested? Do you know a name? I'm telling you that you don't know because these investigations are being handled by the D.A.'s office and when the D.A. estimates that there's enough evidence that the police have collected, that it's enough quality evidence to file charges on them, then someone gets arrested, or if the judge orders that the person be held in custody, then that person is being held in custody. So you're a lawyer, you know how formal-legal it works, and it's really been working for a long time. So, anyway, these four years that I'm the Home Secretary, you couldn't hear from the M.O.P., nor from me to say, tomorrow, in the coming period, soon. What the papers were writing was missing so much that I used to find it funny to read. Here, a few weeks ago some newspapers said -- here, soon, in the coming weeks of arrest and, behold, no one was arrested. So they completely missed, and if it's the police, the prosecution's job to fight corruption and crime, absolutely is, and that's what the police and the D.A.'s gonna do all the time, every day, when there's evidence. Is that gonna be a week or two? No, there'll be someone arrested every day if there's legal conditions for that. We've arrested a lot of people in a lot of action this year for both corruption and for drugs and for weapons and for crime of various kinds and we'll keep doing it. It's a job of the police and the D.A.'s office. As far as the president is concerned, the president was talking about the frameworks. He spoke of fighting corruption and crime in the state, as we have fought since the moment we came to power and by fighting those whose names were generally not to be mentioned. We have fought these people in a serious, responsible, legally-based way and we will continue to do so. So, the president said he was giving support to all state authorities in the fight against corruption and crime and that anyone who wronged the law must answer for it. Are we going to find evidence for someone, whether the prosecution will assess enough evidence, whether the courts will determine the detention and whether these persons will eventually be convicted and to what extent, it is a criminal case and all of those entities working on it. So, no one could hear the announcement, no one knows a name, no one could know a name backwards, no one can say today, someone will be arrested in the next period and as it is called. There is no man who can do that. Yeah, he's got this guy. His name's the D.A. He's estimating.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48730	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Sarovic, on what grounds do you want the word? (Carovic: Replica. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48731	First of all, Mr. Marinkovic, two minutes and 53 seconds were spoken by the minister. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order not to report again, he can speak for two minutes at most. So don't allow these kinds of abuses. It's already in practice, but then you change this nakharadic Rules of Procedure, make it even worse, and add that the minister can do as much as he wants and whenever he wants. As far as the specific question is concerned, the minister, in part of his discussion, confirmed what I said, and then said it was not true. He's got to make up his mind. We listened to Alexander Vukic, here, once said at the session of the SNS main board announced - with a sharp saber and a broom we will clean everything up etc. It's no problem when newspapers write without foundation, but the problem is when the highest state officials announce it. The minister confirmed what's in the law, which is that someone, no one can know who's going to be arrested, but how does Alexander Vukic know that? Is it true that Aleksandar Vukic announced that within 48 hours, the murderer Jelena Krsmanovic will be arrested? It's a fact and it's a time of pre-election silence. Why didn't the ministry react and say - the president of the Republic or the Prime Minister speaks without any basis. I don't know exactly what he was in that period, or he was the first vice president, it doesn't matter. It is yours, Minister, to protect the institution from everyone, including the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly, anyone who violates the reputation of the institution by saying in public what it has no right or what it has no basis for, and you have just said that there is no basis. We've heard about no one in the state, so you as a minister of police should not mention the name of the Cosmic. I don't know his last name, Cosmack. Marked as one of the biggest drug dealers in the Balkans,
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48732	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48733	Here, until 2.53, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48734	Not at all. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. I only gave the minister to finish, but he wanted to elaborate on you, to give you one explanation, and he gave it to you. I think I was absolutely right. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48735	What I'm saying is it's very important that President Vukic never said that a person would be arrested. When he talked about principles, about fighting corruption and crime, and when he said the shooting would be with those who sinned from the SNS, so what's more natural than that? What's more natural than the president in the ranks of the party he's leading wanting this party to be completely clean, so that all those to whom the people have given their trust are those who will be freed from any burden of crime and corruption, that there are no ones in our ranks who can deal with these crimes? Is anyone going to be a suspect, and if he's going to be detained, I've already talked about it, that's what the prosecution and the courts decide on. It's up to the police to gather evidence if there's any evidence. As for everything else, the president has repeatedly expressed confidence that the police and the prosecution will be able to face some of the challenges that exist in our society and will address these cases as soon as possible. We used to be at the height of the mission, we weren't. We've never been able to solve anything as soon as possible. I'll tell you, everything's always been perfect, it's not. There are some crimes we haven't solved today, and that's a burden that stands both for the prosecution and the police. The job is to finish the job to end and those professionals in the prosecution who have been conducting investigations since October 2013 and that is their task and those in the police who are obliged to provide evidence, i.e. to assist the prosecution as an authority of the investigation to bring these processes to an end. The president supports the work of the anti-corruption authorities. I am grateful to him for this and with this great support and while he was head of the Security Service Coordination Bureau, while he was prime minister and now that the President of the Republic means to professionals to work in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48736	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48737	Mr Marinkovic, you have violated Article 104, you have violated Article 27 which obliges you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 speaks of the right to replication. First of all, the right to the replica was given to me to present the minister, which lasted two minutes and 53 seconds. (Nobojsa Stefanovic: Just take it easy.) ) If you can be calm, you and the minister can be calm. While I'm on the stand, you can't talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48738	We're perfectly calm. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48739	... And to interfere with the speaker. Minister, when he throws the People's MP, you're gonna have to take a heads-up. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. (Nobojsa Stefanovic: Put on your shirt next time.) ) So, when the minister becomes an MP, he will be able to discuss on an equal footing with the MPs. Until that moment, he is obliged with respect and respect that he speaks to all of us. There's no right for the minister to get a replica on the line. The replica on the replica does not exist and that is what you often point out, but there are parts of the session where the Rules of Procedure does not apply and it is obvious that whenever the minister wishes to get the word against the Rules of Procedure, then the Rules of Procedure gets hurt, and that has become a rule for you. As for the arrest announcement, I was talking about concrete facts. The arrest of Jelena Krsmanovic was announced and was said to be in 24 hours. It was done in pre-election silence. So, in concrete cases, an arrest has been announced, as it was said for the Cosmajca that not even the minister of police should mention his name in public, that he was the biggest criminal and drug dealer in the Balkans, and later he was accused of only of inciting a geometer to abuse of his official position, e, now, was that rightly the President of the Republic when he was talking about the biggest drug dealer and whether he was not accused of dealing drugs because of the fear that exists in the MUP and all the others who can't even mention his name...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48740	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Also, I know that you are a good lawyer and that you know the Rules of Procedure well and that you know that Article 104 does not speak about it and does not prevent MPs from having replicas among themselves and, of course, Article 116 here I would just like to remind you, in which it says that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply, so it applies to all other participants at the sitting. Right? Nemanja Sarovic: That's right. We all have the same rights, so I ask that we do not discriminate against the minister or anyone on this matter. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48741	Mr. Minister, in the last few years, because of the existence of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, the whole situation and the fact that you have not granted diplomatic status to Russian aid workers and specialists has led Nis to become a site of geopoliticalism, as diplomats say, the overthrow of the hands of the East and the West. Therefore, Serbia is again in crossfire between, on the one hand, the friendly and brotherly Russian Federation and on the other hand, the NATO Pact villains, who everywhere and in every place respect Serbia every activity and co-operation in any form with the Russian Federation. The question now arises – why does Serbia reject Russia's brotherly and friendly hand? Of course, not in the right sense of the word, because that centre exists and as much as Russia appreciates us and President Putin, it is enough that last year, a celebrated speciality from Russia, Viktor Guljevic, who was on Baykal, who is known everywhere in the world, as a man who, from impossible conditions, knows Mr. Maric, saves people and operations that only the Russians can perform in such a way. Mr Minister, the situation is really complicated here, and you, as minister, must explain to all the MPs that it is not the purpose of the centre today in the whole world, that such operations are done not only for the purpose of floods, fires, but also for possible terrorist threats, threats that can cause unrest in our society, and what more threat you will pose than the statement by Rasim Ljajic, will burn Novi Pazar if he does not win his and Suljina coalition and Ugljanin's statement, which is in coalition with you, Mr Marinkovic. I'm following you both yesterday and today, you're trying to wash off the Sulja -- we've got nothing to do with it. How can you not? You signed a coalition agreement. This Bačevac, who had just talked about what nonsense is personal on behalf of the list "For European Serbia", because you SNS gentlemen have introduced him to the list, said it is normal and will contribute to reconciliation. Is reconciliation, Mr. Minister, that Sulejman Ugljanin calls all Serbs in the Raška area, and says that they, I must quote, are terrifying: "fascist pawns, all Serbs working in the institutions of the Serbian state in the Raski area". So these are Predrag Terzic, the Mayor of Kralje and Ignat Raketić, the President of Raška Municipality and Nebojsa Simović, the head of the Raška Management District and Gradimir Nedeljković, a member of the Council in Novi Pazar and Tihomir Ratkovic from SNS, also a member of the Council in Novi Pazar, which Ugljanin, your coalition partner, yours and Rasim Ljajic, are ready to do anything at the moment of Russia and that they are basically Chetniks. The fact that they are basically Chetniks, if they are of every honor to them, and that you should finally, Mr. Minister, take over as police minister, so talk to Rebic, your director, all regarding your field of operational knowledge for all that we have been doing for days and for the role of Rasim Ljajic, headed by serious people with serious capital. Now this Mijatovic, Pera, Mika, I don't know who from their MP group is going to say, "What does that have to do with it?" So he didn't take any chickens anywhere? You know, we're not kids and we're not naive. Now it's Mrs. Obradovic, president of the board. I'm a deputy member, i.e. The Mandic boy. The Assembly Committee is getting very confidential information. We talked about the "Geto" action. You say, Mr. Minister, all those people who were processed, no one mentioned his name. In whose hands is it still, unfortunately, most of the work Mrs. Radeta, 80% of the prosecution and the judiciary, in the hands of the yellow ones who brought them and who kept and held him as water in his palm for so many years?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48742	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: You are in the coalition. ) I don't think it's correct to treat me like this, you know I can't answer you and you're taking advantage of the opportunity not to have my colleague, Veroljub Arsic, who can't replace me, and I don't have a chance. You have me. ) Don't use it, it's wrong or it's parliamentary. When I sit down in the bench, you can call me by my name and last name, and you'll get an adequate answer. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48743	You know, it's hard to argue with someone whose only truth is a lie. Just lies, affairs, and just like that party does and does. What's for sure, that's why they and the losers are going to lose all elections, as it was in Belgrade, as it was in 2014, just because their policy is based on lies and they won't take arguments. I thank Mr. Minister who was unequivocal, who said everything he needed to say and I'll tell you right now, you can't and you won't deconcentrate us. We will fight, prove that you are wrong, that you are doing bad for Serbia, and that is why you are cut out of political life. What we are doing and what we will do and why we support the coalition and why we are in a coalition with the SNS, because of the truth, because of Serbia's modern, European Serbia that we will safely enter, and you will not interfere with it, because you do not have that power. We, because of the results this coalition achieves, which is very disturbing to you, would like you to enter but no one will ever enter you again, because you have no quality to be in such a coalition that is fighting with the truth, which is fighting for Serbia. That's what I want to tell you. I don't mean much to you, because I'm aware of the fact that your patriotism is measured by the depth of your pockets you have. So buy houses, solve all your personal problems and leave Serbia to go to a modern European state, to a country where law and order will be respected. That's what I want to tell you, and we're not going to answer every single one of your things, because the only truth you have is a lie, and you base everything on lies, affairs, and so do you. That's what you need to know and we'll always tell you and we won't give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48744	Thank you, Professor Mijatovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Milorad Mijatovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48745	Article 27(1) I have to do a little bit when the chair is to take care of the Rules of Procedure and the application of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, you're complaining earlier that you can't answer from there because you say there's no Mr. Arsic to replace you. I'm one of the vice presidents, here I can replace you, and you're welcome to come here and defend this Ugljanin-LJajic coalition. I can sit upstairs, because these guys behind me can say the same thing I'm saying, so we don't have that problem. As for the commentary that we're done, I don't know where we end up, here we are in the middle of the hall, we hear more than everyone else together, we talk, we explain, we open affairs, than what. We're opening affairs because we don't want any affair to stay under the rug. Just remember, every affair we've opened has had its final outcome and finally solved. It'll be that way with this one, don't worry about it. You know, if you think of some political party as a dead end, then what do you care what some extreme political party thinks that no one, who no one listens to, who can talk like that, and no one takes seriously? I'm afraid everything's the opposite of that. Actually, I'm sure, but the gentleman who spoke earlier is aware of it, so then he's trying to explain to us how, for some weak rating, we're not going to be in the congregation anymore or what they're telling us. We'll never sell ourselves for power. We're a party of moral people, patriots, nationalists, people with pure cheeks and people with cheeks. We, here, throw a glove, go out to the polls ourselves, and we'll do it ourselves like we always do, so let's see where you are. You, who draw on the lists of the ruling coalition, the ruling party... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48746	Time. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, in the principle debate we heard about almost all the proposed laws that were summarised in one item of the agenda. At least it was heard in the debate on the first proposed law, which is the bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. This bill shows that the provinces, as well as local self-governments that they acquire, place and maintain sirens and other alarm system equipment. Then, I do not see that in this law in the provinces, cities and local self-government, through the adoption of its budgets, an item that explicitly highlights the means for this purpose is planned. So far, it has mostly been financed from the budget reserve by the removal of some damage caused by the emergency situation. Most often, these are floods, where even in such situations, funds are being misused or unintentioned. This bill, as I said at the outset, will burden municipalities and cities financially, and especially, as I always stress, small municipalities with a modest budget. Maybe they're also getting formally inappropriate equipment that will certainly cost less, I mean the alarming equipment, and they won't be able to achieve the desired effect. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the Republic of Serbia should build a single system for informing and alarming the population, as a single continent that will be connected and covered the entire territory, as organised states do. A solution like this would cost to purchase, build a system, because it would use typical equipment for the whole system. The system would be easier to maintain and easier to train a system management expert. With the existing proposal, each municipality would, in its own right, obtain equipment, which would be different and difficult to use as a single continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48748	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48749	It's just, about this part of the alarm. So since 2010, I have been able to see it in 2014 and other years, and through the Emergency Law, the obligation of local self-government is to provide and maintain an alarm system. It was logical to make such a decision because in some municipalities we have one, two or three sirens and it's easier for one municipality to maintain a siren and to grow old... After all, the seat of the municipality is there, these people are there, but that someone from the Republic is coming to check in each municipality centralisedly whether each siren works. After all, in whose best interest this siren is to be functional, the citizens of that municipality. We have also passed this law now, which is being passed, that is, proposed to be passed by the National Assembly, you have, in that law, when I speak of licences, in the present proposal that licences are actually issued to a legal person. That's why the defense plans have been brought by individuals so far. We even made it possible for the next two years, through the transitional and final provisions of this law, to be licensed for those natural persons, but we wanted legal persons to be the ones to make plans, because it was complex and complex matter and often those natural persons, those individuals couldn't do it well enough. That's why we wanted this system to be a thing that's going to be arranged like this. We have some kind of administrative surveillance through the Emergency Sector. We've been controlling whether those sirens are nagging. It doesn't go at the highest speed, but it does. So we have a situation that in some cities, municipalities didn't function at 30%, 40% of the sirens that were scheduled. We will try to do it the right way and, of course, because of the citizens of Serbia. Most of the municipality's transfer funds are received from the republican budget. It was never a problem to help, indeed, not in emergency situations, not at all, but through one good communication between the ministry and every municipality, I am convinced that we can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48750	Thank you, Minister. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48751	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and emergency management. We have proposed this amendment to be in Article 1. The bill adds Article 3 to read -- the government of the Republic of Serbia will grant diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, which will help reduce the risk of disasters and emergency management. The Serbian Radical Party is of the opinion that in the text of the law, in this first article, it is necessary to define precisely what we propose with the amendment, i.e. our political position has been translated into an amendment and we believe that it will also contribute to the adoption of a better quality law. As the amendment to the title of this law insisted that everything be in the jurisdiction and responsibilities of the state authorities, so we insist with this amendment that the Government create a legal framework for the granting of diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, by adopting the text of a law covering this matter. When we talk about the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, it is clear that it does not need to be particularly stressed because all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know well and we all here know that the Centre is of immense importance. We expected this amendment to be accepted, but it is amazing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had no understanding in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48752	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as emergency management is concerned, I must point out that we don't do much planically, we always cough for events instead of meeting them. I'll illustrate it with one example. When snow fell in Belgrade six, seven years ago in January of the month, I repeat -- in January of the month, the city's eyes were surprised, they said they were caught by snow. I don't just know when they were expecting him. We're not so poor we can't warn things. When there's an accident, we immediately find the means to remove far greater damage. An individual can be irresponsible to himself. If so, it is a matter of his choice, but the state is a much more complex organism, has its organs, services, instruments, concentrated intelligence, and has no right to improvise and ease solutions. We fight against the verse with bulldozers, buggers, bedbugs, shores, but during low water supply. There's a great vulnerability in this area. We've reduced the army, so there's no one to carry sandbags, civil protection is put somewhere, like a relic of general folk defense and social self-defense, and fire and water verse don't know these terms and they act according to the laws of physics, showing their miracles. The man and his country remain to fight by force, which is an organization, means, instruments and all possible mechanisms, in which the strength and seriousness of the state itself is expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48754	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Filip Stojanovic and MP Aleksandra Belačić submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Marash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48755	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the definition set out in Article 2 refers to the terms used in the law, whose meanings are not subsequently processed in the provisions of the law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) of the Law and it is said: “The disaster is a elemental disaster, a technical and technological accident or an unexpected event, which is the magnitude of the intensity that threatens the safety, life and health of a larger number of people, material and cultural goods or the environment in a larger scale, and whose existence or consequences cannot be prevented or removed by the regular functioning of the competent authorities and services. “ The amendment was rejected by the promoter, making it clear that the proposed legal provision is precise and that it does not appear to be celibate to change. The proposed solutions in the law are the upgrade of the existing system. The existing solutions removes everything that has proved in practice to be dysfunctional and inefficient, or existing solutions are simplified, in order to make it clearer and more applicable. Greater legal certainty and better efficiency are achieved. The bill highlights the role of units of local self-government, their participation in disaster prevention and timely response in the event of an emergency situation. The assessment of the risk of disasters and the plan to protect and rescue so far has made a small number of local self-governments, and more specifically in the law now defines the obligations of local self-government in emergency situations and disasters. A clear and unequivocal obligation to act on the orders of the competent staff to evacuate people, cattle and material goods is foreseen. These are all the consequences of the experience we had in the previous period. Starting with the necessity of each responsible society that, given that there are growing threats from natural disasters and disasters from day to day, it should increase its level of responsibility, and I welcome the proposed legislative solutions, and the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48756	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Srdjan Nogo submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nogo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48757	Elemental accidents, natural disasters and emergency situations. Here, we have just one of those actual ones going on right now. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're familiar with what's happening on the Old Mountain, or in the village of Rakita, where apparently some people in this country think that all natural resources and resources should belong to them, so one investor, Goran Belic, has found himself smart to take a river from both the citizens of Serbia and the local population. But that's not the worst thing that's going on right now. For two days, that is, 24 hours, yesterday and today, there is literally a state of siege, where private security, and we also have the Private Security Act, just as the subject of this agenda, the private security of the mentioned investor has usurped and occupied the private property of a local resident, has also a video, and threatens physically to break his head, called the ugly names of the local population. They usurped a man's property, took a river from the citizens, and unfortunately, the police do nothing to stop it. Why don't the police follow the law? Who in this country has the right to hijack rivers, rivers that belong to all of us? Who is this Goran Belic? It's not like there's someone powerful behind him, like Nikola Petrovic or Nenad Kovac, is there? So, Goran Belic took the right to harass both the locals and that his private security, which he took, could enter into someone else's property, threaten and apply physical force against the people who are there. I really don't know what kind of state we are? Please escort, please, what does the police in this area do, and why isn't that commander responding, why doesn't he provide public order and peace, why not protect the citizens? Does everyone in this country need to protect themselves now? What are those locals supposed to do? So they can take it themselves, arm themselves and finish the job with that security detail? Because we came to the Wild West and to the Hajducci? Imagine if someone came to me on such a property and threatened to break my head? I have every right to remove my weapon and shoot him. Don't let that happen and let it happen. If the police won't protect us, we'll have to defend our families and our lives and the natural resources of this country ourselves. I think it's an extremely problematic situation, and it's precisely because of this law that I urge you to go down there yourself, to see how things are standing there, and to prevent the will of some people who think that they have money and possibly some political combination that they can work in a protected area that shouldn't be done and that they can even physically harass people, that they're not allowed in Serbia. This is one big problem, an acute problem, and don't say you haven't been notified.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48758	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48759	Although it's not exactly in line with the agenda, but I'd like to give you a heads-up on this. I have been informed, of course, of this case, in the sense that there has been some debate and conflict between citizens and the private security involved, related to this case. What I can tell you is that the police acted, that we collected information about everything and informed the D.A.'s office, which gave the order to file appropriate reports, according to what the prosecution estimated to have been doing there, and against those from private security and against those on the other hand, from the ranks of people who were against them and who were protesting there. What I'm trying to say is that I'm going to insist that everything must be done in accordance with the law. Whoever it is, he has to respect the laws and permits, if he has them to work, if he doesn't have a license, he won't be able to work. That's one thing. Another thing, please don't call your performances to any kind of violence. This is a legally regulated state in which you will have to work in accordance with the law and, of course, anyone who is dissatisfied can inform both the prosecution and the police and go to court, seek the satisfaction of his right. It's not good for any of the citizens to take justice into their own hands. It's always wrong, it's always bad, it leads to any kind of violence, and violence is something we don't need. We want to build society on the principle of rule of law, and here you will see, in this particular case, people will have to do everything in accordance with the law. Sometimes people aren't satisfied with the decisions of the authorities that make certain decisions. I'm not happy with those decisions sometimes, but I have to respect them. So, in this particular case, he doesn't know, I can't say that I know the whole situation, I just know about the incident, because it's part of the ministry's work, but I'll try to find out and the citizens know they'll have full respect for their rights. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48760	You may by amendment, you have no right to replicate. (Srdian Nogo: just 30 seconds.) () Nevertheless, according to the amendment. You have no right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48761	First, I'd like to thank you for your reply to the Minister. It's okay if the police did it from their point of view like that, but on the other hand, I know it's not the police's problem. Some other competent institutions have scheduled other ministries here. Also, the big problem that I have been pointing to and pointing to since I was a national MP is that there is no justice in Serbian courts. I know you're not in charge of this, but as someone who's vice-president of the government, you have to be aware, that no matter what you do at the police's point of view, and the police are acting on the prosecution's orders, it's not disputed, some other institutions in the state are not functioning, and that's a problem that can eventually escalate, that we literally lose all ends in this country, because so much injustice won't be able to endure. That's all I wanted to point to. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48762	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Boyich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will proceed to my previous discussion of the law, more specifically the legislative proposal. Basically, the law refers to disasters, natural disasters, technical and technological accidents, emergency situations and accidents. Everything else is the modality of these phenomena. As this bill is designed to reduce risk and manage emergency situations, I must point to the large role of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis and the efforts of the SRS to form the same in our northern province, in Novi Sad. But it seems more important to you that a Scott arranges for you in the state, that he arranges for you to be a national MP, to give lectures in the Serbian government, than to attend some political stands of some alliances, I just don't know what. As far as emergency situations are concerned, there is no improvement in this area unless a security culture is built, unless the factors of all risks are closely monitored, unless the co-operation of competent institutions is imported and intensified at all levels of government. More important is the spirit of vigilance than the threat plans in the iron registers, when the mountain stream takes the bridge to the river or when it blues the same area for years. I have to point out another phenomenon, and experience tells us that wherever the powers of multiple organs, institutions or ministries are intertwined, there's always a thaw of every action, and in the law we're working on, we see that speed is a key factor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48764	National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48765	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the amendment to Section 2 of point 3 and 4 of point 2, something I wanted to change here, and of course what I wanted will remain my wish. I think that was better, but let me get to the story where we say-- reducing the risk of disaster. Yesterday, I was telling you about a disaster that happened in the city of Kings, earthquakes and floods, and then a distinguished colleague from the King, a member of the SNS, was talking about a disaster, and there we're going to share the opinion that happened after the earthquake in the King when the office burned down, where all the material that was talking about what was done during the recovery period was caused by the earthquake. And, then, I said yesterday, I was saying that the government in the city of the King functioned after the earthquake when the mayor was arrested, when everything was transferred that was wrong or not wrong, but we can't know that, because the office burned down, to an ex-government colored yellow. But what was interesting about it now? When it happened, and you were the ministers then in power, then in the King's earthquake the minister was Milan Markovic, then a member of the DS. In 2013, the government of the SNS, the minister we say were corrupt elements in the resolution of the earthquake in the Kingdom, has appointed the SNS as director of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal in October. Then it seems to me that the government would start, and for some reason, vague to me, stop. Why is it so done then? Now the minister is currently, after a lecture call, at specialist studies at the Faculty of Security. So, was it his fault? Is that when the exes did something or didn't do something? I'm interested in it as a citizen of the city of the Kings. I wonder what was in that office that burned down? I'm interested in whether any of the help that I said yesterday was used by the state of Serbia for its own purposes and cleared my city? I have no answers to these questions, and it is indicative that the then minister, who was in charge of it, changed, gave up the past of yellow in 2013, during your authority appointed to the position he was appointed. Did that mean anything to him? It was also a white ship affair, 500 000 euros a ship, etc. These things, ministers, cast serious doubt on every well-intentioned citizen of the city of the Kings, what is done, why is it done, and why we remain unspoken in something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48766	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48767	The state didn't stay unspeakable. A criminal investigation has been conducted against the then city government and the mayor for whom they existed, i.e. there are grounds for doubting that he has misused the aid he has received from the state. One part of these, in the subsequent proceedings, were rejected, but one group of criminals, to say, allegedly, one group of indications has been translated into criminal charges and this criminal procedure continues today. I'm sorry, of course, that he's not even finished today after all these years. In 2016, it was the first hearing before the court. I hope, I can't influence the court, I don't know how long they'll need it, but I hope that this one, too, will get a court epilogue without prejudicing of course what and how. I have an opinion on that. We'll see what the court will say based on the evidence collected. It is evident that corruption in the King's trades was involved. That's what the citizens themselves reported. That's, let me say, and then, after the change of government, a lot of evidence was collected. One piece of evidence was destroyed. Of course, what to do in this procedure was not possible to prevent this in 2010 or 2011. But I am convinced that the citizens of the Kings will get justice, that they will get a court epilogue of someone who has abused money right at the moment when it was most necessary for the citizens of the Kings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48768	Thank you. Comrade Nogo, you have 30 seconds to change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48769	Here, let me get involved in a debate over the city of kings. Can we then agree, Minister, on the basis of what we have literally had in the last two amendments, and that this is what I have been saying since I am a MP, that the key to the problem in Serbia is the judiciary. Justice doesn't do its job, doesn't do it the legal way, doesn't do it the quality way. That's the key. What about the former minister, you didn't answer, which wasn't covered by that criminal procedure and which isn't about the judiciary? But to go back, the judiciary is the key to all problems, it doesn't work right. Answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48770	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48771	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, all the draft laws adopted by the National Assembly either are in line with EU recommendations or are in line with EU laws. I think the proposed Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management has had very little impact on the profession. What am I stressing? The fact is that some members have both shortcomings and are not quite clearly defined, and knowing that Mr. Maric, who is unfortunately not presently there, has allowed a professional in his job to allow individual members of this proposed law to have these shortcomings. It is also best to say about these shortcomings that the observations of the profession, such as the rescue operation is managed by an authorised elder of the competent service, which is considered a term that is not defined by the Police Act or by another legal act. In this proposal of the law, it should have been stated that by acting, protecting and saving the manager of a competent service or a person who has jurisdiction, whether in writing or verbally, to the arrival of a manager at the scene, where the fireman, the savior, the oldest in office, or if they have the same function, is managed by one who has a greater rank. If there is no such thing, it is not known by this bill who is authorised and responsible for making very important decisions in the actions of protection and rescue. Then, in one of the members of the proposed law, the following should stand when the headquarters cannot meet within the necessary time-limit and in emergency situations, e.g. In the event of earthquakes, dam shootings, explosions and the like, the evacuation decision should, in addition to the mayor, the president of the municipalities, also be made by the chief of police in urgent situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48772	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48773	We in the SRS want to improve these legal provisions, and we want to point out on some of the examples that were happening in Serbia's space how much it takes to carry out complete control and be prepared for any disasters, or, more specifically, that emergency management must be clearly specified by law, regardless of what some claims here that we from the SRS are a marginal, minor party, even some say we are fascist. But what do you do? A man no matter how much he does politics, he's always surprised. To call part of Serbia that they are fascists and that they are pro-fascist, it really takes courage. Knowledge doesn't need it. It needs real insolence. It surprises even those who stood at the door of the SRS in 2004 to get into the SRS, because we were at the level of the local government ruling party, but, well, that's always the way it is in life. In particular, the SRS proposal when it comes to this international co-operation concerns the establishment of best co-operation with the Russian Federation. There is also that practical part, you remember a few years ago, though, was not Interior Minister Stefanovic, but was Ivica Dacic, when the fires were around the Kings. The Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre was then equipped with fire extinguishers, so-called fire extinguishers. Canaders. By order of the US administration, the Canadians were returned because they believed that these canadists could also serve for transport, God forbid, living forces that could occupy Kosovo's and Metohija's premises. We have a cave airport, a military airport that isn't operational now. It is ideal for international co-operation at the Balkan level. It is an ideal place not only for Serbia, but also for the wider area, for the region, to be able to act quickly from there, and when a centre similar to that in Nis was established and to solve many problems that can always be shown and which can, unfortunately, always be present not only in Serbia, but also in our environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48774	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48775	The amendment to Article 2 is actually our principled relationship with this member that appears in every law based on this unique methodology, but we don't think it really needs the meaning of the term, it's simply not a legal norm and lawyers apply the law and they know what it means. We always put the same amendments on this article, because it's in every draft law, Article 2 and we always put the same amendments. I have specifically suggested erasing this point 7) from Article 2 paragraph 1 which speaks of emergency situations, i.e. to explain the emergency situation. But when you were already in the explanation of these terms, I would say that this term "an emergency" did not explain in detail and detail. This should, for God's sake, take half a page to explain what's going on and what's going on. Generally, since the announcement of an emergency situation somehow exists and perhaps even the fear of the citizens, whatever happens, people don't like to be declared an emergency, because it always points to something very dangerous. Indeed, unfortunately, there have been situations where in the part of the state we had to declare emergency situations, but there have also been some events where an emergency has been declared throughout the country. It was in 2003, when Zoran Djindjic was killed and when it was really terrible to live in the state of Serbia, when the MPs passed the assembly hall next to those trained police officers, some special forces, their eyes were only visible, when the assembly sessions were kept out of the public eye, when people were arrested, that's how they came to mind. Indeed, that must have left some sense of even an emergency. It would also be good to remind ourselves, it is often mentioned here that 12,000 people who were arrested in the “Sabbe” action during the 2003 state of emergency. We never found out, it would be good for the authorities to tell us, as tens of thousands of these people received judicial compensation because they were arrested without a legal basis, and later it turned out to be what cost the state of Serbia and who was particularly responsible. We often listen here to this Zoran Zivkovic and these various, I don't know who he belongs to now, but at the time they all belonged to this democratic yellow party, they often talk such praises about the time when they were in power, but, God, they should also be reminded of these different things. Minister, when it comes to emergency situations, it would be good, sometimes I don't think you have enough communication with the other ministers in the government. No emergency situation can be viewed as narrowly ministerial, I mean a narrow resolution. We had Minister Goran Trivan here, I think before you he was, and we talked about the various environmental disasters that are happening in Serbia, about various criminal, rich, shops and in this area, and it goes to such an extent that in some places it would be good to declare an emergency, because people are poisoning, and the competent ministry is not responding properly. Here, just so you see in the government that a little, of course, everyone deals with their own resources, but I suppose as a government you act and uniquely, to discuss the problems that are happening in Serbia. In the context of this point 7 of Article 2, I would like to draw your attention to such matters as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48776	Thank you. The second amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48777	Mr. Minister, the Emergency Centre and the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis is really a place where we should focus all the questions related to this point and to the subject of this law. For what? Well, due to the fact that in the future, unfortunately, because of climate change and all the challenges that the entire planet will have ahead of us, possible and terrorist activities and everything that can endanger the lives and health of people in Serbia, and in our environment, this centre is the only one trained in the right way, to act highly professionally in such situations. If so, it shows the fact of the people who are experts in this area, because these enemies from the NATO Pact, whose center is a thorn in the eye, have as a pandan of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis some Euro-Atlantic emergency response centre. Well, you know, they are really in relation to the Russians and to us funny about that and that in every way they try and blackmail and pressure you and the whole government of Serbia, it's clear from all the messages that come from this Scott, the American ambassador who is popular here among individual colleagues, to look now at this Rasim side, who clearly and unequivocally say, as well as the high representative of the US administration who was visiting Serbia Brian Hoyt Ji, that it's not normal for Russian humanitarians to be granted diplomatic status. That's not the question now, you say will solve Vukic and Putin amongst themselves, that's one question for Serbia's future, the geostrategic issue for Serbia as a vessel cook in the Balkans, for the question of the survival of KIM, because their phobia is those villains from the NATO Pact, exactly that Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, because they say, here's a politician called "Politicals" a year ago to ask this Scott to ask him – so KIM is close and they have no idea how many of their NATO forces and how many Americans of their troops are going to go on? It bothers them, Mr Stefanovic, and while we here with some formal text of the law, we are conditionally deluded, those on the other hand are preventing us from doing the only right thing, and the pressures they are constantly exerting through their EU vase, blackmailing you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, that you should not do what is only right, and in the future we would be very helpful to our people with much more equipment, with a much larger number of top specialists, and that is to define which side you are going to define yourself, the last hour, is the last moment for co-operation in every sense of military, security, political, with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48778	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48779	Respected representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs, the analysis of the effects of the proposed law in one place says: the practice so far has shown that in the event of an emergency situation where a greater number of persons or assets of citizens are intruding in the sense that this is an obligation of the state and local authorities, i.e. not to recognise their role, are the system. I haven't seen why citizens don't recognize their role in the system. What system? In a system of crime, corruption, robbery, in a system where stock reserves have been robbed, atomic shelters robbed, in a system where you have a situation where citizens can't end up in this agricultural season because the price of raspberries is too low and the price of fuel is too high. Just how do you think that in a system like this, citizens have confidence in government and state and what government? Is it in the power of the SPS that's been ruling for 30 years? Is he in the military minister who was once in JUL, and now he's in your power? So, which is a system of citizens to trust, after so many pre-election lies, after so many frauds, after so many changed party leaders, ideology. From the SRS to the SNS, the road is quite far from Mr Stefanovic, but you crossed him. From someone who once opposed Serbia's entry into the EU to today's largest Eurofanatics to go to the EU at all costs and is even ready to recognise Kosovo's independence for the EU to take it into its own wing. What exactly is the real risk of disaster? Is it a disaster to sell the PKK? It's a disaster. Is it a disaster selling RTB Bora? Is it a disaster to sell both Belgrade and the airport? Is the emergency situation coming to power? It is the biggest emergency situation in Serbia in decades. Whether this law is considering resolving and managing this biggest disaster called the arrival of SNS to power six years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48780	Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48781	What is astounding when you talk about it, what were the emergency situations when you and your coalition partners beat those raspberries. You know, when you beat 'em up, you beat 'em up, when you bullied people, you knocked over their vehicles, all with these people you're sharing these values with right now. I see you're fascinated by this word - Eurofanatism, but that's what you've mixed us with. You're Eurofanatics. You are today the biggest Eurofanatic in Serbia because you support people who have established a border on Jarinj and Brnjak, people who have established a border between Serbs and Serbs. People who allowed Serbs to come, that they had to burn the borders of Jarinj and Brnjak in 2011, and then beat them, harassed them, persecuted and arrested them, you and your coalition partners, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and everyone else. You are with those people with whom you share the values of beating up raspberries, Eurofanatism, fulfilling every order of Brussels and those who have established borders between Serbs and Serbs and those who have decided that KIM is no longer being discussed in the UN but in the EU. With these people today you visit Serbia, share their values, and you will actually serve as a mechanism for their coming to power. You should be the false offer to the electoral body to say -- yes, these are some people from the right, they have no connection with the EU, so that they take that part of the vote, and they become prime ministers. Well, you won't be the prime minister in that coalition. It is known who will lead the financial elements as they led at the time they were in power. At that time, they cheered and clothed and their companies had 18 billion dinar traffic during their rule. It's not moral if nothing else, and you're with these people now the closest partners, the closest one is the best. These are the people who brought "Big Brother" together on state television and at the expense of children in Pioneer Park. Is there anything more moral than that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48782	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48783	When we talk about kim with Bosko Obradic who can't get three votes there, it's completely pointless. I thought the least votes he got were where they know him best, in his hometown, but there's a place where he gets even less, and that's KIM. He found that he was talking about Alexander Vukic, the SNS, so people who have KIM support of 80%. What the patriarch of Serbian thinks, he heard, but it doesn't matter, is that Bosko Obradovic absolutely doesn't know what he's saying when he mentions KIM, when he mentions Europe. Here, since he doesn't agree with Europe, here's how he's against it. This is Mr. Zelenovic sitting with Bosko Obradovic every night. Every evening with him and Gilas, along with the skirts of each other, and Zelenovic today, as agreed with Bosko Obradovic, co-ordinator of the Gilas Union, according to an agreement with Jeremic, on the day we speak and Bosko Obradovic mentions Europe, they sent this Zelenovic to the Council of Europe to discuss the worst of the Republic of Serbia there. That's how he disgusts Europe. Europe is disgusted only when it goes ahead of that Europe, sends its Zelenovic to say the worst possible things, to slander and muddy Serbia. That's how he disgusts something from Europe, that's how he hesitates, and that's how he's got something against that kind of Europe. What did he send him to say? Here, Zelenovic says, a man boasts, goes there himself claims Zelenovic to say that Serbia is a country like Turkey and like Moldova where political opponents are killed. The worst, most disgusting lies to tell at the expense of his own country are the work of Bosko Obradovic, who wants to talk about ideology, I just don't know which, whether the ideologies of the DSS that financed him from Kolubara, whether the ideology of DS that financed him through the ministries. The DSS itself says – yes, we have funded Bosko Obradovic and us and DS. Dragan Gilas, who financed him in Belgrade in 2012. So all Bosko Obradovic talks – no, it's not a lie. Here, he now sat next to Dragan Gilas to pay for a good car to go along with their stands, to pay for a nice suit and to take a picture there, not to hide any more that Dragan Gilas gives him a nice allowance both personally and to this Zelenovic, unhappy and others of their tycoon coalition. Last sentence. If the ideology of the story should be returned to Ljotic, but let him know his level is one ordinary Marisav Petrovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48784	The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48785	Thank you, Chairman. The debate is good and serious and thank the police minister for participating in the dialogue in one appropriate way and giving his contribution. So, if someone in the former regime was involved in crime, corruption, robbery and theft, why haven't you arrested anyone in six years? Why hasn't any court proceedings been completed for six years of your authority? Why is there no one in Serbia's prisons today who has robbed Serbia in the past 30 years? Well, because he's sitting with you in government, Mr. Stefanovic. Sinisa Mali, who participated in all the robbery privatisations or perhaps Goran Vesic as deputy mayor or Belgrade's true mayor. You cannot arrest those who are now in the SNS and the government and run the city of Belgrade. That's the first thing. Another thing, reality show. If not good at this reality show, which you did not support the Minister of Culture Vladan Vukosavljevic when he wanted to limit it, tax it and put order into that area, you supported Željko Mitrovica and TV Pink and you are ready to perform tanks to defend TV Pink as the heart of your propaganda system, lies and propaganda. Why did you not support Vladan Vukosavljevic but instead stand in the protection of Zeljko Mitrovica? Why don't you shut down the real programs? Why don't you pay extra taxes? Why don't you send them out after 12 hours at night to watch each other? Why do you limit them in any other way if they're not good? Don't mind me, I had nothing to do with it. The first number of magazines in Serbia, which was published against reality shows, was Dvori Srpski magazine more than 10 years ago. What are you talking about to me? About Kosovo and Metohija? You want me to read to you the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 6 December 2012, signed by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, says point 2. – The government will implement an agreement on integrated management of administrative crossings as follows – the administrative crossings of Jarinja Merdara will be opened on 10 December, the administrative crossings of Brnjak and Končulj will be open by 31 December 2012. Whose government did this, sir?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48786	Thank you. Nebojsa Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48787	Your government introduced it, your government, Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, you introduced it. What did people burn in 2011? What did people burn in 2011? They burned what you set up? Well, you can't get away with it so easily, sit down with Vuk Jeremic, Gilas, Borko Stefanovic, who are the political fathers of that reality that was broadcast on state television about the cost of all citizens, who was in the area of the children's center "Pionirski grad", that's what was meant for our children. It wasn't built on private, on our own. I live in Belgrade, on our built, where our children were supposed to have space, there was built this reality that was supposed to serve to make Gilas money. And he earned it. They passed laws, so why hasn't anyone been arrested? Well, they made laws at the time so they could rob, get rich, and no one could hurt them. Your laws have been changed, but what you will, at that time, have some legal certainty, you must respect the laws that were in force. I'm actually saying, you're part of that coalition. You are the same today, with all the commitments both Borko and Dilas and Jeremic have for NATO and NATO pledges related to reality and efforts to eliminate the frequencies of those TVs that you do not like and beat up journalists. You're part of it. You're part of that coalition and one of its officials. You won't be in the highest peaks of power when that power comes if it ever comes. You will be at some other levels, but those who are now there, who are like pope masters who are basically managing the whole system, they will manage Serbia and re-draw all that money like they did. They have millions in account today and Vuk Jeremic and Gilas, millions of euros, not dinars. They're real millionaires who had everything in their hands, all the time their government was trying to get their hands on those armchairs again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48788	Thank you. Replica, Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the co-ordinator of Dragan Gilas for the National Assembly has now said for a little while that there are no legal judgments against the people of the former regime. However, he was denied by his personal prosecutor who is suing and complaining against the Serbian state today in Strasbourg, Nebojsa Zelenovic. He says, Nebojsa Zelenovic – there are only three judicial verdicts, everything else is completely unclear, incomplete without any results. So, as you can see, within the coalition itself, there are numerous indeterminations, numerous conflicts and ambiguities. The co-ordinator says -- there is no verdict, and the one that sues the state of Serbia in Strasbourg today, his coalition partner says -- there are only three. E, one of the three convictions is the verdict of Borislav Novakovic for the malfeasance and robbery of the town of Novi Sad while he was the director of the New Sad City Building Institute, and otherwise he was the same one, Borislav Novakovic, who physically attacked a police officer in Vrbas, when police were doing her job. Because Borislav Novakovic imagined that he should stand up to the official in performing official activities. As far as I'm concerned, that's what he voted from Thessaloniki. As for Dveri magazine, Bosko Obradovic launched the magazine "Dveri", but the first newspaper to announce that "Doveri" was the magazine "New Iskra" which was number 62 for the July period, September 2000. So, "The Courts of Serbian", Serbian citizens are informed by Ljoticovska "New Iskra" and now I understand what the co-ordinator's problem is. He's like a snake's foot trying to hide. What time? Time... When they don't know what they're gonna say, it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48790	No, it was so interesting to me that I forgot on time and it was my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48791	Well, you know what, this former regime that Dvori were against, of course, and the rest is interesting and interesting about what he created for the Serbian Progressive Party, and I don't remember you rebelling against it. When Miki Rakic was the head of the cabinet of Boris Tadic, his best friend, Aleksandra Vukic, did not rebel against Miki Rakic, and no one objected when the SNS, when the government then gave you terms on RTS, "The Impression of the Week", when she left the MPs here in the Assembly, when she financed you, when she allowed you to live and become what you became today. At the time, the Democratic Party, Boris Tadic, and the former regime were good because they created SNS. And anyone who's gone from that former regime to SNS, they're good, no matter what the former regime is. So that's how the SPS that went into your ranks is no longer the former regime, now it's a great SPS, just to serve you and the SPS is great. Also this Goran Vesic, Sinisa Mali, as soon as they ran to the other side, they were right away. And if they had stayed in the opposition and didn't want to be with you, then they'd be thieves, criminals, robbers, and no one's stopping you from prosecuted those thieves and criminals. So be fair as this photo shows Darko Glisic, president of the SNS Executive Board along with colleagues from the Ugljanin party, because you form a joint ruling coalition in Tutin. So, SNS, yes, you're together in power with Ugljanin who at the moment has certain separatist ambitions in the Rasca area. Did you leave the local government with Ugljanin? It doesn't occur to you! Have you fenced yourself from this embrace of yours with Suleiman Ugljanin, who is currently a leading separatist in Serbia, and not all for power. So, the advances are ready to sell everything for power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48792	Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48793	I don't want to talk about Mr. Rakic, he was a civil servant and he's no longer with us in this world, and I really wouldn't say a word about him. As for what you were talking about. Well, you're exactly with those who were the complete emulation of that regime. You are with those who represent the regime, who were the heads of those parties who brought all this to Serbia. Not some party members, not some petty officials, you were with those who decided on the fates that were ministers, mayors, presidents of these parties. You've been with people. Well, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, it was just a fight that would make more of them for independent Kosovo. Well, it was just a difference to see which one of them would shine around that day. So you're with these people in the coalition. You are not in a coalition with one of those parties there, you are with their bosses and Boris Tadic, who was then president of the party. In fact, you have the continuity of all the presidents of the Democratic Party, you've chosen to be in the company of everyone who decided not to miss someone by accident. All those who have decided on Kosovo in the UN to go out and be in the EU where we will probably go better than the UN, you have joined them in the coalition. You came in with those who were and others with a synonym of corruption. After all, it is said by Verica Baraic, who said then about corruption, the systemic corruption that spoke about media control, that there is no one aspolutically free media in Serbia. That's what she said about Dragan Gilas, his control over seconds, his wealth, his total steeliness over all the media. And as much as anyone was giving us, so I couldn't spend four years visiting one second on the STB that had very little ratings at the time. Not for one second. So much for who gave us anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48794	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48795	Here, I'll pick up where I left off after Mr. Coordinator doesn't know what to say, then he says time. My time has really been up since those two minutes, but I'll continue what I had to say, to say it to the end. So, the Serbian Dvori were advertised in the "New Spark" magazine in July-September 2000, issue 62 and now I understand Mr. Coordinator. He hides his Latvian political roots and his original ideological beliefs as a snake's feet, as it is difficult to explain that part of the electoral body that you are in coalition with Dragan Djilas, with Vuk Jeremic, with Borko Stefanovic, with Zoran Lutovac, with Dusan Petrovic. So that's really hard to explain. I understand all the trouble Mr. Coordinator has. Dragan Gilas pays him to co-ordinator the Alliance for Serbia in the National Assembly, and now he has to justify that money, but he's having a hard time doing it. Have you noticed, dear colleagues and dear citizens of Serbia, when Mr. Coordinator at the National Assembly Hall has none of the DS MPs, there are no MPs, Vuk Jeremic. He sits alone with his troika and there's no one alive, and then he threatens the SNS, you know, we're the other political force, we're the only ones who can beat you, we're honest, we're the right ones, we're the ones who lead us to the greatest political leaders, like Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, we're the ones who are going to give birth to Serbia, and we're the empty joke. There's no living soul anywhere. There's no one here. I understand, Dragan Gilas will immediately call him and ask him - wait for what I am paying you for, pay you to co-ordinate this powerful political organisation in the National Assembly called the Alliance for Serbia, which brings together both the DS and all the other parliamentary groups, and there are four of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48796	Thank you. Let's move on. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48797	Thank you. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. We have proposed that Article 2 paragraph 1 point 10 be deleted. Namely, Article 2. The bill refers to the meaning of the term. The proposer, among other things, says the definition in Article 2 refers to the terms used in the law, whose meanings are not subsequently defined by the provisions of the law. A total of 25 expressions, starting from the basic concept of disaster to the major accident. When defining definitions to the greatest extent, accepted international terminology has been used with appropriate adaptations to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and rules in the spirit of Serbian language. The terms and expressions of which are bindingly defined in another regulation, and for the purposes of proper application and understanding of the solutions contained in this law, their precise definition is necessary. The amendment we have tabled represents a legal-technical order of the Bills and the SRS Parliamentary Group is an opinion that the adoption of this amendment would result in a discharge of the text of the law, because the laws are applied by the lawyers, so they do not need the assistance of the interpreters. This would give us plenty of space to introduce in the text of the law, which will be adopted, very important provisions which are essential, and those provisions that would assign diplomatic status to all members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, the government of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48798	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48799	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the Parliament, in Article 2(1) after point 11, a new point 11a is added, which reads: "The warning is to inform the population of the present or emerging danger". This amendment shall complement Article 2. The bill, which defines terms and concepts used in this law. In fact, although Article 57 and Article 94 define this term more precisely and broaderly, I wanted this concept to be found in Article 2 where the set of all defined concepts of the bill is set out. The very notion of alarm refers to informing the population of the present or already emerging dangers in order to act urgently in order to protect life and health. The alert shall be carried out by means of a public alert system consisting of appropriate acoustic sources, i.e. sirens, transmission and reception devices, remote system management and specialised civil protection units for alarming. Citizens have the right to be informed of the risks, disasters, measures and activities taken, as well as the possible consequences of disasters and other information of importance for protection and rescue. Information and notifications shall be provided in an accessible and easily understandable form and format, including sign language and Bray's letter, taking into account particularly vulnerable groups. The proposal for this law proves how responsible this society, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is because, starting with the need for every responsible society to continuously work to improve its degree of resistance to threats and threats to disasters, which we are witnessing, not only on a global scale, but on an increasingly frequent basis, it is necessary to improve the existing system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Serbia. Considering that in the previous period we had some bad experience with disasters, and in particular floods in 2014, there was a need to build up a legal and institutional framework for disaster risk management, especially with regard to preventive activities in this area. That's exactly what the bill does. It puts first principles, planning documents and measures and activities that should contribute more successfully to the priorities of disasters, as well as the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of disaster if it occurs. What was particularly taken into account is that the accent was placed on the protection of vulnerable groups, gender equality, as well as establishing a partnership between the public and private sectors. The paper also presents international co-operation, both in the area of prevention, exchange of information, and in providing and receiving humanitarian assistance. The paper is that for the first time, a risk register is introduced as an interactive e-information database on all risks and dangers of natural and other disasters and disasters. This law establishes a national platform that will contribute to better prevention and protection against disasters, disasters and other dangers and better risk management and better monitoring in time in communications at different levels and information exchange. What is ultimately most important, and what is the aim of this bill is to protect what is most precious, which is human life and health, the environment and material goods. The goal is to reduce the risk of disaster and manage emergency situations as part of a single national security system in the Republic of Serbia. In one word, by adopting this law, we contribute to increasing the level of security of our citizens and therefore, in the day with a vote, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48800	The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatimir Stevic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48801	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, I have submitted the next amendment. Article 2 paragraph 1 after point 13, adds a new point 13a, which reads - the disaster risk register is an interactive electronic, geographical-information database on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, run by the Ministry in co-operation with the competent authorities of the state administration, other state authorities and public authorities. As an explanation, I stated - the amendment complements Article 2. The bill, which defines the terms and terms used in the law. Namely, the main objectives to which it tends, a solution to the draft law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management are primarily in the overall normisation of preventive measures and activities in order to reduce the risk of disasters, effective response in the event of disasters, as well as more effective removal of their consequences, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work on the affected area as quickly as possible. The bill puts first principles, planning documents, measures and activities to contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters, strengthening the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of natural and other disasters and raising the level of preparedness to react in the event of a natural and other accident. When it comes to solutions that regulate the reaction system, they are mainly based on existing solutions, by removing from them what has proved to be dysfunctional and insufficiently effective in practice. In general, these solutions are simplified and innovative, in order to make it clearer and more applicable, given that this system is in the process of upgrade than the adoption of laws in emergency situations, and that certain results have been achieved. Also, during the period of application of emergency laws and experience-based emergency situations, there was a need for the adoption of a new law with a desire to more precisely define certain provisions that would make it clearer and thus make it more efficient and precise. The situation on the ground and everything that has been happening to us in recent years, and in particular the 2014 floods, also requires a continuous improvement of the system on disaster risk reduction and emergency management, of course using both practices and other countries. As is said, this legislative project builds on the existing law in order to achieve greater efficiency. It is also necessary to include more local self-government and a timely assessment of the risk of disaster, to reduce risk, protect people's lives and material damage reduced to a minimum. One of the key roles in implementing this law in order to be effective are citizens themselves, who should take an active role rather than act passively, inertly, as the practice has shown in certain situations. A significant change is that the adoption of this Law of the Assembly of the City Assembly assumes a commitment and an active role in reducing the risk of disasters, so that in some cases, because of ineffectiveness and untimely risk assessment, certain headquarters may be disbanded with the aim of overcoming the catastrophic situation that may arise or when people’s lives have not been taken into account. Finally, the key thing in this legislative project is prevention, money invested in protection or preventive action, can help to reduce the risk of disasters multiple times. In Voting Day, the Socialist Party will vote for the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48802	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48803	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the course of previous discussions, we have already pointed to some members of this bill, that they do not represent the right legally binding regulations and is one of those and point 14 of Article 1 of Article 1 whose erasure is required by this amendment. Our basic objection to this bill, and as we have already pointed out in the principle debate, is that, in the context of this proposal, there are too many general issues, which is unacceptable for one serious law. We would also point out another remark that we can say and that it is basic, which is that this bill is solely based on a government-led strategy, which is not binding and which is made for a certain period, and we suspect that many things will remain unfinished. We therefore believe that this bill should have been more precise and clear and we have proposed amendments to which we have offered better, more precise and more comprehensive solutions to improve this bill. In the end, Minister, I'd like to ask you if you have any new information, or any new knowledge about drug lord activities, Rasima Ljajic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48804	The People's MP, Daniel Stojadinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48805	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Maric with his associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of Article 1 where a new point of 14a is added after point 14a – evacuation is a planned organised movement of people, animals and material goods from threatened areas. This amendment shall complement Article 2. A bill defining terms and concepts used in the law. The amendment didn't go through, but I would take advantage of the opportunity, because last week I had a few questions in my opening statement, given that we are on the agenda and the draft law to volunteer fire companies, which is very positive. So a new force of 150 registered 300 fire companies, which we heard, will get vehicles from you and be ready to help, not only in accidents, fires, floods, but also in evacuation. My question concerns their funding, since they will have funding from the Republic, local self-government, gifts, donations and the part that is their own income. I guess it's going to be new regulations and it's still in the works, that this part is going to be defined that way, so I'd like to ask if you can explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48806	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48807	Since we have now given the opportunity for companies to provide training services, so the Republic of Serbia will have its own center on which we want to rely in Mladenov, which will be our key training centre for all those personnel involved in the fire rescue service within the state. Among other things, one of the key centers will be there. We also gave companies the opportunity to train and to charge for it, of course, who received the license to carry out these activities, so that they would apply to those funds. Those funds will also be able to be used for their, say, funding. What was important was, because so far we have had objections with DRI law when local self-government singled out funds from the budget for a particular activity that was not listed as a local self-government activity, then it was always a question of whether these funds were intended or not spent? Now we have made it possible for local self-government, autonomous province and the Republic to be financed by the activities of these societies. Of course, it will be important to make sure that it is dedicated indeed, that it is in line with the standard that predicts and the licences that we have defined by this law. In any case, that's the essence of what we've predicted through solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48808	The second amendment was submitted by Marina Ristic. Does he want a word? (No) Ambassador Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48809	Here's a chance to continue that extremely interesting debate with the minister and Mr. Minister since you said there was no one who could announce the arrest and that never happened, I'll remind you of one case. On June 20th 2014, Aleksandar Vukic announced the arrest of Dragoslav Kosmajc. But that's not all. He said it was the biggest drug dealer in Serbia, whom no one can even mention. Even more serious, there are people in the police who are seeing this Cosmic, who is God and beating, who are all afraid and all of you are silent about the people of the police and other services having contact with him. I've been looking for hits on the Cosmic, but it's not done until today. After that, there were some shifts at the top of the police and several months later, Dragoslav Kosmajac, as you say, was arrested, the biggest drug dealer in Serbia. But instead of charges of drug dealing, which you will admit to being incomparably more serious, he is charged only with encouraging the geodetic to abuse his official position. Now, as a citizen, as a People's MP, I don't think you can be concerned either, and neither can I and the question arises – why is that? Why after charges like this? Were these charges without any basis? How is it possible for you to claim to be the biggest drug dealer and in the end not to be charged and how do we, Mr. Minister, believe you today when the president of the SRS makes accusations about someone being one of the biggest drug dealers in Serbia, how can we trust you when you say you have no knowledge of it? That's the question. Do you understand? You see how things change. Someone's a drug dealer, so the court proves they're not. For someone there are certain knowledge, it's out there in public, and then you, as minister, deny it. Are you under someone's influence and under whose influence are these people from the top of the police talked about by Alexander Vukic and the top of the security services meeting and meeting with the Cosmajec? Have these people been processed? Do they still work at the M.O.P.? Do they still work in security? These are all extremely serious questions and please answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48810	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48811	First of all, it happened about thirty days after I became Minister of the Ministry of Interior. So, all that was going on in the police before that, all the evidence we filed, we filed criminal charges, we lectured in the jurisdictional prosecutions, so let the courts decide who was guilty and who wasn't guilty. What is the situation today is that there are no people at the top of the police today who cooperate with criminals, no one who protects anyone and no one who will protect them because of party, political, financial, social or any other belongings, but we will process those people, as well as those who have collected data to teach them to foreign services, as well as those who have collected data to give criminals. Anyone who has any contact that is not legal will be arrested, prosecuted, handed over to the prosecution and courts in accordance with the law. As for everyone else, there are a lot of them, the internal control sector has filed a lot of criminal charges. I can't tell you now what the status of these reports is, that is, how long the court disputes have arrived, because there is no single base that the MUP can get. So that's what the Justice Department does. As for all other cases, we can't base ourselves on statements, media speculation and all that. All of this can be checked, but when you've had proceedings, court proceedings, which have been closed, and these all court proceedings have been completed in a way that there's no doubt, evidence or anything out of the question, what can the MUP do after that? Nothing. The court proceedings ended, no one in these proceedings made any claim, not even insinuation, not even those people who were listed in the paper and only in the papers, nor the officers who were present were ever asked directly about these issues, denied that it had happened, asked these people, denied that it had happened, long before I became Home Secretary. So, all this is done in court proceedings, rightfully. After that, you no longer have any mechanism to determine anything. Bringing out these thesis thousands of times won't make them true anymore. He's just gonna make us have a debate forever.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48812	I'm setting a regular 60-minute break. We'll continue to work and discuss the amendments at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48813	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Palalych, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, during the debate on the amendment to Article 1, I have really pointed out the quality and importance of this completely new law, which regulates a systematic and comprehensive way of important area, based on all the negative experiences we have had in the previous period. Article 2 concerns defining the terms used in this law. The very fact that when we look at the number of expressions used here, when we look at the way they're defined, it's actually completely talking about the comprehensiveness of regulation of the issues concerned by this law. I'd just point to a few expressions that are key, in my opinion. If these issues are properly approached, the purpose of the law can be fully achieved, which is to reduce the risk of disasters and to manage emergency situations. I would point to a relationship with three concepts, three expressions – risk, risk assessment and prevention. It is simply very important that the Government in the coming period, institutions dealing with this issue, pay particular attention to the selection of personnel, the methodology of risk assessment, the staff with great and significant experience in the field of analysis and, of course, the systematicity in the approach of the work of all institutions. Because risk assessment and risk concerns a number of social areas and it is necessary that all of them be involved in the risk assessment and prevention of risks, i.e. Not only environmental protection, not just water supply, not just protection and assessment in relation to climate change, but all other institutions that touch the issues that regulate this law. I would especially point out the need to invest in the training of persons involved in the risk assessment. Depending on the quality of good and done analysis, it will depend on possible prevention and early detection of occurrences that may lead to disaster. Of course, all of this involves a certain investment. In this sense, the law has very well regulated this area, defined the clear competences of individual institutions and it is very important that it is one of the basic objectives of the law that he defined here identification and risk assessment. In this regard, I believe that the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior will in the most qualitative way address the link between risk issues, risk assessments and prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48815	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Micchin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48816	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, how much progress our country has made during the Serbian Progressive Party best shows a new forecast for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has increased Serbia's GDP growth forecast for 2018 by 1.3 percentage points and which is now 4.2% growth. According to the report, Serbia is the country that has most corrected growth in a positive way compared to other countries, compared to Central and Southeast European countries. As far as we've progressed, it shows the fact that a 3.5% growth is projected for the whole region and 4.2% for us. The report also states that the economy in the first half of 2018 registered a growth of as much as 4.9% on the annual level. I think it's important to make one comparison to the period of those who would rape and hang, from Serbia's rape and hanging alliance, because in 2009, for example, that same GDP growth was down by as much as 3.10%, 2010 was 0.6%, and in 2012, we ended up at minus 1%. You know, these numbers like this when we talk in these percentages are interesting, but it's much better to say in terms. So in 2009, Serbia's total GDP was 31.5 billion euros at the end of 2017, the same amount being 40 billion euros. So we produced more in Serbia during SNS for eight and a half billion euros. I think he's saying enough about how we do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48817	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48818	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we are already talking about the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, I wanted to mention the project of cross-border co-operation and co-operation of the municipality of Niška Banja with one municipality from Bulgaria, which is the municipality of Kostenec. The project concerns joint risk management in the region. The total project value is 583,732 euros. The project is funded by the IPA programme, with EU subsidies of more than 496 000 euros. Unfortunately, an emergency situation has already been introduced twice this year in the territory of the city municipality of Niška Banja, due to the spilling of rivers and cloudy water that was not allowed to drink. We also had situations where we needed to react so urgently that even if from Nis, which is very close, the teams arrived, valuable time would be lost. Through this project, the city municipality of Niška Banja received specialized equipment for crisis response, and this field vehicle, Amarok, on which was implemented a fire extinguishing system, personal equipment for five people to react in crisis situations, mud pumps, motor boats and trailers for them, a surveillance drone and complete video surveillance equipment that includes eight cameras and surveillance equipment even from the city's own district. In addition to this equipment, this project will make Niška Banja get a local fire protection action plan through EU funds, with ten trained people ready to respond in crisis situations. The main objective of this project is to establish a voluntary fire company in the territory of the municipality of Niška Banja, which will be able to react in cases of floods and fires on the territory of the city's municipality. Also, they will be able to step in to help the partner municipality of Kostenec in Bulgaria. The city municipality's strategy in combating crisis situations is certainly prevention, but also rapid and effective response. The main goal of the future voluntary fire company will be to get first onto the ground, if necessary with a specialised vehicle, to localise the fire, to prevent its further expansion until the fire department arrives or to first arrive on site and take the necessary measures to save people and material goods. These cameras are set up to monitor critical water and forest streams every day. Thanks to this project, the competent services will respond and protect people's lives in due time, material goods, but also natural goods in the territory of the municipality of Niška Banja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48819	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48820	Thank you. There's hardly a country that hasn't faced any natural disasters. Although the most developed countries have an efficient system of prevention and response in emergency situations, it is impossible to fully protect them from certain occurrences. What we can do is develop an emergency management system that we can certainly minimize material damage and preserve human lives. During this debate, we talked a lot about prevention. We talked about timely informing citizens about the formation of special services for early warning and alarming, but what I would like to draw as a newspaper and an important segment of this law is certainly international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and humanitarian assistance and provision, i.e. receiving international assistance in order to respond jointly to the consequences of elemental and other disasters. In April 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia signed an Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. How important this type of co-operation was we could see after the 2014 flood, which was partially remedied with the help of the EU, with the help of the UN and the World Bank. The Republic of Serbia is a beneficiary of EU IPA funds in the area of cross-border co-operation. A large number of these projects concern the management of emergency situations, which we realise together with Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, BiH and Montenegro. This is just some of the examples of how important international co-operation and assistance we have received and what we get to improve the system of emergency situations, but also what we have become, once we adopt this law, is part of an orderly system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48821	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48822	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is quite clear that for all those reasons, that is, from all those arguments that we have heard, both from you ministers and from the authorised representative of the SNS, that this law builds upon the existing system that has been defined by the Emergency Law. As it is clear that this law will remove everything that has proved to be insufficiently effective in practice, and what I would point out is that the possibility is given in the event of an untimely response to local headquarters, that the Republic Emergency Staff may disband and establish emergency emergency headquarters. So, I want special attention to the attitude of local self-government when it comes to this issue, because we are witnessing that there is a number of local self-governments in Serbia whose leadership is extremely irresponsible. Here, we can take, for example, Mayor Sapac, this Zelenovic, who is today in place of his job, instead of doing something for the benefit of the citizens of Sapac, he is in Strasbourg today. If you're interested in why he's in Strasbourg, he's gone to complain, he's gone to sue his country with some committee and went to all the worst to talk about his citizens and his country. This morning I asked a parliamentary question which I can and can repeat now, is a good opportunity, so of which money does he travel to Strasbourg? So, who takes the cost of his trip to Strasbourg, his stay there, his accommodations, his food and everything else? So, if it turns out that the citizens of Sapca bear the costs of his travel around the white world and whining at the expense of the state of Serbia and their citizens, I think it is for every moral condemnation, I think it is for immediate resignation, but I think it is, that there is a need for criminal liability in that sense, because the citizens of Sapca are not paying him to travel around the white world and to complain and to complain about his country, but to do something good for the citizens of Capca themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48823	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48824	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, during 2014, when a fundamental disaster with catastrophic consequences hit a large area of the Republic of Serbia that affected more than 10 municipalities and cities and when the damage was 1.7 billion euros and when more than 30 people were injured, the threat assessment and the protection plan did not have any municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. You brought a new methodology to Minister Stefanovic in 2017 for drawing up an assessment of the threat and plan and protection against rescue. By analysing this methodology, we see clearly that the number of units of local self-government, which have brought their risk assessment, is increasing, and that the trend will continue with far better quality, as new legal solutions will significantly raise that quality, because the assessment of the risks and the protection and rescue plans will be done by legal persons with the powers they have received, and so far they have done so by individuals with a license. Obviously, it takes an expert team to do that. This is another reason why I have submitted an amendment to this article, because it is necessary to work on strengthening the emergency sector, because it is necessary that the emergency sector is precisely to monitor the implementation of this methodology. I believe that, in the next period, this process, which even before the proposal of this law, with the adoption of a new law, will be rounded up in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48825	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48826	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in my presentation in principle, I pointed out the importance of the Ministry of Interior and the broad area that the ministry covers, because this is the basis for the country's overall progress and prosperity, because without peace, security and security, citizens cannot be talked about economic progress. When it comes to people's lives, it's all about the other plan. In my amendment, I would like to point out the importance of prevention, compliance with the services of the institutions and the speed of the necessary actions when a disaster occurs and all in order to reduce the consequences. Starting with the necessity of each responsible society to continuously work towards improving its degree of resilience to threats and threats of disasters, as well as the fact that threats from climate change in the last decade have been increasingly globally present, the MUP is very agreedly reviewing the needs and opportunities to improve the existing system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, before us MPs, there is also the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations. I'd like to highlight what's very important to the citizens of Mladen, where I come from. The city municipality of Mladenovac this year produced project technical documentation and works on infrastructure, which is important for protecting against floods on its territory. The funds allocated for the construction of a project documentation for a sewerage network in Karadjordjeva Street, amounting to 158,000 dinars, is highly critical of the city's larger rainfall, as it is the lowest point of the city. So far, we have listened to critics and demagogue from opposition colleagues, but concrete things that have been done in the environments from which my colleagues from the SNS come. For the end, I would say just this, the message of SNS reads – the gram of action is worth more than a ton of theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48827	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48828	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, the amendment I have submitted, is further defined by Article 2. It's a bill of law. I put the accent on the fact that as the ultimate result of the implementation of this law, it is precisely encouraging the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the protection from floods. Because, in order to ensure adequate defence against floods, it is necessary, apart from a good organisation of human resources, to have a renewed infrastructure that can withstand an elementary disaster to an optimal degree. As an example, I'm going to list Gorck City Hall where I live. In the past four years, the territory of the municipality of Gorac has been hit several times by elemental disasters. We suffered huge material damage in early and late May 2014, in August 2014, June 2016 and this year in June. Material damage caused by hundreds of millions of dinars, resulting from floods and glides. A huge number of housing and business facilities, agricultural goods, infrastructures have been destroyed. It is therefore essential that, apart from good organisation and planning activities in emergency situations, they determine and manage the second-row waterways. Grocka is situated next to our largest river of Danube, which, in the rainy seasons, affects the growth of water spilling and causing huge damage. The floods do so much damage that the most common question citizens ask - what am I supposed to live on now? The first flood and then the flood took place on 3 May 2014 in Begaljica. At that time, almost the entire territory of our municipality, as well as in much of our country, was affected by an accident. We also had our first victim, and a direct threat was to 1,500 inhabitants. Over the next year, we've been able to expand the channels of certain words, clean up and clean up the water streams. We have provided water supply wells and a temporary pipeline is set up in the rink area. We've fixed some of the Atharic roads. However, the Municipality of Grock is located in such an area that it is almost impossible to address all risk-representing problems with limited financial resources. We have done a financial support project that would permanently solve our problems with the Deep River and the Umchars and we have submitted to the Office for Public Investment Management, but we are still waiting, and we will solve the problems that are repeatedly repeated. Grocka is a municipality with the largest number of recorded rinks on the city's territory and over 40 of them. The slides are activated with any major rainfall, endangering the lives of citizens, causing huge damage to housing and business facilities, road infrastructure and agricultural land. Although there is really no shortage of aid from the City in the recovery of the damages suffered, I hope that the City Municipality of Grock will receive the necessary financial support to ensure and prevent the emergence of these problems, because we have made huge efforts to restore and build infrastructure and improve the quality of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48829	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48830	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Stefanovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which further defines the member mentioned and all in order to take a special look at the problem of solving the consequences of the floods. The existing Emergency Act has brought about good solutions, but with the new law we want to put prevention at the heart of our future activities. The current government, implementing the SNS programme, has indeed done a lot of work to address the accumulated problems that citizens have faced years ago, but is also making solutions where they will act preventively and to a greater extent prevent any emergency. The emergency response system defined by the 2009 roof law was faced with huge challenges during the devastating May floods. The solutions in this bill are mainly based on the existing ones, by removing from them what has in practice proved to be dysfunctional. The purpose of the new law is to change everything that wasn't good in the prevention segment, that is, our habits to prevent very little or no planning our activities when nothing happens in our community, in our house, in our backyard. This proposal for a law creates the necessary normative conditions, determines the competences of the authorities and bodies in the design of the risk assessment. The paper in the law is the adoption of a risk reduction plan, the recording of a direct cause zone, the establishment of a risk register run by the Emergency Sector, based on data from all ministries and local self-government units. All of this certainly represents a major step in the Republic of Serbia and will therefore vote on this and other proposed laws in the SNS vote day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48831	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48832	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, today's debate in particular, we are talking about a proposal for a risk management law, i.e. reducing the risk of disasters, as well as managing emergency situations. In fact, Article 2 in which I have submitted the amendment speaks precisely about the terms used in this law, and these terms are very significant because they adequately define certain natural disasters that are spoken of. The term "disaster" is defined in attitude 1. So, the disaster is an elemental accident, but it can also be a technical accident, and above all it means a particular situation if certain unwanted moments occur in the work of a particular factory or plant. What is very important, in the second attitude continues to define these terms. This is about an elementary accident, or accident that can be a meteorological, hydrological, geological or other origin, but it is essential that it endangers the life of a community living on an appropriate ground. It is precisely one of the terms that is of particular importance in this law, which is significant not only in rhetoric but also in essence is the reduction of the risk of disasters, i.e. the definition of all those measures that can be both social and economic and health and institutional, so all those measures which together cover the order of moves that are necessary in such situations to prevent victims, to reduce material damage or in any way mitigate the effect of an elemental accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48833	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Grubor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48834	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the main objectives of the proposal for a law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management are primarily in the overall normisation of preventive measures and activities to reduce the risk of disasters, effective response in the event of disasters, as well as more effective removal of their consequences, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area. The bill puts first principles, planning documents, measures and activities to contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters, strengthening the resilience of individuals and communities to the consequences of natural and other disasters and raising the level of preparedness to react in the event of accidents. The town of Loznica suffered enormous material damage in its territory during the period of the great flood disaster in 2014, as it is located on the Drina River coast, through which rivers Štir, Jadar, Trbušnica, Geravia and others flow. Local self-government of the town of Loznica has taken the necessary measures to reduce the risk of disaster and emergency management through the following measures and activities: the construction of the coastal fortification on the river Drina in order to protect wells of drinking water, the rehabilitation of the Valjevski put and the streets of Ive Lole Ribara in Banja Koviljača, the rehabilitation of the river Štira, the recovery of the depositary-consolidation barrier on the river Four in Paskovac, the regulation of second row water streams, the construction of project documentation for the rehabilitation of the slopes in Banja Koviljača and Loznica, the purchase of the siren, the purchase of the boat for rescue, the anti-urban rockets. The total value of the previously mentioned and done on the territory of the city of Loznica is 118,669,494 dinars. All of these measures aim to reduce the consequences of disasters and to preserve health, i.e. preventing the spread of infectious diseases in the event of accidents of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48835	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48836	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Second Article of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management, which I would like to point out to a special consideration of the problems related to the prevention of traffic accidents and the preservation and protection of infrastructure under these circumstances. Generally observed, the bill defines and highlights the large role of local self-government units and its full participation in disaster prevention and timely response in the event of emergency situations, and thus points out that it is also a major role of local self-government units and that a special accent is placed on the preservation of infrastructure, the protection of roads, bridges and railways and in such circumstances. Look, we're talking about passing one of these laws today, and we have colleagues who, on the other hand, are not expected to support both this bill and the others who are on the agenda, who are only there to ensure better conditions for the lives of our citizens, so that the level of protection is far higher, to be far higher. Today, when efforts are being made to preserve peace and stability in the first place, we do not expect support from them, but it is disastrous that such work and such efforts are today condemned, attacked and simply called for violence. While some are doing so, I will point out several facts about how the Ub municipality was reacting in 2014 that was affected by catastrophic floods and that the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, which passed the law and afterwards made it possible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with several regulations, to remove the consequences of such a disaster as quickly and better. In the municipality of Ub, these legal acts allow more than 1,100 family and housing facilities to have compensation for damages. After that, we had special regulations and legal aid for 70 of our entrepreneurs. In those fateful days and Prime Minister Mr. Alexander Vukic visited Ub Municipality and personally provided assistance and we are very grateful to him for that. Yesterday, I noted that the Ub municipality is now being prevented from working on the construction of the Gračica-Ub freight channel, but it was also preventative, the joint efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Public Investment Office, the construction of a supporting wall, or a protective wall on the Ub River. The value of the investment is 12 million dinars. This is an example of how responsible management conducts the SNS programme treats citizens and how conditions are created for safe living.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48837	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48838	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations in order to further define this member but also to put a special accent on the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. As Serbia faces the truly catastrophic consequences of the floods during 2014 and 2016, we must learn from these experiences and make sure that the situation of these floods never happens again. It is important to locate potential sources of danger, define risks, prescribe measures to protect ourselves in the best possible way in order to protect the lives of our citizens and value in terms of material values. This, of course, requires the introduction and perception of the practice of countries in the environment but also in the world that have successfully fought this problem, therefore, by adopting solutions that they apply in their environments, in order to raise protection from emergency situations to as high a level as possible. The aim is, of course, to remove the shortcomings observed in the existing law and to upgrade the Emergency Law. We must not allow as it happened during 2014 and 2016 that we do not have the proper equipment because it happened that the former defence minister sold out both right-wing rubber boats and aggregates and pumps which were and how they could be used in fighting the floods. With the creation of a national platform that signifies this law, the harmonisation of local self-government to be included in one organisation of a protection plan, with the strengthening of international co-operation in terms of the addition of humanitarian aid, in terms of prevention, I would also like to place a special accent on the importance of the resolutions of the consequences of elemental disasters in order to round up one continent and to control emergency situations and crisis situations in the best possible way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48839	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48840	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, until the sky falls to the land of floods will be the biggest natural disaster that can happen to us, so at least we thought until this other monster appeared, and it is colloktically called the Alliance for Serbia, and it is a flood of Serbia with a political mud of toxic content with a very unpleasant smell. It is sad when someone who is synonymly shutting down media freedoms organizes public information such as Dragan Gilas, when someone sues the media and prosecutes journalists, which is content. Gilas, who took away over a hundred small agencies, talented people who fought on the market, on an open market with his own intelligence, talent and knowledge, and such games have never been there since 2000. It was all in the function of putting under the control of the media area and all of it for the sake of personal political promotion and of course enormous wealth at the expense of Serbian citizens. Someone who, with Solak and Zelenovic today, is building both a media and political strategy, how to vomit Serbia into the world, how to portray this country as a space of darkness deserves every contempt. The illiteracy, intricacy and prosaclysm are the only allies of this poor coalition so that Leprechaun and Suljo are just the beginning of a flood of psychiatric cases within the coalition. When they do so, then you have MPs without legitimacy, then you have a party without members and then you have an opposition that runs away from the election as the devil from the cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48841	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48842	Please, let me go back to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48843	You're out of time. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48844	The consequence of this policy is the only resolution...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48845	National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm just asking my colleagues from the SNS, or I'll let you know that time is up, so I really can't break the Rules of Procedure and give you more time. The word is Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48846	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the recovery of floods. The aim of the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations in addition to the comprehensive formation of this area is also disaster prevention. The bill will have a positive effect on strengthening resilience, the consequences of disasters both for individuals and for the entire social community. The bill takes into account the experience gained in the current application of applicable laws in this area as well as the modern use of solutions in this area. An important aspect of the bill's proposal is to ensure effective response in the event of disasters and as effective as possible to remove the consequences or raise the level of preparedness to react in the event of an elemental and other accident. A special accent has been put on co-operation with all social structures, and this means co-operation between the private and public sectors as well as scientific organisations, civil society organisations, citizens' associations and their participation in all phases of the process, creating and implementing disaster risk reduction policies. The paper is also an emphasis on international co-operation, which is also foreseen in the context of prevention, humanitarian aid and a common response to the consequences of natural and other disasters. With all this in mind, I believe that the proposal for a law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management significantly contributes to the efficiency of flood and flood recovery but also affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48847	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48848	Thank you, chairman, distinguished guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to explain how the law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to flood prevention. Namely, the flood has threatened 18% of Serbia's territory in the large river valley, where almost all major cities and settlements in Serbia as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sabac, Pančevo, Smederevo, Čačak, Kraljevo, Kruševac, Paracin, Svilajnac, Zajecar, Negotin. Erosion processes as an important factor in the floods are present on 75% of Serbia's territory and 11.000 and 500 water streams are registered. The preliminary assessment of the risk of floods in 2012, means prior to the catastrophic floods in 2014 on the basis of historical flood data in the last 50 years, 99 significant flood areas have been identified in which floods can endanger the population, economic activities and the environment. It is important to know that much worse scenarios are possible and more difficult consequences than those of May 2014. The problem of high dams and accumulations is particularly indicated, some of which are located above Vranja, then Leskovci, Užica, Valjev and other settlements. These facilities, in addition, serve to defend against floods, but it is necessary to control and maintain in particular, which is unfortunately not the case in particular between 2008 and 2013. In Serbia, recent years because of lack of funds, the accumulation has not been maintained according to standards and regulations, and greater damage to them can lead to major scale disasters. Investments in recovery and recovery should be seen as part of risk reduction efforts, not just as sudden and unexpected costs. The infrastructure of different types and arbitrary activities should be less sensitive after the completion of the recovery and recovery. Directing aid to those most affected by floods would also contribute to reducing existing differences in development and would lead to a reduction in the number of marginalised people living below the poverty line. I mean the population, the women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48849	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48850	I thank the chairman. Honorable representatives of the government, honourable MPs, allow me to say a few words about this law from the aspect of defence and security. The defence of each country is usually based on civil defense and military. It is based on the training and organisation of the entire population, but Serbia has unfortunately stopped doing so for a longer period of time. And here, until now, she's left herself mostly to the case. We used to do that. We've been preparing a whole society for the most difficult situations, there's no reason to stop taking care of ourselves and our country. Every civilian needs to know what to do in the event of an elementary accident to protect himself, how to protect their family and how to help those who need help. Serbia's population must be organised and trained to respond to every challenge regardless of where and why it came from whether it is a natural disaster, an emergency situation or a natural disaster or something else. This bill that we are discussing today provides an excellent basis for establishing a system of protection for the whole of society in these situations, but in the future, we need our young citizens to train and train those who are without experience through schooling and train how to cope with emergency situations such as floods, earthquakes, fires, etc. It is a practice in many countries in Europe, so why not stay with us. Emergency situations everywhere in the world daily carry a lot of human lives, endanger and degrade the environment, cause great material damage and losses. The risk of disasters exists in every society, so the state is forced to organise an effective defence system that will be able to respond to all challenges, risks and threats of safety to the population, material and cultural goods. In all the conditions of risk, however they have arisen, emergency situations, disasters, emergency events, due to natural disasters, technical and technological accidents and terrorist acts, we must be prepared to remove their consequences as effectively as possible, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48851	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48852	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected citizens of Serbia, is a law on emergency situations that Serbia certainly needs and what we have done in the preparation of this law and through amendments, improvement, we will certainly respond to the needs of future and preventive actions to wait for the emergency situation as soon as possible. I come from a city that was really serious in 2014, but thanks primarily to the state, the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, at the time of the prime minister and, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, but also to the citizens of Sapac who stood in the protection of Šapco, we had a detached city, we had a situation that was overcome, and thanks to it, to the citizens of Sapac and Serbia, it went the way it went. As the problem in the town of Šapcu is that we still have power that is worse for the Shabbatz than the emergency situation. We haven't been able to solve them yet, and we expect them in the first next election, that we'll get rid of them safely. It is precisely this extraordinary situation that has been going on for 18 years, leaving a mark on the city itself and on the villages that belong to that city. At the moment, the mayor of the city, who embezzled fivem euros from the budget in 2015, who bought votes in the pre-election campaign, which calls for media rape, which calls for threats to the council, threats to the media, the media calls media murderers, will speak in Strasbourg and spit on its country, all considering that he and Dusan Petrovic and his associates are one serious emergency situation, which I repeat, in the first next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48853	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48854	The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, removing the consequences of multiple floods and twice-year-old waters that hit Smederjevska Palanka, I have seen the importance of these planned constructions, plans for defence, prevention, and unfortunately plans to remove the consequences. In Smederjevska Palanca, the honor of our predecessors, the water factory is located in the blue area, 110 kilovolt trafo is located in the blue area, several factories and it is very difficult to defend and very difficult to recover. We have these opportunities that often the difference between the government at the local and the level of the Republic, and I was in a situation where I had no help from the Republic, but in 2014, I was commander of the regional headquarters. In the municipality, the DS was in power. Do you know who came to help? Bratislava Gasic, Serbia's military minister. He removed the consequences with military units until it was all finished and disinfected and the water function was not fully established. That is why planning both defences and preventive activities is of great importance, as well as the planning of what comes eventually after the disaster and floods that can affect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48855	The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48856	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The laws proposed by the MUP will solve a large number of problems that have accumulated for years despite irresponsible and inadequate government behaviour by 2012. The area of emergency management was governed by the emergency law, which was adopted in December 2009, followed by changes and additions, which took place in 2011, 2012. The emergency response system, which is the main subject of the regulation, was faced with huge challenges during the devastating May floods in 2014. This was also the rainiest May moon in history. The multi-annual average for this time of year is about 71mm, but in 2014, as many as 214mm per metre per square metre fell, resulting in streams and river spills from the trough. Floods and slides damaged and destroyed about 4.5km of roads and 250 bridges. 2,260 objects have been submerged, and around 1,800 are at risk. Agriculture suffered significant damage, which is seen in about 80,000 hectares of flooded ores, which is about 2% of Serbia's total farmland. In order to prevent spillage, as well as resuscitation of rivers and canals and the creation of embankment in the territory of the city municipality of Lazarec, significant funds have been invested over the past four years. The Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade have also allocated significant funds to regulate the Kolubara River and its tributaries, thus providing protection to the citizens of Lazarec from floods and high-level security. In Election Day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48857	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48858	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, local self-government units play a primary role in managing the risk of disasters and play this role in close co-operation with state institutions. The municipality of Nova Varoš continuously invests in raising the level of health protection of citizens through the purchase of medical and laboratory equipment, by reconstructing and adapting facilities and buying sanitary vehicles. The last few years of the municipal budget have funded the procurement of two terrain and one passenger vehicle intended to provide urgent medical assistance to citizens. The value of these investments is over five million dinars, and with this practice of investment in healthcare will continue for the coming years. These vehicles have a special role to play in the transport of patients in the mountainous and less accessible parts of our municipality. At the same time, these investments raise the level of preparedness and equipment of the health system as a factor in the disaster protection system, as well as in the emergency management process. The successful application of this law will reduce the damage the units of local self-government suffer from emergency situations. Indicators of disaster risk suggest that any money invested in prevention is returned from one to eight. The adoption of this law will reduce potential financial expenditure in the event of emergency situations, thus contributing to greater investment opportunities in projects of vital importance for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48859	Thank you. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48860	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in the previous announcement, I spoke of the government's aid measures for damaged buildings in Arangelovac, and in addition, the funds for the protection of Arangelovec from the large waters of the Kubrsnica River, the expansion of the troughs and stabilisation of the coast and the bottom of the Kubršnica River through the four kilometres long, which is carried out by the Public Water Agency "Serbia of Water". The value of these works is 12 million dinars. The Republic also authorised 77.5 tonnes of mineral fertilizer distributed to damaged farmers, and the value of these donations is several million dinars. The overall assessment of damages from natural disasters between 2014 and the end of 2017 is higher than 2.1 billion dollars. It is a number without damage from the 2014 floods, which is an additional 1.7 billion euros, according to the Serbian Government's office. This clearly tells us the situation of natural disasters and how important it is for us to try to resolve better legal decisions. Given global flows and the fact that threats from natural disasters have increased over the last decade throughout the world, every responsible society needs to work to improve the degree of resilience and improve the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Serbia. The measures adopted by this law will give us the opportunity to reduce the risk of disasters and mitigate the consequences of citizens and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48861	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48862	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, Article 2 clearly defines the terms and meanings of the proposed law. Serbia today records significant growth and development, not only in the area of the economy, but in the whole of society, and the key contribution to this is certainly political stability. Without political stability, there is no way to talk about progress. When we talk about growth and development, we are usually talking about economic categories and states of Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic and the stability we have in the policy area, but also in the area of economic reforms, has achieved extremely significant economic indicators over the past three years. We are talking about GDP growth, about increasing the number of employees, about reducing the number of unemployed, about a stable monetary policy, but certainly that the challenges ahead can present a significant problem in the functioning of the economy, and these challenges are mostly coming from the outside. What we should not ignore is the fact that GDP growth in Serbia is not affected by system laws at the moment, but can affect climate change. In 2014, we had a flood case. In 2017 with droughts. Drought is something that can affect GDP growth in Serbia. It's hard today and can't be precisely defined by drought. It's even harder to tell the system what it is. In view of the fact that there is no comprehensive analysis and the results of the functioning of the drought, this is certainly a problem, but it is undeniable that drought can have devastating consequences not only on the economy of one nation, above all in the area of agriculture, it can also have consequences for water shortages, by meteorological factors, by agriculture. The fact is that drought is most explored in Vojvodina and central Serbia, that in the past 17 years we have periods of both droughts and periods of floods. All of this affects the need to make sure that the catastrophic consequences of climate change can also affect economic growth and development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48863	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48864	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The bill aims to point out how important it is to invest in preventive action both for the safety of citizens and for the protection of crops and fruits, for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. We have repeatedly been able to hear from our colleagues that every penny has been invested in preventing it from returning multiple times to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the greatest benefit is actually being given to citizens. The objective of the disaster risk reduction law and emergency management is in fact to address the shortcomings in the previous period. The catastrophic floods were certainly a signal for the draft of the law itself, but also for the law we are discussing these days. It is in the mentality of the Serbian people to quickly forget all that is bad. When it comes to catastrophic floods, I can freely say it is justified, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved fantastic results in a responsible policy, exhaustive work, with the unreserved support of President Aleksandar Vukic in the past four years and the impression that Serbia had no problems in 2014. In fact, in the previous period, we have the largest economic growth in Europe, of nearly 5%. According to official data from the Republic Statistics Institute, it is 4.8%. We have a surplus in the budget for three years, and members of the Fiscal Council predict that in 2019 we will have a surplus in the budget, which will be the fourth year in a row, which is really fantastic. Congratulations to all members of the government on rapidly overcoming the problem of catastrophic consequences and on the fantastic results achieved, and I also thank the citizens of Serbia and congratulate them on their excellent assessment in the elections, because thanks to a good estimate of the citizens in 2012, 2014 and 2016, Serbia is saved from human disaster and disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48865	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48866	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia watching the transfer, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. For viewers and citizens who monitor the transmission, I must say that Article 2 contains those terms used in the law and their meaning. In addition to the immeasurable positive effects that we expect by adopting this law on which my colleagues spoke in this two-day debate, I would like to say that for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, this bill introduces the Risk Register as an interactive electronic, geographical, informational database on all risks of elementary and other dangers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This risk register shall be conducted at the central level, i.e. in the MUP. One more thing that citizens who watch the transmission should know is that the Emergency Sector is running a database on losses caused by disasters in the Republic of Serbia, whose keybinding is Desinventar, and this base has been implemented since 2013 in co-operation with the UN International Strategy to reduce the risk of disasters, and activity has been run by the UN Development Programme Office in Belgrade. It should be said that Serbia is one of five countries, the first five countries in Europe that implemented this project and the implementation of the database, and that database is very important, and it is made based on relevant reports by local self-government units that deliver under the pre-filled procedure of the regulation and all data that must be contained in order to accept a co-relevant report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48867	Thank you, Professor. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48868	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here are the previous several years of SNS and our president, Mr. Alexander Vucic, showing that the country's responsible and host leadership is also being managed, but so are all of the local self-governments run by the SNS. I come from Kruševec, and I would like to commend the chief of the emergency sector on this occasion, as counterpart Dusan Todorovic of Kruševec has just told me that they have excellent co-operation and that they are co-operating with determination. Here, in September of the month, they adopted and agreed to the Emergency Sector that the assessment of the threat to the town of Kruševac was adopted according to the current methodology and therefore during the development of protection and rescue plans for the town of Kruševac from danger. So we're really showing that we're working together at all levels and we're moving forward. What I want to point out is that the town of Kruševac is responsible for the emergency situation and is working on the regulation of the Rasina River, with a "Serbian" length of 1.7km. The investment is worth about 15 million dinars. Then the regulation on the four waterways of the second row through the town of Kruševec, through a local operational flood defence plan, 4.3 million dinars. Then, through the Ecology Fund, cleaning from municipal waste and growth is worth 3.7 million dinars. Then support the Kruševec Fire Department through a project of public enchantment. Then, a project will be under way for the construction of dumps to protect against noise applications, worth about 15 million dinars. The alarm system for early announcements ends, worth about 10 million dinars. Two projects are under way to resuscitate the Kruševec area, worth 700,000 dinars, in order to later apply for funds to address the problem. This shows that we are also responsible for the town of Kruševac, that our president is responsible for leading our Serbia and that is why support, our huge and empty ranks are saying what politics is and what the Alliance for Serbia thinks is, that is, "the Alliance for Failure". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48869	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Desanka Repac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48870	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates and dear colleagues. I have submitted an amendment that encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special view to reducing the risk of the migration crisis. A system to reduce the risk of disasters and manage emergency situations of special interest to the Republic of Serbia, it is part of the national security system. One of the disasters that hit Serbia in 2015 is the migrant crisis. You could say that's a global problem. We were all migrants or refugees once. If we refresh our memory just not so much of recent history, the persecution of Serbs from Croatia, and we are not talking about the settlement of Serbs from Kosovo, from the Kosovo color under our patriarchs and beyond. Serbia is a country that understands migrants, the Serbian people are an empathic people, a people who are very rich in history, hence that understanding. The Republic of Serbia has opened 18 reception centres, hired social workers, the only one in Europe has set up reception centres for minor migrants without parents and escorts, and are being cared for by expert teams. This law strengthens the capacity of state institutions dealing with the migrant crisis, with an emphasis on caring and protecting vulnerable categories, especially children. Let's just remember the earthquake pictures of the dead boy on the beach in the Republic of Greece. Addressing the migrant crisis is a complex problem. There's not enough prevention to do that. The paper of this law also represents international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and humanitarian aid, providing and receiving international assistance, for a common response to disasters, such as the migrant crisis. All relevant factors in the Republic of Serbia should be mobilised to a humanitarian migrant disaster...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48871	Thank you, time, Mrs. Repac. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48872	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, Mr. Maric, esteemed colleagues, distinguished citizens, I want to remind us once again, in addition to everything so far, of the catastrophic, elemental disasters that happened to our country four and a half years ago, more specifically in May 2014. During the third week of May 2014, big rains hit Serbia, heavy rainfall led to a rapid and large increase in the level of large rivers in the western, southwest, central, eastern Serbia, Sava, Tamnava, Kolubari, Jadru, western Morava, Velika Morava, Mlava and Peku. Large rainfalls and rising water levels had three direct effects, the sudden flooding of high intensity that resulted in total destruction of houses, bridges and road parts in Krupnje and the surroundings of Šapca. The increased water level resulted in large floods in urban areas, especially in Obrenovac and rural areas around Šapec. In the end, an increased flow of groundwater has led to the creation of a number of slides around Krupanja and Bajia Basta. In one sentence, in total, floods hit about a million and a half people living in 38 municipalities and cities that are mostly situated in central and western Serbia. Reacting to the catastrophic floods and slides that occurred after the flood, the Serbian government declared a state of emergency on May 15, 2014, while calling for assistance from the international community to respond to the disaster. So, the government's responsible. The government has set up a flood crisis headquarters within the NAP's Emergency Sector. So, the responsible government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia established the Office for the Aid and Recovery of Flooded Areas on 22 May 2014. So, the government's responsible. Now, imagine what a mess that would have been if these Alliance for Serbia had been in power then.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48873	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on behalf of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Co-operation of the Union of Chambers, the NJE's Excellency, Mr Suep Muhammad El-Amin with a delegation, who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Let's welcome our esteemed guests. Thanks again. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandra Maletic. Do you want a word? (No) Serbian MP Filipovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does he want a word? (No) MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48874	I thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to article 2 on the rink problem, and where the rink is, we need to do some other things. I would say certain things specifically related to the problem that is happening now on the Old Mountain, there is now a minister, to inform those present, a fire that is already on the third day there, that people are working at full capacity, that there are now helicopters that are shutting down the fire, that more than 20 firemen from Srlig, Nis and the surrounding area and the White Palanca and Piroth are involved. The fire is slowly localizing, which means it's good. The teams that work in the field, the firemen are really efficient, the equipment is very good, but we have a big problem, and it's because of the big smoke and the dark that's coming, so people have to slowly get out of the way, and tomorrow it has to go on with the fires. Otherwise, the fire threatens to light pine forest, beech forest and expand, because there is a great wind and a great storm, and for all of us who live there, that forest is very important and normally we all want to stop it in the best way. With this present gesture and the participation of helicopters on the side of the White Palanca, it would be good if there was a possibility that the helicopters would be able to get the water to the top of the Vrljska Mountains tomorrow so that our firefighters could come, to put out the fire, to stop it all. I think what we're doing right now, these laws, it's very good, if I didn't say it's great for us, the formation of a D.V.D. fire-fighting company, and for everything we need, and also for the respected ministers and vice-president of the government, I'd like to ask you once again to tour our neighborhood and secure a field car for a police station at our place in Svrlig, because it's necessary that our officers and firefighters can come to every part of our community and beyond it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48875	Thank you, fellow Miletic. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, bag buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48876	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs, when we talk about a bill on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations, we must conclude that the main objectives that seek the proposed solutions to the said law are primarily in the comprehensive normation of preventive measures and activities in order to reduce the risk of disasters, effective response in the event of disasters, as well as the more effective removal of their consequences, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area. Experience gained in the previous period, above all, during the catastrophic floods in 2014, but also two years earlier, during a catastrophic drought that caused damages that amounted to over two billion euros indicatively, suggest that the current regulatory framework in the Republic of Serbia still shows certain restrictions, that implementation remains slow, and that the Republic of Serbia remains focused on non-reaction in the event of disaster, while the concept of preparedness and disaster risk reduction should be improved, which is the task of the proposed law. My amendment aims to further define the prevention of drought as an subject of the law, since if we look at forecasts made on the basis of a comprehensive analysis of climate change statistics in Serbia, in the period from 1951 to 2011, we are following an increasingly hot summer with less rainfall, so it is realistic to expect a further extreme increase in average temperature in the next decade. What is particularly visible from this analysis is the growth of the number and continuity of the tropical days when the maximum daily temperature exceeds 30 rises. It also shows that for the first 13 years of this century, as many as five extremely dry years have been recorded, while during the last century extreme temperatures and droughts have been recorded on average three times over two decades. On the other hand, we witness that every year, fewer rainfall has been observed, while at the end of the last century in the western regions of Vojvodina up to 1020 liters of rainfall per metre square metre. During the first decade of this century, only 770 liters of rainfall per metre per square metre fell in the same space, while rainfall in the eastern regions from 810 were reduced to 585 liters. What must attract our absolute attention is the forecasts of a constant trend in reducing the amount of rainfall in the future. For all things, I believe that it is necessary to further highlight the prevention of drought in the proposed law that I must conclude that the best answer at this time is that we can give to the challenges that we face in the area of emergency management and that is why also the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement in the Day will support it with satisfaction, as well as the other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48877	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48878	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the bill, which adds a new position to Article 2 3 to encourage the development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the resolution as a result of the elemental disasters. The timely reaction of local self-government and emergency sector institutions was a great help to the households of the pleasure area from which I came, but almost all municipalities of the Zlatibor County when an unremembered weather, city and large quantities of rainfall hit the area last June. In the weather, all agricultural cultures, as well as road infrastructure, suffered. The damage to the crops was up to 80%, and 25km of these roads were damaged on the ataric roads, while in the town of Užica the stream damaged 2500 metres of square asphalts. According to the authorities, damage in the Zlatibor County during this period has been estimated at as few million euros. Emergency headquarters and damage recovery coordination bodies have made action plans to help damaged and threatened by disasters to mitigate and execute their recovery in the most efficient and shortest possible time. In order to ensure that future disasters are more readily welcomed by local self-governments work to make the best solutions in defense of disasters in line with the available capacities and experiences from earlier times in these situations, of course, taking care of the most critical parts along the riverbeds by providing defensive dikes and cleaning up river streams. Given the importance of the bill, as well as all other laws, Serbian People's Party MPs will support a set of draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48879	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zarko Bogatinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48880	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Stefanovic and his associates, have taken a number of measures and activities since 2014. The town of Leskovac has made a decision on the organisation, functioning of civil protection, creating a prerequisite for organised operation and operation in emergency situations. In line with this decision, a city emergency headquarters headed by the chief of staff, mayor, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, was formed. On the territory of the town of Leskovec, both trustees and deputy civil protection commissioners have been appointed for better and more effective action in the event of an emergency. The training of civil protection commissioners from first aid and fire protection has also been carried out, and a demonstration exercise for the education of the population in the area of civil protection is planned for 2019. The formation of units of civil protection for general purposes is under way, a four-year training plan has been developed and units of general purpose are equipped, as well as the purchase of equipment for personal, mutual and collective protection. The city emergency staff also formed expert operational teams to carry out specific tasks of protection and rescue, a professional and operational team for the protection and rescue of floods, water accidents and water, gliding and snow applications, an expert and operational team for the prevention of infectious diseases, an expert and operational team for evacuation, disposal and disposal, an expert and operational team for protection, fire rescue, explosions and rescue of technical and technological accidents, or accidents. Every year it is written and electronically notified to the population of dangers and criminal provisions for outdoor fires. In 2014, the town of Leskovac also produced an assessment of the hazards and elementary disasters under the then valid methodology, and is currently synchronising according to the new methodology. Every year, the town of Leskovac allocates funds to maintain the public alarm system, and since 2014, all the power sirens for public alerts have been remounted to date, making this system more efficient. In the end, the town of Leskovac singles out about six million dinars each year for preventive action, regulating second-row waterways, to minimise the risk of floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48881	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48882	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Stefanovic, respected ministers from the ministry, respected Members of People's MPs, member 2 defines the meaning of certain terms used in the law. My amendment reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the pandemic recovery." And while the epidemic of the occurrence of one disease in one population, as a rule, is always about infectious diseases, so far, as a broader concept, pandemics mean the spread of infectious diseases in the wider continental and global regions. According to the World Health Organization, the pandemic can be talked about when three conditions are met. In some population, an unknown disease occurred, caused by people being infected, and caused by severe consequences, and thirdly, the causes of the disease spread rapidly and persisted among humans. As regards the definition of an emergency situation, I would call it such that the emergency situation is the situation in which a significant number of people are exposed to major, important and significant events that violate the existing organisation of life and certain social environments, leading to various and numerous processes and measures applied for the purpose of intervention. In emergency situations there are also mass accidents, which cause great damage, suffering or death to a large number of people in a particular area, while in other areas or areas life continues normally or normally. The damage done may have a form of material destruction and human health disorder. Besides, the response of the people can spread beyond the area of disaster, so in that sense I call for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48883	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48884	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, puts the acquis first and foremost on the prevention of this proposal by the Ministry of the Interior, as the implementation of preventive activities certainly directly affects the reduction of the risk of disasters. But what I wanted to put an accent on, it's on high participation, on great responsibility, on the great efficiency of the Ministry of the Interior, when it comes to crisis management, and that concerns the global crisis, the migrant crisis, which also hit the Republic of Serbia, which was actually a transit country of a large number of migrants. It is believed that about a million and 200,000 migrants have passed through our country. Currently in the Republic of Serbia there are about three thousand and 200 migrants and they are located in reception centres. Also, I want to highlight great professionalism, networking, the connection of the Ministry of Interior with other systems, above all with the military system, because thanks to the joint activities and joint patrol of the Ministry of Interior and the military, it is prevented illegally from entering our territory only for an incomplete six months of about 20,000 migrants. I would also like to point out the great involvement of the MUP in the prevention of human traffickers, at their discovery and the MUP in these activities caught or arrested about two thousand traffickers. I would also like to point out that Serbia on this mission, thanks above all to the MUP and other systems, has shown its good and human face, but I would also like to point out that on 16 August 2017, the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, received a ten-year-old boy, Fahrad Nuri, who, through the sale of his art works, actually helped our seven-year-old boy. Serbia's security and security and respect for human rights are the policies of the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48885	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48886	Thank you, Vice President. I'm pleased to see you, Mr. Home Secretary, Dr. Stefanovic, that we see each other very often here, in this high house, along with your associates. That's what it says about your dedicated work and your dedication. You, Mr. Minister, have been preside over the Serbian Parliament in time and according to a general assessment of the MPs, both the positions and the opposition, the best in the last 20 years. You are also a successful minister, as you say, to achieve results under your leadership. The Honored People's MPs, a former regime decorated in Dragan Đilas called "jiki Mafia", Vuk Jeremic, called "the sound of progeny", Sashi Jankovic, known as "sala prangi", Boris Tadic, called "Boris Lipicaner", Sashi Radulovic, called "King of bankruptcy", Janko Veseinović, called "Janko Stanocritic", Dusan Petrovic, called "Dule Krakaubica", Balshi Bozovic, called "Golder with Maldiv", Željko Veseinović, called "Vešinović", called "Vaseloubica", "Duorđe Vukadinović", called "Djoko Vlah", Cedomiro Jovanovic, called "Cedo Smrkanović", Nenadu Čanku, called "Krankutovci", "Nuštovci" and "Nuštavljanjević" are not responsible for the Croatian citizens. Respected Serbian citizens, here they are again, wandering around Serbia, seeking support for Serbia's second robbery. The greatest feature of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that they do not suffer from amnesia and do not forget that they have been sent to a dump of history from which they will certainly never return. In fact, it's an alliance of crooks, con artists, freebaros, lesbians, luftiguzas, windmen and seciks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48887	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48888	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, is more than obvious that this bill is based on a good analysis of all the shortcomings that the 2009 Law had, although repaired in 2011 and 2012, obviously did not withstand the floods in 2014. It's a good thing this law creates the basis for the existence and functioning of the system and that's exactly what the main characteristic of this law is. You know, we can't always rely on, like when 2014 happened, the commitment of people, individuals, ordinary citizens, and the highest leadership of the Republic of Serbia to replace the lack of systems and failures created from 2000 to 2012 with the complete destruction of civil protection, the Army of the Republic of Serbia and the rest. The commitment of the citizens of Obrenovac is well remembered, remembering the situation in which Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, along with Aleksandra Vulina, personally supervised the evacuation of mothers with children from the elementary school "Jefimija" who were evacuated in the flood wave to the only amphibium that survived the previous regime. The only amphibious in Serbia that has been right, which these bastards have failed to sell, tear and take a small commission for it, not taking care of Serbian citizens. I know you've been there, waiting for the whole three, so to speak, tours, to have people evacuated. But, you know, we can't always rely on dedicated people to replace the lack of systems and laws. I alone, in the wildest dreams and the wildest dreams, can't imagine how Obrenovac would have gone into evac, and also in the restoration that, by some case, the president of Serbia was, God forbid, Boris Tadic, that instead of Bate Gasic, Sutanovac was in office, that instead of Dikovic was Chief of General Staff Ponoš, and by some accident, don't let it happen to us, that instead of Alexander Vukic, as prime minister, he was Mirko Cvetkovic at the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law is therefore very good, it does not open room for mistakes and I hope that its literal implementation will work both on prevention and on any removal of the consequences of any disaster that can be overcome over Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48889	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48890	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stefanovic, with his associates and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, registered more than 11,500 streams of water streams in Serbia, while the torrential floods represent the most common phenomenon from the arsenals of the so-called. natural factors, i.e. natural risks. The floods that have hit Serbia since the third week of May 2014, have caused a truly large material damage estimated at 1.7 billion euros. I come from the township of Rakovica, which was also affected by the floods in May 2014, and I can say that the experiences from the field were such that there was indeed an adequate reaction and local emergency headquarters, headed by the then president of the township of Rakovic, Mr Milickovic, but also all the competent authorities and members of the gendarmes and members of the military and police and all those rescuers who were day and night with the citizens of Serbia, led to the rescue of human lives, to save their property and to really combat the spread of this great historical monster that attacked our country. I really know you've inherited a very difficult condition in the MUP. You've inherited that condition only if we take the Emergency Sector, we come to the fact that the old timers, fire trucks, over 40, 45 years old, fire trucks, so old, have put out the fires. We're different from the predecessors exactly by what the results say about us. And what were the results of the MUP in the first seven months of 2018? I want to point out the following. Official data said there was a decrease in property delicacies and robbery to as much as 25%, that crimes with elements of violence were reduced by 22%, and as for theft and heavy theft, there were fewer by 16%. Please, I ask all representatives of the MUP to proceed with further reform in the MUP and when it comes to the supply of equipment and when it comes to further modernising the reform of the MUP. This is important because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important because of future investors, current investors who come and invest in our country. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the reform laws in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48891	National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48892	The esteemed chairman, respected co-workers of Minister Stefanovic, comes from the necessity of each responsible society to work continuously to improve its degree of resistance to threats and threats to disasters, as well as the fact that the suffering species in the last decade have been increasingly and globally present, and that they can be expected to increase and in the future, it is necessary to review the needs and opportunities to improve the existing system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Serbia. This system faces great challenges. Such a challenge was also floods in the Republic of Serbia in May 2014. My colleagues in their discussions have already noted, as I have in my previous address, the consequences of these floods. Based on experience gained in the previous period, I point out that the current regulatory framework in the Republic of Serbia still shows certain restrictions that implementation remains slow, and that the Republic of Serbia remains focused on disaster response, while the concept of preparedness and disaster risk reduction should be improved. In order to minimise the risk, the MAP significantly improved the fleet during 2017 and 2018 by purchasing new patrol vehicles, transport vehicles, marches, cargo vehicles, fire trucks and modernising combat armored vehicles. Also before the purchase of new patrol vehicles, the average age of the vehicle in the MUP was 14 years, and the vehicles averaged 250,000 kilometers. The ministry also acquired 14 fire trucks for the needs of the Emergency Sector, while all 60 fire trucks will be purchased by the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48893	Thank you very much. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48894	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my previous presentation, I've been presenting the activities we've taken in the city of Boru in the field of disaster risk reduction and emergency management, so I'm going to continue in that direction. At the next meeting of the City Assembly of Bor, a decision on the formation of units of civil protection will be found on the agenda, i.e. general purposes for the city of Bor. The goal is for these units to have as many members as possible. We also envisaged budgets and means of equipment, i.e. to equip units of civil protection for general purposes, and negotiations are under way with the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis about the training of these units. The Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre has agreed to maintain the training of civil protection units and remains only to agree with them on details. The city of Bor has also helped a system of anti-building protection in our city's territory within legal opportunities, and in this we are in the eastern part of Serbia the fastest. We bought anti-building missiles from the Fund of Programmes to support agricultural policy of 1.5 million dinars and donated them to the Republic hydrometeorological institution of Serbia. Based on the operational drop in defence against floods for the second row of the city of Bora for 2018, and in order to protect against water and prevent the deterioration of the water regime, to ensure the passage of large waters and the implementation of defences against floods, we have also launched a process of cleaning the second-row water streams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48895	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tanja Tomaševic Damnjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48896	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to be in Article 2. The draft law adds Article 3 and all in order to further define Article 2 and points to the importance of reducing the risk of the consequences of the city. The preventive sowing of potentially urban clouds in the Republic of Serbia during the first part of the 2018 season was carried out throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It worked on 13 radar centres and activated a network of 1,426 launch stations. The Samos radar centre, the city's defence, is conducting on the territory of 15 municipalities and cities in the North-Bandat, Central and South-Bandat County and Belgrade. In April of this year, the town of Vrsac signed contracts with 28 anti-urban shooters, who have been hired over the past six months, more specifically until 15 October. 40 anti-building missiles were secured, and along with last year's rockets there were more than 70 missiles in total. There are 16 launch stations in the territory of the town of Vrsac and surrounding villages, of which only one is not active in Vršačka Rits because of the poor condition of the facility. The adoption of this law is proposed to improve the overall framework for the establishment of an effective integrated disaster risk reduction and emergency management system in order to reduce existing risks, prevent future risks and respond more effectively to disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48897	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48898	Thank you, Your Honor. The law on disaster risk reduction and emergency management is joint preparation, community engagement, units of local self-government, legal entities and citizens. The bill removes what has proved to be insufficiently effective in practice, and new solutions are simplified and easier to apply. Preventive activities and just not taking the same ones by the entities of the system are the key disadvantages that occurred in the previous period. The plan of protection and rescue has so far been built by a small number of local self-government units, and new legal solutions help system entities, all in order to reduce the risk of disasters. Plans for documents, improved co-operation and dialogue between different institutions at national level, international co-operation and in the area of prevention, as well as humanitarian aid have been organised. Citizens play a major role in emergency situations and timely response of citizens and certain institutions is also prescribed by law. The lesson we learned in 2014 will be applied through good legal solutions and we will be ready for the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48899	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Pesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48900	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues spoke a lot about the catastrophic floods that struck Serbia in 2014, the consequences of these floods, and the importance of preventive measures. I will take the opportunity to mention the way the Democratic Party treated this topic while it was leading the state. The settlement Bobište in Leskovac was first flooded in 2005 and then in 2010. Nearly 800 households are flooded by the spilling of a canal that passes through the entire village, and in some houses the height of water was over one metre. During these floods, Serbian President Boris Tadic also told the media, and there are written clues, that there is no rational explanation why the drain that has been passing through the settlement has not been cleared for years. Of course, Boris Tadic, as Serbia's president, then promised citizens that he would move urgently to build an efficient and functional water drain channel to minimise the risk of a new spill. Of course, it never happened. By the time the SNS party came to power, citizens of this town were terrified of new spills during every major rain. In 2012, when the SNS came to power, the channel was deepened, cleaned and coated with concrete slabs of 400m in critical places throughout the village, and for that the state of Serbia allocated 30m dinars. My colleague Zarko Bogatinović had just talked about the separations that the town of Leskovac has to do with preventive protection, I just want to add that the City of Leskovac has so far allocated over 30 million dinars for the recovery of over 50km of second-class waterways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48901	Thank you. Always impressive results from Leskovci. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48902	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The definitions referred to in Article 2 refer to the terms used in the law, whose meanings are not subsequently defined by the provisions of the law. In total, 25 expressions are covered, starting from the basic concept of disaster to the major accident. In determining definitions to the greatest extent, accepted international terminology has been used, with appropriate adjustments to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and rules in the spirit of the Serbian language. The terms and expressions of which are not bindingly defined in another regulation are defined, and for the purposes of correct application and understanding of the solutions contained in this law, their precise definition is necessary. Mr. Minister, what I want to talk about is certainly a migrant crisis and that a large number of migrants have passed through the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, municipalities that are a mixed national composition of the population. Here I would like to express my gratitude to you and the members of the Ministry of the Interior at a high level of professionalism, because there have been no incidents of conflict and incidents between migrants and locals, although there have been a few thousand migrants in Presevo. So the interior ministry has made a full contribution to resolving the migrant crisis because about 1.2 million migrants have passed through Serbia. I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48903	Thank you, colleague Mitrovica. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48904	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the previous amendment, I have apostropheded that to prevent and mitigate floods the most important prevention. In this regard, the Republic of Serbia has invested significant funds in the period from 2014 to today and is worth about half a billion euros in dozens of different projects. In addition to the Republic of Serbia, however, the biggest donor for prevention and reconstruction is the European Union, which has donated 172m euros for this purpose. Over the past four years, the European Union has been working with the Serbian authorities to tackle the effects of floods in 51 municipalities, and it has been about the reconstruction and construction of numerous buildings, homes, public buildings, bridges, and the aid that has been granted directly benefiting 150,000 people. In this context, the flood recovery project, the creation of a risk map and a risk map for Serbia's territory, financed from the IPA 2014 amounting to 6.15m euros, with the implementation support of the World Bank, should also be highlighted. The money of the project provides the most modern equipment for laser-recording the terrain from the air, as well as hardware and data processing software, as well as one field vehicle. The project will create maps, risk maps for 74 areas defined as blue areas or about 9,500 square kilometers, and the Military and Geographical Institute will record the terrain in 2018 and 2019. Donated equipment should help improve flood preparedness, make more efficient resources available and react better. In the past four years, a huge job has been done on this plan. Serbia today is several giant steps away from where it was in 2014, when we were hit by large floods, safer than floods and more ready to react in emergency situations, but since climate change is huge and unfavourable, we need to do more, smarter, more effectively, exactly what the current government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48905	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48906	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the experience gained in previous periods, above all, during the catastrophic flood of 2014, and other disasters that followed, but less intensity, suggests that the Republic of Serbia remains focused on disaster response, that the concept of preparedness of disaster risk reduction should be improved. The proposed law aims to enable entities to overcome obstacles to existing capacities and to develop measures to reduce the risk of disaster and emergency management in order to reduce existing risks, prevent future risks, respond more effectively to disasters. It is therefore necessary to achieve a wide range of activities and to achieve more goals. We can't guarantee the river won't flood. Nature can't be won, but citizens can change their behavior. An elemental accident is considered a surprise, a major accident that interrupts normal life, causes victims, damages property and infrastructures of the environment and overcomes the community's ability to remove them on its own. With regard to the emergency situation in the areas of KIM or the elemental disaster resulting from DOS policy since 5 October 2000, and everything that is happening today in KIM is the consequence of what Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, Borko Stefanovic, all those who are the leader of Djilas and who made it possible for Kosovo to declare independence and set borders with Serbia. Today, representatives of the Serbian government, the Serb Lists are trying to remove the consequences of the government, preserve and save what is in the KIM premises of you who have destroyed all traces of the Serbian statehood of the institutions. To call the Serbian List and all its members criminals because they sit in parliament and government and fight for the interests of their people, and you do it because you are bothered by the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, who cares about his people, is staying in the premises of KIM, building roads, schools, dormitories, hospitals, helping to develop agriculture and rural population, because he knows every village and secession in the KIM area, or because the people in the elections show that he trusts Alexander Vukic and his politics and supports every solution. The state of Serbia, Aleksandra Vukic -- the Serb List, and the Serbian Army are also there for the people in the KIM areas to protect him and protect him from all natural disasters.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48907	Thank you. National MP Milan Krivokapic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48908	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Act, which adds paragraph 3. Facing unremembered floods in May 2014, has brought again, unfortunately, insight into the dysfunction of the state system, which was 14 years under the authority of the previous government. The Mayan floods showed how many embankments were abandoned, not enough, drains abandoned and dysfunctional, the alarm system was almost faulty in all places. At the time, President Aleksandar Vukic and Serbian citizens were at the height of the task, reacting as best they could under the given circumstances. We need to be aware that emergency situations have become more common, more diverse, and whether they are created by nature or man, they cause an increasing impact on people every day, material goods and the environment. Given all the characteristics of the 21st century, emergency situations pose a very serious threat to citizens' safety. In order to prevent the occurrence of an epidemic in the areas affected by the elemental disasters, during and after the elemental unfavourable, daily hygiene and epidemiological surveillance must be done, it shall adopt a proposal to measure and participate in the realisation of the same and surveying the population in endangered areas. These jobs are done by the Department of Public Health. Catastrophes and emergency situations have a number of adverse consequences for human health. Timely and preventive activities during and after emergency situations can significantly reduce the risk of adverse consequences. One of the most important preventive activities is activities to prevent infectious diseases, including the recovery and implementation of disinfection measures, disinfection and deratiation of residential, business and public facilities. Rehabilitation measures shall be carried out until all potential risks for the development of an outbreak of infectious diseases have been removed and the population can safely return and stay in their homes and apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48909	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal Giurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48910	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. Acting under the now applicable Emergency Act, the local self-government of the Municipality of Great Plan has made an assessment of the threat of natural disasters on the territory of this municipality which formed the basis for the development of an emergency protection and rescue plan. Historically, we have been observing the territory of the Municipality of the Great Plan in the last 100 years has not been exposed to a large number of accidents caused by human factor and natural occurrences in terms of natural disasters that would be such a size and intensity to leave extremely severe consequences for the population and material goods. However, we are witnessing radical meteorological phenomena and climate change that have recently had a significant impact on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Danube County and the territory of the Municipality of the Great Plan. From there, we can assume that the territory of the Municipality of Great Plan is also caused by various dangers, especially natural disasters and other disasters that can cause many consequences for the population and material goods. I'll list some of the main risks. Floods caused by flash currents. The appearance of active slides after heavy rainfall, snowy applications to communications almost every year, low temperatures and the appearance of ice on the waterways, higher forest fires etc. The new Emergency Risk Reduction and Emergency Management Act establishes mechanisms for an even more effective reduction of disaster risk and emergency management with an emphasis on response prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48911	I thank my colleague. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48912	Ladies and gentlemen, as we talk today about how to do the right thing at a time of great danger and emergency, it is inevitable to remember how it happened in those environments where, unfortunately, people who lived there looked after completely irresponsible people, people who cared only about their own pocket, only their own father and never gave tobacco pipe for people who were entrusted to them, for the system they were entrusted with, for the municipalities and cities they managed. So we remembered that unfortunate Zelenovic from Sapac, and we can't not mention him now, because just as this session lasts, the unfortunate unfortunate person, is lying in the Council of Europe, slandering and speaking the worst possible things about his own country, about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, about the SNS. The man is now living in a stream that is being broadcast by a TV Shabac, which he probably could well reward for such behavior from the city budget, but also by his listeners in the media sector, so-called. "daysoids" and similar ones, now live on some life streams, in some direct citizens' addresses. The "danasoid" has been nice and printed out on two sides in color, probably for free, as they only know how to do these disgusting allegations for today's number, and now they're transferring to Facebook that Zelenovic what he's saying, what he likes to lie about, and you're going to report again tomorrow terribly concerned about democracy in Serbia, terribly concerned about media freedoms in Serbia. I hope Zelenovic will also explain these issues first by telling the Council of Europe that he, his Djilas, his Jeremic, his Stefanovic, his Bosko Obradovic, his Zeljko Veselinovic, is seeking to kidnap the authorities on the street because they openly say so here and let him repeat it in Strasbourg. I hope they'll explain there that they're in favour of liquidating political opponents because they say so here and let them do it again in Strasbourg. I hope they'll tell them that they're pushing for rape of women who are political opponents who see themselves as enemies, I hope, because here they say, let the expensive courage say so in Strasbourg. In the end, may all these most beautiful things be explained to them, all the very democratic methods relating to murder, liquidation, the lynching of the street and the taking of power by violent methods, and surely the Council of Europe will understand it just as well as these "days" of his N1 and the other journalists who are a disgrace not only to the profession, the shame of human dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48913	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Excuse me, colleague Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48914	Yes, I have reported to support Mr Orlic's amendment, especially this explanation, it is really unacceptable for representatives of Serbia's state at any level of local self-government, so I don't know how far they go in the white world to complain about their country, the government, no matter how dissatisfied they are with that authority, there are places within the state of Serbia where they express themselves, above all, here are the MPs in the National Assembly. But we also heard today from one of our fellow MPs who threatened Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, that if he did not fulfil his ultimatum in a short period of time, he would also use some of his connections and friendships, he also said, out of the state of Serbia. This is really what is happening and what is being announced, it is simply not good for the state of Serbia or for our institutions, and we all need to stand together to protect the institutions of the system and our country above all. We heard about it yesterday, as Sulejman Ugljanin called Serbia a fascist plant, which he will destroy with what they call "Vakat is", the group. And the question we are actually asking, here is Mr. Martinovic, as head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Stefanovic, as minister to you, Mr. Arsic, as chairman at the moment. If the coalition, if a coalition is made between Sulejman Ugljanin and this group "Vakat is" behind which Rasim Ljajic stands, will Rasim Ljajic still be able to remain a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia? And this is really very serious. We have asked several times for him to plead and say not only that he condemns something that Suleiman Ugljanin said, but in part to show whether he will go to the post-election coalition with Suleiman Ugljanin? If it goes to that coalition, then it can really no longer be a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia, if it is in a coalition with the Ugljanin that says Serbia is a fascist creation. And I would really like that, here are all of you who I have called as people who have certain powers in power to answer this question. First of all, the public who is quite upset and concerned about the statement and the possibility that Ljajic will be in a post-election coalition with Ugljanin and will work together with him to destroy Serbia as Ugljanin promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48915	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic, just so I know my colleague, Mijatovic, are you after an amendment or a replica? Replica. All right, first Mr. Orlic, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48916	In the part relating to my presentation, a question of relations with the National Assembly, or the president of the National Assembly, was raised. Objection completely in place. Make sure that Zelenovic, today at the Council of Europe, says his coalition partners also treated the National Assembly, and to the president, Mrs Gojkovic. This must be done inexplicably if he wants to explain to them what he and the rest of his and Gilasov and Jeremic and Obradovic's famous tycoon-Ijotić association thinks is right. Let it be commended there to be physically attacked, Bosko Obradovic and his court president, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, to be commended there to be obliged to pick up microphones here, to be commended there, as they treated her. They also treated other MPs because they certainly had high standards of democracy for them. May he continue to boast, since the media will talk for sure, as they treated journalists, say the name and name of all journalists who were brutally beaten by protesting in front of radio and television studios. Let him further explain that in this same way they were again counting on women in RIK, these are all fantastic examples, excellent standards, high standards in the democratic world. For these comments, and for these questions and for encouraging them to be fully open, to camouflage and to show before the Council of Europe that we have already used them for something, you have heard it in this class of terms – treason. We never used that word, but let Zelenović read the unfortunate statement by his Vuk Jeremic and his People's Party, in which he directly accuses Aleksandar Vukic, not only do they not want to write the word - treason, but they sign those disgusting and disgusting statements with the order of Vuk Jeremic, Miroslav Aleksic, Sinisa Kovacevic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Čiplic some, Ponoš some and some Jovanovic. So they don't hesitate to accuse their president in the most disgusting way possible, and then sign it by name and last name. I will also show you a photograph of how they do not hesitate to hold the banners on which the terms are - traitor and betrayal, and those belonging to the second group of the Parliament of Vuk Jeremic and by no means differ in that. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Neither those who call for the liquidation of the court nor those of the false union unions of Veselinovic who would brutally rape. Let them say nicely by name and last name as they have signed here, that these are their standards and surely the Council of Europe will understand them perfectly, and Serbia understands them more than well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48917	Right on line, MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48918	You know, in my previous presentation, I said it's degutant to respond, but it has to be answered and we'll always answer. There is a beautiful folk proverb: “The wolf changes the hair, but the plague never does. ” A party that made major political mistakes in foreign policy, where the party, the Croatian delegation of the president of the Croatian Parliament, left the country, made the same member of the party a very big fall out in Europe. So all the policy that we are leading now that Serbia has a more beautiful, better face, that Serbia should prove to be a modern European country, this party now suddenly becomes a midwife and tells us how and how to work. There's no need. The Social Democratic Party in its policy, foreign policy consistently follows the ruling coalition's policy, every performance by Minister Ljajic, every performance of our delegation abroad has always been in line with the country's foreign policy, our country to be part of the European community. That is why we will always react and show that other, more beautiful Serbia and distance ourselves from those forces that have made us in the 1990s that Serbia must now take out the stains of everything that has been done at this time, even when they participated in power. Therefore, be assured, the SDPS will consistently follow Serbia's foreign policy. She's done it and done it before. You won't stop us and you can't stop us because you're a loser party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48919	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48920	The Serbian Radical Party is representing and will represent the SRS programme and policy, confident it is the best thing for all Serbian citizens. Mr. Mijatovic mentioned a European community, and it doesn't exist for a long time, and I don't know what he meant exactly, whether the Council of Europe, the EU, what it is to him by the European community, here I don't know. It doesn't matter. The question I asked on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was very precise and here I repeat it – if Rasim Ljajic through this group "Vakat is", make a coalition in the national council with Sulejman Ugljanin, will it be possible for Rasim Ljajic to be a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia after that? I remind you of what Sulejman Ugljanin said to Serbia -- that Serbia is a fascist creature, that this creation should be destroyed. It is a very simple question if someone is in a high state position, such as Rasim Ljajic, if he makes that coalition, is it possible that he will continue to be in the post. And who's the loser party, who's the winning party, Mr. Ljajic or Mijatovic's party who just talked about it, doesn't know what her rating is, because how will she know what her rating is like when they haven't gone out on their own for 18 years. So, the parties that go out on their own, have a rating once like this, sometimes like that. It's a matter of voter will, of the will of the citizens. We have never objected against that will, and we have never been angry with our constituents. We are confident that it is approaching and that the ever closer time for citizens to realize that our only policy is politics against the EU and in the interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Mr. Arsic, I conclude with a sentence, I ask all of you representatives of the government to answer the question whether Ljajic will be Vice President and Minister of Government, if he makes a coalition through this "Vakat je" with Sulejman Ugljanin?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48921	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48922	I'd like some of Mr. Orlic's amendment. There was one interesting thing when he spoke. There's a group of people doing something, I'd call it a magic trick, but I don't want to insult magicians. This is a trick that when you take, you steal money, the first thing you do after that, you go out and say, "I'm in opposition politics now." Now, that's a famous trick, because after that sentence no one can ask you any more, because if he asks you, you'll go somewhere to whine about how someone's been stalking you, interrogating you, investigating you, God forbid because you stole the money, that's normal, that was totally natural. No, it's because you're dealing with opposition politics now. By yesterday, you were the government, you managed the state, you stole the money, and all of a sudden you're doing the famous word - opposition policy. Like this, one big title in the neon is bright and you tell me now - no one can ask where I was stealing, how I stole, what I took from the people, no matter, just let me deal with opposition politics. If he comes by chance, for example, DRI - what those people are doing and what they're looking for in the first place, who called them in the first place, and where did they even get the right to investigate anything. That should get a call from those who robbed, to come, and then come. If they don't get a call, then don't come. God forbid the tax administration. Save God and hide, only they don't come, and God forbid one of the state's authorities is coming to fight corruption. If they find that you've stolen, of course, they can't file any charges, charges, because it's pressure, because you're dealing with, you'll guess, opposition policy, big in the neon, and, of course, that trick goes fantastic. Now, when someone asks something, they immediately run across the border to whine there somewhere that they're suddenly tortured, tortured and nobody says, yes, we're under investigation, not because we've had some verbal delinquent, no one's investigating us because we said something, they're investigating us because we took the money. No, that part they forget to say. It's usually that trick, I'd call it, I say, magic, but I don't want these honest people who do magic to insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48923	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48924	Thank you, Chairman. It's a good thing the cards are on the table and Serbia has a chance to see. Today, while this unfortunate Zelenovic and the people of the Alliance for Serbia gossip and spit on their own country and people, together we are all trying with representatives of the government and the president to do a good thing for Serbia and we will continue to do so in the future. My amendment is, let me just say, one modest contribution to this joint business that we're all in together. Namely, my amendment speaks, first of all, of how this law affects overall development in the Republic of Serbia and with a particular reference to all the problems that arise, above all, from the migrant crisis. As you know, each of these terms listed in Article 2 in a certain way, especially when it comes to a dangerous phenomenon, affects the entire system and the economy of a country, and thus also the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in most cases that impact is negative. However, there are also situations where a danger, a social or sociological phenomenon, can even have a positive impact on a society. Isn't that proof of the migrant crisis in Serbia and the way this country faced it? Serbia has come out of this problem with a seriously strengthened international reputation and no moment has stopped reform, no moment has stopped this economic growth in Serbia and has not affected development in the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, things were still moving in a positive direction. The state-level policy of the then Prime Minister certainly affected the local level. I am witnessing that even in Subotica, a city that was hit directly by the migrant crisis, at that moment the institutions are seriously strengthened, the number of employees has increased and this is a direct consequence of the serious and responsible policy of the then government, led by Aleksandar Vukic. My amendment is, in fact, an emphasis on these things, and it in itself emphasises that this law is a contribution once so seriously organised and responsible system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48925	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my colleague Orlic said, as we now speak in the National Assembly, the Mayor of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic, pronounces the most difficult possible untruths and slanders at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. Now, my colleagues have shown me, TV Shabac and the list "Today" via their Facebook page, directly conveying the exhibition of Nebojska Zelenovic. I've been listening to that for a while. He's talking about how ministers, senior state officials, and, be careful, some Hague convicts are putting pressure on councilmen in the assembly of the town of Sapca to move to the side of the SNS. As the main Hague convict who allegedly pressures the council members of the town of Sapca, Zelenovic apostrophe of Mr. Veselin Sljivancanin, who allegedly attended a council member in Sapac and urged him to move to the SNS. It is clear that this is a flagrant lie, but also an incredible pressure on the state of Serbia at a time when the state of Serbia is leading, perhaps, one of the court battles for Kosovo and Metohija. And you and I, Mr. Stefanovic, and many other colleagues sitting here weren't always in power. We've been in opposition for many years, but it never occurred to us to go anywhere in the white world, in front of any international institution and international forum, and to speak ill of our own country. We've never done that before. This is a precedent in Serbia's political history, that the mayor of Sapca, who, by the way, is just a pro-form mayor, the actual local prince in Sapac is Dusan Petrovic, the citizens must know that, a man who has been directly connected, since he was elected president of SO Sabac in 1996, is directly connected to the Sabbath drug mafia. He was hanging out with a certain Morav, with the Suvajdzic brothers. So these are notorious criminals. He's the real manager of the town of Capca. This Nebojsa Zelenovic is actually just his extended arm, but what Nebojsa Zelenovic will not say today in the Council of Europe is what you, Mr Stefanovic, said in 2015, found that the budget of the town of Sapca was damaged by more than five million euros. Nebojsa Zelenovic, Dusan Petrovic and those who run the town of Sapec did so. Nebojsa Zelenovic is also false that the SNS is not in power only in Sapac, Catitina and Paracina. He won't say that there are other local self-governments in which the SNS is not in power. We, for example, are not in power in Svilinco. I have to say this now because some citizens of the Svilinite have asked me to. Had it not been for Alexander Vukic, had it not been for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Svilajnac, as well as Sabac, would have experienced a complete disaster in 2014 due to unremembered floods, and that was the opposition's strategy in Serbia, that it did nothing. Dusan Petrovic claimed that Aleksandar Vukic is lying about the dangers of the Savah, to manipulate the level of the Sava River water supply. The same situation you had in Svilinco. If we had not responded in these local governments in good time, both in Šapac and in Svilajnc and in many other places where Nebojsa Zelenović and him were similar to the authorities, and municipalities, that is, those cities would be literally submerged, as in Bible times. Of course, he will not say that today in Strasbourg before the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, but in the worst possible way, he will accuse his own state, the President of the Republic, the government that we are allegedly pressured to change power in Sapac and in all these municipalities, or cities where the SNS is not in power. Instead, there's a harangus and lynch. Here, I'm showing you today's edition of Today's List. I think this has been unrecorded since the time of Goebbels and Adolf Hitler, that on the central pages of the list "Today" the worst possible campaign against Boban Birmancevic, Blaže Knezevic, Aleksandr Pajic, SNS, against Veselin Sljivancanin. People are accused of amazing things they've never participated in, with which they have absolutely nothing to do with, except indicate that it's being stolen by local authorities in Shappac and that the city is completely devastated. We'll never sue any media. That's what Aleksandar Vucic said today, but Serbian citizens should know, let the citizens of Sapca know, and the citizens of Chatin, and the citizens of Paracino, and citizens of Svilinca and citizens of all other local self-governments in which SNS is not in power – it is not a matter of whether the SNS is in power or not, the thing is that those who rob Serbian citizens draw on themselves the suit of politicians and that opposition politician and then think they are protected from the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Let's do it for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48927	Thank you. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jancic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, before us, I Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management, which creates all the necessary conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural and other disasters, which will contribute to increasing the level of security of our citizens. It finally establishes a system to reduce the risk of disasters with the obligation of preventive action to eliminate risks from the same ones, not their treatments, which we unfortunately did years ago, which is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia clearly demonstrates responsibility for citizens and their property. The effects of drought in Serbia in the earlier period directly affected the growth of GDP and the development of our agriculture, and could be prevented with the awareness that the water shortage cannot be compensated, but the existing water must be deployed, with a clear plan for this, which has to be adopted, thanks to the president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Drought as an elemental accident has a definition depending on the impact that causes hydrological, meteorological, agricultural and economic droughts. We experienced the most severe form of economic drought under the leadership of the previous regime and the rule of the DS from 5 October 2000 to 2012, and in Vojvodina until 2016, when Serbia was destroyed and robbed and citizens brought to the brink of poverty and hunger and left without work and future. Fortunately, that time is behind us. We paid dearly for it. A time of misery, a time without perspective, development and progress were well understood, and as many elections show, they have not forgotten it, as it is seen in Serbia today that better and better lives are being seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48929	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Here you go, buddy Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48930	Dear Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 with special reference to reducing the risk of an outbreak of infectious diseases. Thanks to vaccines and vaccinations, a number of infectious diseases that literally harassed the earth have been eradicated. We older ones remember the great goddesses very well, then, the diphtheria which, thanks to the vaccine against her, has been gone for six decades and is similar to polio. Of course, no one thinks these vaccines should be discontinued because of the real fear of possible new epidemics. The fact is that many lives have been preserved in the last 30 years, thanks to vaccines against infectious diseases. But these young populations don't view vaccinations that way. The question arises why parents refuse to vaccinate children? So often we witness different opinions about vaccination, although the vast majority of doctors and parents are for, it seems that the opponent is more and more every day. In any case, this is always the current topic and the current question, and the reason for this division among parents and the general public should be sought and essentially divided into two groups. In the first place is poor education, i.e. not knowing the basic principles of vaccines and vaccinations, as well as their useful effects with potentiation of often invented side effects. There are also numerous delusions including unfounded certainty that most of the disease has already been eradicated, so children should not be vaccinated. We can say that it is the fruit of scarce education and a very dangerous delusion that a child should only gain resistance to bacteria and viruses, and vaccines are undesirable. But it's very difficult not to remember and forget the death of unvaccinated children who have received the most severe form of laryngitis, or sore throat caused by hemophilus influense. Since the vaccine is mandatory in Serbia, there have been no more such terrible outcomes. Another group of causes can always be covered by the current conspiracy theory that has carried out rich pharmaceutical houses in order to earn profits and at the expense of our children. I agree that healthy scientific skepticism is always welcome, but then this story is very close to paranoia. On the other hand, in order for one vaccine to enter the market to pass several dense filters of testing, several years of testing of an enormous number of subjects, and when the vaccine is placed on the market... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48931	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Majkic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48932	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the Emergency Sector runs a database on losses caused by disasters in the Republic of Serbia, which was implemented in 2013, in co-operation with the UN International Strategy to reduce the risk of disasters, and activity has been co-ordinated by the UN Development Programme Office in Belgrade. All damage data were included in the database based on official reports by local self-government units and reports submitted to the damage management commission from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Emergency Sector received. The total estimated damage from natural disasters in the period from 2014 to the end of 2017 is two billion 155 million dollars, without including flood damage in 2014. The damage caused by the drought in 2012 alone amounted to over two billion dollars, and the damage caused by forest fires that same year was over 50m euros. This bill, for the first time, has seen the risk register in the Republic of Serbia as an interactive, electronic, geographical, informational database on all risks of elementary and other dangers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Access to the database will be made possible to all entities making their own risk assessments or performing certain construction and other investment works. The base will have accessibility levels because certain specific risks will be protected and made available only to the competent authorities of the state administration. In voting day, I will support the draft of this law as well as a set of laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48933	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Radičević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48934	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. The purpose of my amendment is to point to the importance of preventive action. Preventive action prevents major disaster situations and reduces the risk of loss of human life to the minimum possible extent. Natural disasters are created by the operation of natural forces, and they manifest themselves as earthquakes, fires, floods, droughts, storm storms and sinks. Natural disaster can cause loss of life, as well as damage to property. It leaves behind considerable economic damage. The natural disasters that seem to me the most affecting our country are floods. We cannot influence the natural disaster, but we can act preventively to make economic damage less and to protect human lives. The government of the Republic of Serbia and how it works to prevent floods, but it was necessary for the state to run the responsible government. For the past few years, a lot has been done, and one example is in Alexian. In addition to the misery in South Morava, which I was already talking about, the company “Serbian” invested considerable resources in building the dams on the Moravica River, as well as in regulating the riverbed. It happened that in the area of the river city, it came out of its trough and the water came to the center itself. Today is no longer the case, and the Alexincans can live more peacefully. In addition to being protected from the flood, Alexinac also got a nice walk by the river, and only the riverbed was arranged, so we no longer look at the growing corrette, which is normally attached to the bags that the water picked up up up and brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48935	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Mijatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48936	Thank you. And in this amendment to Article 2, I put the accent on prevention and activities that would lead to a reduction in the risk of floods. In 2014, when showers and floods hit the western part of Serbia, the threat of floating populated areas on the left and right coast of the Danube, in the Belgrade municipality of Palilula, was becoming more serious. In addition to the engagement of members of the MUP, the Serbian Army, local self-government and citizenship, large areas of agricultural land and residential facilities have just remained underwater. Based on reports of natural and legal persons, the damage was found at a total of 108 construction facilities of 21 million dinars. As regards agricultural land located in private property, the damage caused by the flood, i.e. the flood, identified at 240 hectares of 165 million dinar, in particular 50 hectares in Velika Sela for a total of 104 farmers and 190 hectares in Ovča, Krnjača and Padinska Skela for a total of 78 farmers. In the case of agricultural land located in public property, the PKB Corporation's land, damage has been found from floods to 1555 hectares, amounting to nearly 300 million dinars. When we look at how much funding has been spent to address the consequences of the disaster that has hit Serbia, the unprecedented disasters in the last 120 years, then we can also conclude the importance of today's debate and our action in terms of prevention, so that the consequences and costs for the resolution of the same ones are reduced to a minimum. That's why in the voting day, along with my colleagues, I'm going to support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48937	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48938	Thank you, Chairman. On this occasion, I will talk about the Niš City Emergency Station, which, according to the tasks of civil protection, has educated expert and operational teams, and the following – for the protection from skating, for the protection and rescue from fires and explosions, for radio-chemical-biological protection, for the protection against destruction and rescue from ruins, for the protection, for the protection and rescue of snow applications, for evacuation, for the protection and rescue from floods and accidents on water and underwater. The Niš City Emergency Station shall adopt a work plan for each year and due to the time mentioned in 2018. Namely, when we talk about activities related to the implementation of flood defences in the territory of the town of Nis for second row waterways for 2018, regular maintenance is envisaged, and it is intended to clean the waterways of the Jelašnica river through the length of 1635 meters with coastal security; then the river Studena in Gornji Studena in the length of 150 meters, also, cleaning the riverbed with coastal and bridge insurance at the entrance to the village; Kovanlučki stream downriver from the Nisca Banje to the mouth in the river Nisava in the length of 600 meters, also, cleaning the riverbed with coastal insurance; Humski stream, regulated section in the bridge zone in Timoshenko and in the area of the highway, which includes the cleaning of rivers with coastal security; also the Velepoljska river in Gornja Trnava, a section in the village, in the area of 50 meters, in which is also covered by river. Of course, and the purchase of equipment in terms of the flood system i.e. Mobile dams, which are double, double layer, flexible pipes. Finally, the city of Nis and the Emergency Staff are very serious and responsible for carrying out tasks and tasks in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48939	Thank you. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48940	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, fellow MPs, the emergency response system was facing major challenges in the previous period and in the near and distant past we had a situation of meeting with elementary disasters. In 2014, big floods hit our country. Obrenovac was absolutely flooded, in 2008, the Kraljevo earthquake struck, in 2005, Jasu Tomic, close to my Zrenjanin, with catastrophic floods. Afterwards, agriculture, as well as many households, and in October 2018, a fire occurred in the vicinity of the village of Belo Blato. We are not in such a climate that there are frequent fires, such as in Greece or Turkey. However, such accidents happen and with their friends, as well as rescuers, I was at the epicenter of that fire and I can tell you it was disastrous, when you see that a natural reserve, such as the Imperial Bar, is burning. We were most afraid of it because the fields were burning, the crops of which the inhabitants of the White Mud live, because they deal with the production of the cane. However, many habitats of plant and animal species have been destroyed. Thanks to well-organised fire departments, as well as voluntary fire associations, the fire has been localised, rehabilitated and shut down. However, farmers also organized their machinery, which went out on the ground because they were necessary. What's important about the laws that are on the agenda is that they have a good basis. I expect an exceptional and absolute application and, since I am getting older and trying to improve the system in the extraordinary divisions of these situations, I will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48941	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandra Jevtic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48942	Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which refers to the reduction of the risk of natural disasters. The catastrophic floods that hit us in 2014 on the territory of the Republic of Serbia have brought a very high risk of spreading infectious diseases. Teams that removed the dead animals and remains of animal feeders entered flooded areas in line with the recommendations of the Serbian Ministry of Emergency Sector and all of this in coordination between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Serbian Army and, of course, the municipal services. The teams consisted of veterinarians of veterinary institutes, colleges, as well as veterinarians specialized in the area of saving animals from flooded areas and taking care of them. More than 517 tonnes of dead animals and more than 332 tonnes of food of animal origin were removed from flooded areas. All dead animals' corpses were delayed in the somborus and indjia, and I wanted to point out that the specialized facilities are the best and most modern way of removing animal corpses and confiscats. In addition to solving this hygienic problem, it also produces nutritious animal origin that can be used further in animal nutrition, such as meat flour, meatmeal, and technical fat. The Cafilarium business is organised in such a way that the corpses are taken care of quickly, to provide a room where they will be lagered, and ultimately attention should be paid to the transport to the cafilarium itself. The best transport, i.e. safest, is carried out by container of freezers which can be disinfected. After the floods and disposal of the dead animals, a total recovery of the terrain was carried out. So there's been disinfection, disinfection, deratiation, and I'm going to do it a little bit more in the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48943	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48944	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, and this amendment refers to an earthquake, but I will not continue where I left off, but in the next amendment. I will pay attention to an earthquake that, by doing so, a successful company has caused yesterday and today, reactions to certain media, reactions to Twitter and seems to be reactions to those whose interests are at risk. A major telecommunications company Telecom Serbia, a.d., announced that it bought the second largest cable operator, Copernicus. Great. Good information, real information. "Telecom" as a large company, as a company that works in Republika Srpska, which works in the Republic of Montenegro and which is here the biggest telecommunications operator and, hopefully, a regional operator has done one good thing, bought another operator and seems to have endangered someone's interests and immediately react, even BIRN, through some foundation, public money for public interest, has asked the question – why, why buy it? It should, it should strengthen something that's a national treasure. The question now arises – what do telecommunications operators, cable operators buy? So there's nothing to sell. There isn't. We want to strengthen, position ourselves on the market. We also bought a Slovenian cable operator, which was mostly owned by Telecom in Republika Srpska and no one bothered. No one cared that the first cable operator sold to a Czech investment group a few months ago. But why "Telecom Serbia" to strengthen, for what? Thank you. I'll continue in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48945	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48946	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Minister, my amendment refers to the reduction of the consequences of the flood, which should be an integral part of Article 2. That's what we're supposed to give a special accent on everything we've been through. It is very important that this law relies on a national programme of risk management from natural disasters, as one of a set of all the experiences that we have been through, especially when it comes to the consequences of the 2014 floods and it is very important that these annual plans always contain six components. These components, in addition to the construction and development of the institutions themselves, which should also work on prevention, but also on the resolution of the consequences of not only floods but of all elemental disasters, should contain identification, monitoring of the risks themselves. So what happened in 2014 is what we are following today, and that is why we are adequately responsible and, of course, there are certain financial resources. There is an identification and monitoring of risks, as well as a structural and non-structured risk reduction, then early warning and disaster prevention systems, including floods, but one of the most important parts I think is the financial management strategy for emergency situations. We have therefore set up a mechanism with the assistance that we can withdraw from the funds in a certain way, and then we have introduced security from the risks themselves and, ultimately, the most important part, which relates to the state's partnership itself. Thus, through IPA funds, Serbia has withdrawn 22 projects worth more than 15 million and 700 000 euros, only in the period of solving our problems, when we are talking about emergency situations themselves. But it's important to say that out of these 22 projects, 10 were related exclusively to floods and they are worth 10 million and 300,000 euros. What's important is to say, these are cross-border cooperation programs. In voting day, I think it's very important that we all consider these amendments at all, whether they will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48947	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Tarbuk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48948	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Respected ministers Stefanovic and his associates, respected Serbian citizens, the consequences of natural disasters, technical and technological accidents, as well as the threat of the environment and the health of citizens are permanent security risks to the Republic of Serbia, its population and material goods. This risk can affect not only the territory of our country, but also the territory of neighbouring countries. It is necessary to put prevention at the centre of activity and to reduce the risk of disasters by law. The management of emergency situations will determine the competences in drawing up risk assessments, hazard assessments and plans for protection of areas in which there have been problems so far. The Republic of Serbia, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, showed a willingness to cope with the emergency situations that hit us a few years ago and faced all year round, due to abundant rainfall and unconscious treatment towards the environment. With this law, we will contribute as much as possible to the prevention of disasters and raising the level of preparedness in the event of necessary needs. I consider this law excellent and ask my fellow Members to support this law in the day of voting. Of course, if you have time and courage, support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48949	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Blaža Knezevic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) My fellow Prince, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48950	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, experience gained in the previous period, suggest that new normative solutions were needed, capacity improvements and upgrades of existing systems, i.e. removing inefficient systems. The bill puts first the principles that should contribute to a more successful prevention of disasters. Also, from the point of view of how the level of organisation and responsibility of headquarters for emergency situations work, individual emergency headquarters at the level of local self-government have not responded adequately and have not carried out any preparatory or operational activities. And as I said, the citizens of Šapca remember that the irresponsible city government, led by Dusan Petrovic, left them at the mercy of the flood wave. And that's why the Shapcans, a little through the trouble, and little in the joke say that the floods took one Petrovic mayor, and threw out another, Nebojsa Zelenovic, who, along with Dusan Petrovic, since 2014 has been fatal in another way, been fatal to Sabac. And imagine, they are directly conveying the disgraceful address of Nebojska Zelenovic in Strasbourg against their country by destroying Šapac and the attacks on their country of praise, so local television by Dusan Petrovic directly conveys the shameful address of Nebojska Zelenovic in Strasbourg against his country. Since colleagues have said a lot in previous exhibitions, they are aware: the state of Serbia is a country in which laws are respected, so no speeches, attacks and humiliation of its country abroad can free up responsibility for what has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48951	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Kostic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nogo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48952	Regarding the elemental disasters and today's afternoon discussion that I had with Minister Stefanovic, I would like to get ahead of myself, and this is about happening in the village of Rakita. The answer you gave, and regarding having to trust in the court, in the prosecution, in the application of the law, and not to take matters into our own hands, as you have stated, is something all the authorities have been telling us for 30 years, especially for the last 18 years -- let's trust the prosecution, let's rely on the court, you know, have some laws. But the laws don't always apply. The laws don't keep going on in this country and the court and the prosecution don't keep doing their job. The court and the D.A. are someone who's covering up and allowing everything that's happening to us. So it's Gordi's knot and heart of crime and corruption, and politicians, of course, have an interest in maintaining that state in the prosecution and in the court, because they know they won't be held accountable tomorrow, and they have to cut it off. So that the necessary defense that remains for the citizens is unfortunately something that seems to be waiting for us to be a reality because you politicians, or we politicians, primarily have no courage to do what needs to be done and must be taken to apply the law in this country. You've been well aware today that there's often been laws being passed with the goal that something that's illegal can be implemented, so we're in a big problem. I'd like to look back on one more thing. I just got a letter from Milovan Ivić's mother. It's about another law that's on the agenda. In early May, there is a reasonable doubt that Milovana Ivic killed police with excessive force. I'll give you these materials and please look at these photos that are very shocking and postmortem. I only have black white now, Mr. Minister. I will press the Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad more with regard to the case if all this is being examined, but it could be the IAI's control to deal with the operation of 4.5.2018, it's Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48953	Word has minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48954	I'm not familiar with the case, but I'd like you to send it to the D.A.'s office and the Internal Affairs Department anyway. Let's get it all checked out. That's the principle we stand for. What is problematic is that you and your party is in a group that now belongs to a group of people just like you said, who have passed laws that allow them to act against the law. First of all, in the privatisation of companies in Serbia, the company, destroying our economic substance. That's what they do in a way that they're later unpunished. They passed laws, I don't say it personally, but still today the Dvora belong to a group of parties with Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Dusan Petrovic, all those people who destroyed us in a commercial sense, destroyed our society. We've had a situation that we've lost an hour of jobs. Four hundred thousand people have no chance of working in this country. So, these people are out of anything. But what's worse, what's been passed such a law that you, through privatisation, could have entered the business of privatization of the company, not fulfilled the privatisation obligation, to dissipate that company, to sell out, to fire the workers, and then, as a result, was the termination of the privatisation contract, then to the state the wreck from the company that was originally, the workers on the street, and those who formally bought it somewhere in the white world, and nothing to anyone. Eat the donkey wolf as the people say. The problem is that you are now accepting a group with these people, and it is that these are the people who passed the laws to be legally impunity later on for the actions they had. I don't know what I'm more worried about or Mr. Obradovic's Eurofanatism, that's two things that make me the most of it. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48955	Knees Nogo, you do not have the right to reply, because either the MP group or your MP party has been mentioned, you are not You don't. [[Srjan Nogo: I have the right to replica.]] I'm just explaining. (Srdian Nogo: he misread me. ) No, the minister interpreted you perfectly, you are neither the president of the parliamentary group nor his deputy, and therefore you do not have the right to reply. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48956	Mr. Arsic, I cannot formally argue that this amendment has been found in the assembly procedure. I don't know if you've paid attention to Mr. Minister and I'm asking you to react, too, because this group of Westerners, who sells and betrays Serbia on the orders of their Western mentors, is not there, are probably all learning against this Zelenovic and what he's saying now on the Council of Europe. I must tell you, there is a colleague of Radeta, we have been Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for six or seven years. Anyone who comes and takes with them a group of people and has the opportunity to muddle their country, be sure to do so according to the instructions of someone who stands behind it and you know very well that in this case at a clear signal of certain Western countries and mentors and Zelenovic and Djilas, Jeremic and others, it is done to destabilise Serbia. This amendment of theirs, my colleague Arsic, which is why I am reporting under Article 107 in the most harsh way insults this country's dignity. Because, first of all, by erasing this attitude, 2 does not allow everyone to be protected from the consequences of the disaster, and the second one introduces a very dangerous term. They also want the word "regional" to be added after the words "local". What does that really mean? Well, that fits well in this story of Sulejman Ugljanin and his coalition partner, still your partner in the government, Rasim Ljajic, that Sandzak should get his country, which Ugljanin advocates, and I will remind you, fellow SNS MPs, and you ministers Stefanovic, that these are very serious and dangerous statements. He said if Sandzak, who occupied Serbia in 912, would be the state would recognise Kosovo tomorrow. So I would ask you, Mr Stefanovic, because you have the opportunity and time to follow this amendment, and I say again to those who are also with Ljajic and Ugljanin in the 2000 coalitions, not present in the hall, to interpret this amendment and their insistence on some regionality, because it is very, very serious and dangerous for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48957	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. I am truly sorry, but I cannot break the Rules of Procedure here on whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives decides. (National Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws without a microphone. Insulting? So now, really in our legal system I don't see regions, I know about those economics. (Alexander Martinovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Here is a colleague of Martinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48958	I'm suggesting a violation of article 27. The Serbian Progressive Party just yesterday was the first here in the National Assembly to point out that Sulejman Ugljanin's statement on Sandzak as some future republic, on the territory that Serbia occupied in 1912, about Serbia as a fascist no-one. We first convicted that statement yesterday. We consider it war-hoofed, we find it unacceptable, anti-civilization and, of course, highly incorrect. Because even people like Suleiman Ugljanin should know that they cannot be a fascist state where democratic elections are held. The state of Serbia has funded elections for national councils of national minorities. The state of Serbia itself has shown by adopting a law on the National Council of National Minorities that it is a democratic state. Where good luck that such a practice exists in certain countries in the region, where Serbs live under very difficult circumstances, which I hope is very well known to you. So, I don't think you need to impute any SNS related to Suleiman's statement. After all, the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic said it was one statement by an irresponsible politician and that absolutely no one will be allowed, nor will Sulejman Ugljanin, regardless of being a member of a certain national, or religious group, or minority, to split any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What SNS policy is, it is summed up and sublimed in a statement by Alexander Vukic, that he will open works on the construction of Novi Pazar-Tutin road in a few days. So, that's what this... (Srjan Nogo: Time! ) Have you learned this from Bosko Obradović? When you don't know what else, then time. So, I'm finishing up Mr. Nogo, I see you're very nervous, I don't know why, because you don't have a coordinator or because you don't have these MPs yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48959	You're bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48960	I'm done. So we open the way to Novi Pazar-Tutin, that is, works on building the road of Novi Pazar-Tutin. It's SNS policy. So new roads, new traffic, new investments, new jobs, a better life for both Serbs and Bosniaks. It is a policy that is sustainable and has the support of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48961	About the same answer as a colleague, Jovanovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48962	Article 27(1) I, every time, in the last few days when I hear the time or time, is simply creeping myself out, immediately comes to mind this "Vakat is" coalition, which looks like it's going to go into a joint post-election coalition with Suleiman Ugljanin and I'm wondering again, today I'm publicly asking, what's the time, what's "Vakat" for, and therefore I'm asking my fellow Members, and also the chairman, don't use it anymore, we all look at it in an hour and we see when we have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48963	I'm saying -- you bring the end, I don't mention that definition, I'm just saying -- you bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48964	Here, so it's right. Mr. Martinovic told the truth. Yes, it is true that he was the first, even the first to mention yesterday what Suleiman Ugljanin brought to Novi Pazar at their joint rally with the "Vakat je" coalition. Of course, nothing is disputed about what he said, it is terrible what is happening to us, that there are citizens of Serbia such as this Ugljanin who was even part of the government that talks about fascist Serbia. I don't know how he could have been part of the government in such a Serbia, he'd probably have forgotten what he said the other day once again. But I'd really love to, and we'd love to, Mr. Martinovic, for you to be specific. You said what Mr. Wolf said, we heard it, but somehow the situation changed from yesterday to today. Now, I almost told the time, that time came to create this coalition of the Bosniak National Council and the question that we are trying to get an answer today, if Rasim LJajic and this "Vakat is" coalition, the group, went to coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, for which Serbia is a fascist state, would you ask the Prime Minister to replace Rasim Ljajic from the assembly majority, and do you think it is possible that someone who supports the the the thesis that Serbia is a fascist state can be vice president or minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48965	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I don't want to make a statement. You don't want to, all right. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48966	The President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, said first of all that he was ready to defend the Serbian government ministers who had never defended him personally, and then when his brother and father and other family members and son were mentioned here, but that he was ready to defend the integrity of every minister, including Minister Rasim Ljajic, because there is no knowledge, as there is no knowledge that Interior Minister Rasim Ljajic is the leader, as you said, of some drug cartel in Serbia. As for the coalition, the possible coalition of Rasim Ljajic and Sulejman Ugljanin in the Bosniak National Council, as they call it, I simply want to remind you and the citizens of Serbia of what national councils are. So, national councils don't run the foreign policy of this country, national councils don't have the right to deal with the borders of the Republic of Serbia, national councils don't have the right to do any of what Sulejman Ugljanin said. Of course, we all condemn a completely unvulnerable statement that Serbia is a fascist state. The National Council, whoever makes it in Novi Pazar, will have to work in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. it will have to deal with those issues that have been put into the jurisdiction of these bodies by the Law on National Minorities Councils of National Minorities. So now let them make a coalition with whoever they want, it is the right of those who participated in the elections, but to have someone tear up a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to call Serbia and the Serb people fascist, to threaten to break off any part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia will not allow anyone, nor Sulejman Ugljanin, or anyone else. There's, I mean, politics and SNS's stance completely clear. So, sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia we will defend in every part of its territory, including, of course, that area that the Bosniaks call Sandzak, we call it Raška or Raško-Polim area, formally and legally it is the Raški administrative district, but in any case, there is no secession of Serbia, there is no division of its territory, and the Bosniak National Council will have to work in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48967	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48968	Article 107. In what Mr. Martinovic said, I really experienced something as an insult, so, for God's sake, not just the National Assembly, but more than that. As for the position that the ruling coalition, i.e. that the government will defend the sovereignty and integrity of the Serbian state, in this you have absolute support of the SRS and we will always defend our state and state sovereignty and its integrity and there is nothing disputed. But, of course, there are regulations that regulate the functioning and the authority of national councils, but it's kind of offensive that you think that Rasim Ljajic can make a coalition with whoever he wants. Of course, anyone can make a coalition with whoever they want, but that makes the post of Deputy Prime Minister a coalition with Sulejman Ugljanin, who called Serbia fascist, of course, not Serbia to become fascist because Sulejman Ugljanin called it and he will not endanger the integrity of the state by that statement, but it is simply inappropriate, at least, that someone who is a member of the government will be in a coalition with someone who says that Serbia is a fascist creature. It is absolutely inadmissible, regardless of the constitutionally guaranteed right that anyone can and can think and speak etc. We don't argue with that, but if some part of the government is part of the government, he still has to take care of it, you know the people, who you're with, that's who you're with. Everyone will say: If this Rasim supports the Coal of Carbon, he is just like him. And you from the government, you from the ruling coalition have to be the one to cut and say – Rasim, or you're out of that coalition or you're out of government. It just doesn't go together either way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48969	My colleague Mijatovic, on what grounds? (Milorad Mijatovic: Replica. ( ) Since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you cannot get the right to replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48970	You know, we've been responding for two days to lies, lies, plantings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48971	Just tell me what member he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48972	Article 106, associated with Article 108. By bearing lies, constantly saying, imputing something, that something will be done by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which is a party at the Serbian state level, I keep stressing, a state-run party that did not directly participate in the elections, and assuming what it will be, you will allow it to be at the level of some witchcraft and I do not know what, what this party is otherwise prone to. Therefore, we have made it very clear that we have condemned Sulejman Ugljanin's statement, done by Rasim Ljajic, we have done so here in the Assembly and, be assured, we stand behind those words and we will always stand, unlike some others who change their attitudes. Another thing I want to point out, we're talking politics, we're not going back in time, we're talking about politics where Serbia is now. We want peace, we want Sandzak or Raška area to advance, to make these people feel Serbia, Serbia is their country and we keep stressing it. Serbia is a country and Serbs and Bosniaks and all, and that is exactly what we want and within this coalition we are doing it. You won't stop us there. We're looking forward to finally making the way of the New Market Tutin. I must say right away – we are a party that is at the level of the Serbian state and don't just tie us to that part. And what you're going to do, I mean this party that's on my right, I'm not interested in right now. I really can't answer these questions anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48973	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48974	Article 27 has been injured. SNS policy is a style between Serbs and Muslims, i.e. Serbs and Bosniaks. I don't think there are politicians on Serbia's political scene in the last few decades who have invested more energy to achieve harmony and understanding between Serbs and Bosniaks, from Aleksandr Vukic. I don't mean just those Bosniaks living in Serbia, I mean Bosniaks from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And by sacrificing his life by going to Srebrenica, Aleksandar Vukic confirmed it in the best possible way. I can understand you as an opposition party, you look at this problem from a single angle, we look from the point of view of someone who bears the greatest responsibility for the conduct of state policy, and as we want permanent harmony and peace with the Bosniaks, we also want permanent harmony and peace with the Hungarians. I think we have, as a national minority, even with Hungary as their home state, the best possible relationship in the last few decades. I think it is important for the state of Serbia to have good relations with its neighbours, especially with countries whose members are largely represented as members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. I just want to remind you of one more thing, Suleiman Ugljanin has led the Bosniak National Council so far. Although he claims he won this election, he now has fewer members of the council than he had before. Earlier, he could rule the Bosniak National Council on his own, and now he needs a coalition partner. I think it's already saying that the political mood in that part of Serbia is changing, in the sense that the people who live there are starting to understand the politics of Alexander Vukic and SNS well, which is peace, stability and what we need above all, both Serbs and Bosniaks, Hungarians, it's economic development, it's new jobs, it's a better standard of living, it's a normal and decent state that all its citizens, whether they are Serbs or members of national minorities, will experience as their own country and as their homeland.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-06-0.u48975	Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. I thank you. We finish today's work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
