ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-29-0.u44443	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I'm waiting for the system to synchronise. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall. Can we get the number so you don't pull the cards out until I read exactly how many people are present? I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Today, he officially informed me that he would be prevented from attending MP Dusko Tarbuk. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The vote will now continue to be led by Vice-President Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-29-0.u44444	I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the title of the bill submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the title of the bill tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dejan Šulkic and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the four Members of Parliament of the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of Ružica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanija Kompirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovica Jeftic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1, with an amendment, submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I am closing the vote: for – six, – no one with abstentions – is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 1 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: no one, against it, has any abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Ivkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were tabled by the four MPs of the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Gorica Gajic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr. Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radovan Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to Article 3, in the same text, which was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet and the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on Article 2 which was submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belacic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to vote, with a correction, on article 3 submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 which was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3, which was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on article 3 submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 which was submitted by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 3 which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote, with a correction, on Article 3 submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by the four MPs of the Parliament group "Club of Independent Members". I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marjana Marash. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Paunovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by six MPs of the Dveri Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by seven MPs of the Parliament Group "Enough". I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 which have been tabled by the Members of the People's Parliament. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one who has endured it for—nine, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – there is no one who is sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is sustained for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – there is no one who is sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, four, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who has endured it for—nine, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who has endured it for—four against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for two, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, four, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Djordje Milicevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for two, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Joseph Broz. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for two, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for two, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are sustained. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, supported – has. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, four, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for two, against—there is no one who has endured it. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one, for one, against—no one who is sustained—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Blado Babic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zarko Bagatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, which, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mikhailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Sandra Christmas. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Goran Pekarski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Milan Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Milosav Milojevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Goran Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Boban Birmancevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by the MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Mikeic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Radmilo Kostic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 5, which was tabled by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by LJibuška Lakatoš. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Ana Karadzic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Vladimir Orlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by the MP Tiana Davidovac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dragana Barisic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Radoslav Cokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Zivan Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Mirko Krlic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Serbiaslav Filipovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marko Atlagic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the MP of the people, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marko Parezenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Vlado Babic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dragana Kostic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Borka Grubor. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ivana Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Milena Turk. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Zarko Micin. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Vesna Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 5, which was tabled by MP Sonja Vlahovic, I am concluding the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by MP Stanislav Janosevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Jovica Jevtic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Bojan Torbica. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Branko Popovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Snezana Petrovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5, which was submitted by the MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dragan Savkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Blaža Knezevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Radovan Jancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Vera Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Radoslav Jovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ognjen Pantovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by the MP, Mr Igor Becic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Jelena Mijatovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by the MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Milovan Dracun. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Oliver Ognjanovic. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Milija Miletic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Zoran Bojanic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ana Čaapić. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by MP Miodrag Lint. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Olivera Pesic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5 tabled by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote tabled by MP Goran Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by the MP-in-law. Dr Branimir Rancic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Mladen Lukic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Jovan Palalic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 5th vote, which was tabled by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 6 tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 9 which, in the same text, was tabled by MP Vjerica Radet, seven MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group, four MPs of the Parliament group and the Club of Deputies, together MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and seven MPs of the Parliament group "There was enough". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 9 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic, five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party and 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 9 which have been tabled by five MPs of the Parliament Group "Free Members". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament's "Club of Independent MPs". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11, which was tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 11, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 12 tabled by the MP Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 13 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 14 which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, five MPs of the SDS Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Mirjana Dragas. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by seven MPs of the Parliament Group "Enough". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment to the vote on Article 19, which, in the same text, was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj, five MPs of the SDS Parliamentary Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 36, which, in the same text, tabled five Members of Parliament of the SDS Group, the People's Party and four MPs of the Parliament Group "Club of Independent Members". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to the vote on Article 37, which, in the same text, has been tabled by four MPs of the Parliament's "Club of Independent Members" and seven MPs of the "There has been enough". I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 37, which was tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 37 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 41, which were tabled by the four MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 41 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41, which was tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 43, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 43, which was tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 44 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 49 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 49, which was tabled by 13 MPs of the DS Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled by seven MPs of the Dveri Parliament Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 53rd vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled by seven MPs of the Parliament Group "Enough". I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Parliament Group "Free Members". I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on article 53, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to article 54, which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to Article 55, which, in the same text, have been submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and Ivan Bauer, who are scheduled to enter into force the next day since the day of their publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – none, abstention – one of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – none of the abstentions – one of the 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2018, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – there is no one with abstention – among the 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one, with abstention, of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, which have been tabled by 14 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 6 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic and 14 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 8, which has been tabled by 14 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 8, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 9th vote, which was tabled by 14 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was tabled by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 14 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marina Ristic and five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 14, which has been tabled by 14 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 14 which have been tabled by five MPs from the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 16th Amendments, which, in the same text, were submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Belačić and the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by 14 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 17, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 17, which has been tabled by the five MPs of the Free Members Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were submitted in the same text by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic, five MPs of the SDS, NS and 14 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 19 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 20 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you he's a member of 22. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education provides that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for— 130, against—no one, abstentioned—one, of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – there is no one with abstention – among the 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on professions of special interest for the Republic of Serbia and conditions for their implementation, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one, the abstentioned, of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 1 in the same text, which was jointly tabled by Members of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Rade and Aleksandra Belačić, and five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to Article 2, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by the MPs Natas Jovanovic and Aleksandar Seselj, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 3, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by the MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Filip Stojanovic and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendment to article 4, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by MPs Sreto Peric and Momcilo Mandic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to vote on Article 5, in the same text, tabled together by the MPs Marina Ristic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 6, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by the MPs Nemanja Sarović and Dubravko Bojic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendment to article 7, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by MPs Zoran Despotovic and Miljan Damjanovic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 8, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by the MPs Milorad Mirčić and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 9, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by MPs Petar Jojic and Bozidar Delic, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote of the amendment on Article 10, in the same text, which was jointly tabled by MPs Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenović, and five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I conclude the vote: no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on professions of special interest for the Republic of Serbia and conditions for their implementation in general. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of the total of 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on professions of special interest for the Republic of Serbia and conditions for their implementation. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vojislav Seselj, at a session on 21 September 2018, at 10 o'clock and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 21 September 2018, at 16 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 108(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on 21 September 2018, at 16 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 24 September 2018, at 12 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 24 September 2018, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 106, 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 24 September 2018, at 13 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 24 September 2018, at 19 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 September 2018, at 10 o'clock and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 September 2018, at 11 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic, at a session on 26 September 2018, at 11 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 September 2018, at 12 hours and 4 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 27 September 2018, at 14 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 28 September 2018, at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the two who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Serbian Filipovic, at a session on 28 September 2018, at 12 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. The session is over 12.30 hours. )
