ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in light of this debate that has been going on for four days in the National Assembly where pensions are being discussed, and how much of the state of Serbia has had to save in order not to go bankrupt, etc., some 800m euros that the Republic of Serbia has thus saved, so I am interested in the light of the austerity policy, how does the Government of the Republic of Serbia explain the fact that six months after the end of Serbia's term, Tomislav Nikolic, continues to use the luxury residence in Užička number 23, which is foreseen for the presidents of the Republic, when it is no longer in office? Data coming to the public says it costs more than 5,000 euros a month, plus bills, plus staff, etc. Why are all the money being spent and why is Tomislav Nikolic still using the state residence? Also, nothing happened in the affair with Dragica Nikolic's foundation. Why did the prosecution and the MUP not react to the inscription that it was more than 12m euros in embezzlement? I also refer the parliamentary question to the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, will he retain as Tomislav Nikolic, his residence in which he now lives and will it be a practice for all others who are elected to the post? Also, the main political issues over the past seven years, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, where the dialogue conducted under the UN Security Council moved seven years ago to Brussels to the EU, I am curious why the Republic of Serbia agrees to negotiate with Kosovo Albanians with the EU, which has already recognised independence as such. "Republic of Kosovo"? In order for us to be able to protect Serbia's national interest and the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, we should probably include those great forces, those countries that are permanent members of the Security Council that have not recognised Kosovo's independence and which provide full support to Serbia in an effort to keep Kosovo under its sovereignty, which is the NKK and the Russian Federation. Why is it negotiating with the EU asking Serbia to recognise Kosovo's independence in order to continue towards the path of European integration and will it be the price of EU membership? We have seen, the President of the Republic has made a statement to Reuters almost how if we sign a comprehensive agreement with Pristina that we need a guarantee that we will become members of the EU in 2025. Whoever guarantees us that when all these people who represent the Brussels administration today are no longer at these posts, some new ones will come. Who remembers those people who represented the EU seven years ago? So, in order to preserve our territory, our people living in Kosovo, I urge the President of the Republic to call on representatives of the Russian Federation and representatives of the NKK as soon as possible, thus showing that Serbia is not ready to reconcile with the occupation and independence of the so-called "Republic of Kosovo".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43663	The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43664	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will refer a few questions to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, and it concerns his latest statements on the SNS's main committee. I'll quote a few statements. One, among other things, which is -- my policy for Serbia to keep a lot in KIM has suffered defeat because Serbs love to lose everything, Aleksandar Vukic said, the first round won Serbia's downfall and Serbia that loves to cry and lose everything. In the same round, Sonja Biserko, various NGOs, Sava Janjic, Rada Trajkovic and false Serbian nationalists, whose policy is that we have nothing in Kosovo, but that KIM has in fairy tales and myths, among other things, says Aleksandar Vukic. With that in mind, I ask for clarification from Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and I ask a few questions. These are questions that should be, lucky, and this National Assembly to direct him. The first and basic question is – what authority of Alexander Vukic to establish and lead the country's policy on behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the policy towards KIM? 'Cause, Article 12. Serbia's eight-point constitution clearly and unequivocally determines the responsibilities of the president of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly show that it is not his responsibility to lead the country's policy and also politics towards KIM, but that these are the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this National Assembly. So who gave him the right to usurp constitutional powers of the National Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The second question is: who authorized Alexander Vukic to, in his capacity as President of the Republic, in talks with numerous international representatives, as well as representatives of separatist authorities in Pristina, propose an idea to divide KIM and distinguish with Kosovo-Methochian Albanians? I remind Alexander Vukic of Article 8. Serbia's constitution, which reads - the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, the border of the Republic of Serbia is invulnerable and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. I also remind Alexander Vukic that, when he entered into office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, here in this House of the National Assembly, he took an oath, whose first part of the text reads – I swear that I will dedicate all my forces to the preservation of the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija, as its component. I also remind Aleksandar Vukic that not all Serbia, one claims, is a crying, loser who lives in myths, etc., and another winner and successful, which he allegedly leads. There is one Constitution and the laws governing Serbia with KIM in its composition and all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, including the President of the Republic, must strictly adhere to them, not to the idea of bringing their private ideas to the job of state officials. Both of these questions, of course, I ask all these questions, and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court, the competent prosecutors. So, I expect an answer why don't they react to this open breach of the Constitution by the President of the Republic of Serbia? Also, at the very end, I want to ask Alexander Vukic - why has all this time been misleading the public that the borders at the administrative crossings between Serbia and AP KiM, as he has recently liked to say, the borders between Serbs and Serbs, set in 2011, when facts say something else? It is true that in 2011, separatist authorities from Pristina sent units to Rosa to try to establish a border there and that for a full year and a few days the people there were at barricades. It is true that the previous government started the negotiations in Brussels and that Borko Stefanovic accepted part of the agreement on so-called "the". The integrated transition management, but it is also quite true that the implementation of the agreement and the border was made in December 2012, more precisely on December 10th 2012, when we all had the opportunity to see on television with the national frequency, where Serbian Government official Pavicevic, who otherwise in the office in Pristina, praised how, behold, Serbia finally managed to realise that part of the agreement. So the border was implemented and appointed by representatives of the government led by Ivica Dacic, whose vice president was Aleksandar Vukic. So, I'm surprised why the first vice president intends to deceive the public in that sense?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43665	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43666	Thank you, dear President of the Assembly. I would like to ask a few questions, specifically for southeastern Serbia, for the development of the southeast of Serbia, as far as tourism is concerned. I'd like to ask another question to the competent ministry about the road that goes from Svrlig to the Old Mountain, where there are a really large number of passengers coming to the Old Mountain, where we have a big problem with Internet uncovered, mobile phone, so my question is directed – when in that part mobile telephony, relays are going to be done, that at any time passengers, future tourists coming to the Old Mountain, and going over Svrlig, where the road is really done the most modern, where there are a large number of beautiful destinations where people can come and try quality food, healthy food, to do the Internet, to have mobile telephony and to finally all those who want to go from Nis, through Svrlig to the Old Mountain, that they can have freedom, at any moment, to call their own, to send pictures, to see the beauty of our region? I always say Srljig is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia. The old mountain is the most beautiful thing. The hotel's director, Mr. Karadzic, advocates with all his heart that all capacities be put into operation, but now we need a little help covering it with mobile phone, the Internet. And here, there are interested companies that do things like that. For example, one of them is "Exe Net", which he himself offered to make on every ten, 15km, an Internet tree, where at any time people can use it for needs, what's most important, to be heard with their own and to show pictures and information and from Svrljjig, Književci, Sokobanja, Nis, to the Old Mountain. That's very important for all of us who live there, and that's a pretty big problem, and the problem that was most important to us and it's done, and that's the approach that goes from Svrlig to the Old Mountain. Another issue in this part, as regards the development of economy and agriculture, is whether it will continue, that is the Ministry without portfolio, Mr. Krkobic, will it continue with the trend of the development of cooperative society? Because we are witnessing that through various cooperatives, we have a great chance of developing our agriculture and developing southeast Serbia, where through association, through cooperative, through the stimulation of the state of Serbia, we have the opportunity to develop both livestock and the production of medicinal plants and all other agricultural production, because only by association we have a chance to bring back the smile to our agricultural producers living in southeastern Serbia. One more thing, it's also very important to me, since I am from Srlig, but Nis is the center for me. And, here, tomorrow, it's for all of us living in southeastern Serbia very important, tomorrow the promise Mr. Vukic said is fulfilled and it's the best thing for all of us living there. Two companies open tomorrow. One of these companies is "Cumtobel", a company that produces ice lighting. It's the strongest and strongest ice lighting company to employ over 300 people at first. Another company, a Filipino company called Imi, is doing auto parts, which will employ over 1,500 people for the next two or three years. For all of us who live there, it is located near our municipality of Svrljig, in the section towards Niška Banja, for all of us who live there, it is the involvement of new jobs and this way that Mr. Vukic said, promised, and now ends this promise, tomorrow will be the opening, so Nis will have the opportunity to work. Most importantly, it will employ people who are highly educated, people who will give tomorrow the opportunity to express their knowledge they learned in college. Nis really is a university town. I can tell, I am from Srlig, but Nis is in my heart and Nisglia. And as President of the USS, I would like to thank our President Vukic, who, with his engagement, puts a major emphasis on developing southeast Serbia, developing small municipalities, developing Nis, as the centre of southeast Serbia. Once again, I would like to congratulate all of our Orthodox believers today, it is the glory of Baptism. It's a big day for all of us, it's a red letter, and I want health, happiness, success, and this year it's born and noble, both in the field and in the house.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43667	Jovan Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43668	Thank you. My questions are motivated by the exhibition "Art Waiting for Justice" which will open in just over an hour in the Assembly. Namely, this exhibition will show the replicas of art paintings stolen on October 5th during the invasion of the people into this building, noting that every crime deserves a conviction. The obvious goal of this exhibition is to show that October 5th was a criminal enterprise and that a particularly rehabilitated government that led the country to ruin, whose accounts we are paying today. That very October 5th was the cry of Serbian citizens for justice, a cry that unfortunately was short of breath and reach, and due to the failed expectations today, but deep in the 21st century, we remain in a vicious cycle of poverty, lies and hopelessness. With this, our citizens continue to wait for justice, and because of the absence of justice, we, as a society, degrade and gradually part ways. Speaking of art, I ask the question of Minister Vukosavljevic – will justice be welcomed, for example, by those who are severely violated by copyright in the competition of the Ministry of Culture? Another question for the culture minister – will the authors, just banned film "Mezica" welcome justice? Producer Svetozar Cvetkovic said the film cannot continue shooting in normal conditions even though the funds were approved last year, an obvious example of censorship. A question for Minister Mihajlovic and Belgrade Mayor, who left the city to others, will justice be welcomed by residents of Toplica's wedding, where city authorities two days ago, without proper permits, along with the accompanying charade, began yet another cadic concreteisation of Belgrade, such as the "Bood on Water" or in Slavia? Just two hours after Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic's statement that a building permit for this venture exists, a statement came from the Ministry of Urbanism that the Transport Secretariat, as an investor, was giving up the requirement to perform reconstruction works on Toplic's wreath, while the trees had already been cut and excavation started. The question, also, for Ministerial Mihajlovic – will justice be welcomed by the unjustly accused CIP engineers for the destruction of the supporting wall in the Grdelička gorge, i.e. will justice be welcomed by the citizens of Serbia by someone finally taking responsibility for this construction failure, as well as many other failures? A question for the environment minister – will justice be welcomed by citizens who are struggling to protect water resources, such as the Old Mountain or the Sava Nasip? A question for Ministerial Kuburovic and Minister Stefanovic – will justice be welcomed by owners of illegally destroyed facilities in Sava Mali? A question for Minister Djordjevic and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic – will justice be welcomed by the families and future mothers who, by law on financial support for families with children, are being discriminated against by the reduction of leave of work fees? I ask this question as the father of two small children, one of two years, the second of four and a half months, since I have faced shameful administrative procedures, through which families go through. A question for the Minister of Education – will justice be welcomed by those who demand that academic honesty be respected, that is, the removal of false diplomas and PhDs? The question for Minister Djordjevic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic – will justice be welcomed by our oldest citizens who have earned their pensions fairly, or will they be returned to what they have been kidnapped against, so that they can live their old age with so much dignity, and not as falsely as to imagine that after returning pensions to the level before the reduction, they will be greater than ever? A question for the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Sinisha Mali – will justice be welcomed by those who have been illegally kidnapped? Finally, but not last, a question for the President of the Republic – will justice be welcomed by Oliver Ivanovic's family, or will his murder finally be resolved, as promised? Finally, the prime minister's question - what does the government intend to do to remove numerous obstacles to achieving the declared strategic goal of EU membership? Namely, the European Parliament's report in Serbia reached the final stage of production and the MPs of the Foreign Affairs Committee agreed on 27 amendments to the draft text of the resolution, which was previously submitted by rapporteur David McAllister. It is clear from these amendments that the foundations of our country are being questioned, it points to unfair electoral conditions and not transparency of funding political parties, election campaigns, discrimination against opposition politicians, politicisation of the judiciary, the threat of freedom of expression and independent media, insufficient protection of workers' rights, especially women and young people, etc. Compared to that, the amendments, which speak in praise of Serbia, primarily regarding technical areas, the EU's accession, as well as the country's constructive relationship to peace missions and international police and judicial co-operation, seem to be acting palely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43669	Thank you. Before I give the next speaker my thanks to the MP for mentioning the exhibition that will be opened here in the hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at 12 o'clock, called "Art waiting for justice". I call, therefore, for all MPs to come to the opening or later, in accordance with their obligations, to take a look at this valuable exhibition that speaks of missing images in the October 5th events, I still see no political message, but a desire for all of us to work together to find this missing treasure that belongs neither to the past nor to this regime, nor to any future one, but belongs to the citizens of Serbia. So thank you for assessing it in your own way and mentioning it in your speech, and for seeing it only through political glasses, not something that's happening all over the world, where everyone in the world is looking for their cultural heritage to come back to them today. Thank you for reminding me to invite all MPs to this truly significant exhibition. (Milorad Mircic: Answer this question for the culture minister. ) If the question had been asked to me, I would certainly have answered seriously, but I was not asked the question. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43670	Thank you, President. I'm asking my first question to Health Minister Zlatibor Lonchar. Some 350 children under 19 years of age have cancer in Serbia, and about 50 die. Their treatment, of course, is being followed by their parents, they've been watching over them for days, but the main problem is that they're getting little compensation for sickness and illness is limited. So if they go to sick leave because of their child's illness, they don't get 100% of the sick, they get 65% of the salary, and it can only last four months, and sometimes shorter. With the transitional solution that has been included in the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, it is to extend the stay to six months and make up for 100%. That's how parents got sick and got along in some way, but that solution hasn't happened yet. The national association of children suffering from cancer has proposed amendments to the Health Insurance Act five years ago. So for five years, you've been waiting for something to get in line and that law to come to the agenda. I ask the Minister of Health Zlatibor Lončar – when will he take concrete measures to facilitate the parents' fight with cancer and the disease of their children, when will this law come on the agenda and what will this Health Insurance Act look like, or will parents get 100% compensation for six months of sick leave? I would like to ask the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic. In June, the Serbian Parliament adopted an amendment to the amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and the Bill on Official Use of Language and Letters, which stipulates that every MP in the Assembly will be able to speak in his native language. To this day, we do not have the conditions to speak in our own languages, which I think would be good for our National Assembly, because multilingualism in Serbia needs to be demonstrated by the EU that we are seeking. By doing so, the wealth that already exists in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina would be transferred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I ask the presidents – when will the conditions for members of the national minorities to speak in their native languages? I ask the third question to the Ministry of Education Mladena Sarčević, and it concerns translation of documents for schools that teach in the languages of national minorities. The alleged "Employment Review" sends national advice in PDF form of testimony, student books, home books, journals to translate from Serbian into the languages of national minorities in schools where teaching is performed in the languages of national minorities. Years, since 2015, 2016, 2017 and this year, no one has paid the translators the job. The "National Review" from year to year says he is not obliged to pay for those translations, but only to print those documents, and the Ministry of Education is not giving any funding to national councils for the translation of these documents. I ask Minister Mladen Sarčević if he will channel the funds for the translation of these documents to national councils or schools, or if he already finds some way to compensate those translators for work that is not easy at all? I repeat, all these documents are coming to PDF and there's no one who can do it, people who know the good language of the environment, the language of the national minority in the school where the teaching is done. The presidents of the National Council Education Committee spoke several times with the State Secretarys at the Ministry of Education, and these state secretaries said year after year that the budget does not actually have the means to translate documents into the languages of national minorities. I ask Minister Sarčević if and how will he solve this situation and pay the translators the translation of documents for those years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43671	Thank you. The next one is Marija Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43672	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is for the Minister of Health, Mr Loncar and the Mayor of Belgrade – when will the children in Rusnje get the opportunity to be treated? When will he get his pediatrician? At the House of Health in Rusnja, Director Biljana Jeremic pointed out a notice informing parents that their children in that health home can be treated on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and if they accidentally get sick on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, health care can be sought in Zarkov. As a result, great crowds and children are simply returned, and they are not shown basic medical care, because the examination is not scheduled or because there are simply many doctors, those who do their duty, are not able to examine all children. This is why tonight, in front of the House of Health in Rusnje, at 6:00, there will be protests and I call on all citizens of Belgrade to join, as well as all MPs, either from the opposition or from the authorities, because unfortunately this regime understands only that language, language of protest and when citizens show unity, then, in some ways, we come to a solution. It is really important for me to have the mayor of Belgrade, Mr. Radojicic, publicly say that he really believes that it is enough for the children in September to offer New Year's lighting, not books, school equipment and elementary health care? I also want to know what the health minister is going to say about what we don't have pediatricians? Is this about what specialists doctors are going across the border? He personally replied that no one in Serbia is keeping track of how many of our specialized doctors are leaving to work abroad. The second question is asked by Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Mr. Djordjevic, as well as Minister Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, responsible for Demography and Population Policy – when exactly will you propose amendments to the Law on Financial Support for Families and what short-term measures will you introduce to help families and pregnant women who marched on the streets yesterday, also because of dissatisfaction? Mothers who earn more damage are because the maximum income that they can get during maternity leave is three average salaries, regardless of what kind of profits they make during work, while those who don't actually get financial help, but it's sometimes less than a thousand dinars. It's devastating and it's a trick. A trick that, unfortunately, we voted here. I'm sorry that the Dwri, who were against such a rule of law, couldn't influence. But I'll remind you how heartily you defended that law back then. And the same will happen to you with the pension law. In a few weeks, you'll have your pensioners on the street. Speaking of culture ministers, in Serbia, the real culture minister is Zeljko Mitrovica. And while you've been speaking hysterically for days about Zeljko, let's mention that the Serbian Progressive Party of its Zeljko also has a race. He is here a true culture minister, i.e. an unculture, and Pink is the heart and mirror of Serbia, which has become an ordinary reality of Alexander Vukic. My question to the culture minister is – why did it take him a year to respond to the Court's request that the reality broadcast be abolished? Did he smell that he would be replaced, that someone who would be more consistent in implementing Zeljko Mitrovica's policy would be in his place, and did, when he was already going into a verbal match with all those who were obliged to defend Zeljko Mitrovica, who were prime minister, interior minister, once he entered a verbal match with them, did the culture minister take all the necessary measures to punish REM, punish Pink, to punish the media that promote reality content?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43673	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43674	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the first question of the Minister of Labour, in front of an initiative called "Moms are the law", and whose driver I am. We have recently submitted the draft amendments and additions to the law in the procedure of the Assembly which we wish to implement under the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Some of the key changes that we've been looking for in this law are that the number of months that enter, the average of months that come into account during maternity leave or leave due to child care, is reduced from 18 to 12 months. The first question in the question for the Ministry of Labour is – can the Minister of Labour give us a precise economic analysis that the Ministry has calculated when preparing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children that this is an optimal number of months to be taken into account? Does the Ministry of Labour know about the discrimination women suffer when looking for work in Serbia? There is no woman or at least I haven't met her who, at the first job interview in the most productive period of her life, wasn't asked – when you plan on having a family, were you married, how many children you have now, are you planning to expand your family and so on? This issue is not reserved and this group of issues is not reserved unfortunately for the private sector, which is most often spoken of in an ugly way, these issues are mostly reserved for the public sector. During the open debates that we held when we and the women wrote a proposal to amend and supplement this law we received information and I will give you an example – a woman from Nisa has been volunteering since 2011. It's only a few months before she stays in her condition she's got a job. So, this law will be greatly denied, severely damaged, it will receive only a few thousand dinars after it is born. It's not exactly the message that comes from the Ministry that women didn't want to work, that they're lazy and that they should get what they deserve, but the message is that there's not enough work and that they're willing to work, but they don't have anywhere. The second question we ask the Ministry of Labour is – how have they decided, that is, why haven't they set a minimum amount that any pregnant woman and foster mother can receive in Serbia? They clearly determined how much pregnant women can receive, and unfortunately yesterday, we were filled with information, or the reactions of the ministry, who said that it was women who would receive the maximum amounts, and they, I must point out, are only a few hundred and there are not in the number of women who have been damaged by this law on the other basis, or that they receive much less amounts than they have received when they worked or did not work. So, as they came to the conclusion that a maximum amount could be determined that a pregnant woman and a foster mother could receive in Serbia, they failed to find the right measure as to how much the minimum amount pregnant and maternity in Serbia could receive. The bill, which I say once again, along with pregnant women and maternity mothers in four cities in Serbia, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, says together that no pregnant woman, any future mother in Serbia who will receive the amount of monthly compensation less than the republican minimum. One of the measures we are asking to amend this law, and we are also looking for an analysis of the Ministry, is to tell us what is the number of entrepreneurs that by their business essentially want to be achieved as mothers, and not just as entrepreneurs, the damage to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so they are brought into matt position to choose between, whether to put their firms in standstill status and thus practically stop the work experience they had or will do until then, and to give up certain compensations. Also yesterday, there were very malicious messages in the Serbian Parliament and in a very bad context it was communicated to a protest that was held on September 25th by mothers and maternity families. In this picture you can see in the front row of mothers in advanced pregnancy, just before birth. These are women who are in the eighth and ninth months, that I do not show other pictures, so over 1,000 women came out over 1,000 people, or citizens completely independent of any party activity, came out on September 25th with one single message. We're looking for an amendment to the Financial Support Act for the family with the children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43675	Thanks, time. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43676	I would like to thank the President. I'm asking two questions. First question I ask the Ministry of the Interior, the Chief Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime -- has the event of October 5th that has just taken place in this home in the form of the destruction of state property been prosecuted against anyone who has taken action against the legal acts in which the traits of criminal offences are obtained? Criminal acts related to the subjugation of state order, criminal acts, counterfeiting or any other criminal act. If it is against whom is the criminal case being brought, and if it isn't, why isn't it? The issue relates to the fact that just on October 5th, a promise was made to the citizens of Serbia to establish a legal state, so it was logical to ask whether the rule of law acted precisely against those who destroyed state property on October 5th? In that sense, one big thank-you should be pointed out to all those who organised today's event in the hall of the Assembly, which shows exactly what was going on, so that citizens can realistically assess and assess the events of that period. The second question is to ask JP director "Electroprivred Serbia". It is an industrial zone in the territory of the Zlatibor district, an industrial zone of Braneška polje in which it is fact-finding, existing and operating 15 large production capacities, i.e. companies and enterprises among which there is an enterprise which is exclusively directed to export with its production programme, which is a business company called “Divi” which is involved in the production of plastics in its activity. This company, along with other companies, has a huge problem through the instability of electricity supply, considering that there is even a monthly 20 times power loss, which causes serious adverse consequences for all these companies, by all these economic capacities, and thus creates problems for all those who are the end-users of these companies, in terms of the customers of their products. In particular, given the fact that it is a production which is purposely oriented towards exports. The reminders for this particular company I mentioned are constant, regular payments according to Elektroprivreda and pay the electricity consumption each month for 140,000 euros. If 140,000 euros as a monthly amount of consumption for large production capacities and complex technological processes is something that implies regularity in pay, it is logical that JP EPS is committed to such capacities and enables regular, stable and uninterrupted supply of electricity to function in the most optimal way. In particular, in this case, there is a situation that the entire industrial area, together with the municipalities that represent the areas on which the industrial zone is located, also has problems with the supply of electricity, and this is also related to the territory of Užica, and to the territory of Chajetina, Zlatibora, etc. Therefore, such a complex problem can only be solved by an EPS action that implies capacity building, i.e. bringing in a technological process or better to say apparatus, transpo cells and everything else, which implies the possibility that electricity is consumed in the way that it is most normal, most optimal and that this supply is continuous and stable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43677	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43678	Thank you. 100 years ago, since 14-18 September 1918, with the help and support of the Allied forces, the Serb army has breached the Thessaloniki front that held the German and Bulgarian forces. The first and second armies were commanded by generals Petar Bojovic and Stepa Stepanovic. This is one of the most famous events in Serbia's history. We owe the Thessaloniki fighters freedom, all of us. The state of Serbia has not marked this event. Is Serbia and for whose sake is it ashamed of our ancestors? A question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why did it not mark 100 breakthroughs of the Thessaloniki Front? The fact that we're going to mark other events in connection with World War I is no excuse for missing this extremely important event, to repeat, these people, our ancestors, we owe freedom. Enough was suggested by the president of the Assembly to organise a special session to honor the Thessaloniki fighters. The president of the assembly didn't respond to our request. The question is, why? I ask the President of the Assembly to respect Article 287(4), that it does not give oral answers, but that the answer be exclusively written. Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's question has been more than six years since the signing of the Brussels Agreement that you and Aleksandar Vukic signed with representatives of Pristina. Serbia has met all the points of the agreement and practically withdrawn the state of Serbia from KIM. Pristina didn't fill any. The question is, what are we still talking about with someone who doesn't meet what's agreed? A lot of the proposal was made for Serbia to freeze further talks with Pristina, until Pristina fulfilled its commitments six years ago. Why not support this proposal that is in Serbia's interest? It's a reasonable and reasonable proposal that no one can put up a grudge. We also suggested that if Pristina does not form an SSO within three months, the government declares the Brussels Agreement invalid because of Pristina's failure to meet. Serbia must make calm, wise and reasonable moves and protect its interests. Why isn't he doing it? Then, the EU is not Europe, it is a project that went the wrong way and became a polygon for German domination. The Euro and Euro groups have become a debt slavery instrument held by Greece, Spain, Italy. Germany's EU has entered a direct conflict with America. America reminds me of the last two months that we've been allies in two world wars. The EU project, this conflict of dollars and euros will not survive. Serbia slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall and found itself on the wrong side and we paid a huge price for it. We don't have the luxury of sleeping through this textured geopolitical change. Why are we on the wrong side again? Why does Serbia stick to German politics and domination, who is Prince Paule in today's Serbia and who is pushing Serbia into the claws of Germany? Germany has colonised the Balkans in the last 10 years. In the interest of Germany, the Balkans is a cheap workforce, obedient autocrats in power, Germany does not mind the media darkness, no electoral theft, no corruption, the German interest in Serbia is a Vojvodina country, EPS, Telekom, a cheap workforce. Citizens do not know that German companies hold over half of the textbook market for primary and secondary schools in Serbia. The German plan is for Serbia to sign a legally binding agreement with Pristina and allow a Pristina chair in the UN. Why does Serbia listen to Berlin's dictatorship and follow German politics? A question for the president of Serbia. He announced in early September at KIM that he would give a historic speech, which he said he had been preparing for months, and to announce what his idea of resolving Kosovo's issues was. After neglecting, he went to Kosovo Mitrovica and said nothing. What happened? Why was the mountain shaking and the mouse was born? Which is the policy he proposes for KIM, keeping citizens in the dark. Then, the question -- why did the Serbian President's office inform the public that the Serbian president submitted a report to Son Soros on the state of negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina. We MPs know nothing about negotiations, the government knows nothing about negotiations, citizens know nothing about negotiations. Why does Sorosch know? Sorosch is the instrument of German politics. Why does Serbia listen, report, meet German politics in Serbia, and not report to its own citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43679	Thank you. The word has an MP, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43680	I refer the issue to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We've got workers killed at work today. The question is addressed, is it true that 31 workers died in work in Serbia since the beginning of the year? These are currently available data to me, but I would like to hear it directly from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Labour, Combat Affairs, Social Affairs and Employment. I think it's important not to talk about numbers, of course, because this is not about numbers, but about the names and last names of people who have lost their lives at work, who have families who have their children, and in this sense I demand reports, above all, the Minister of Labour, Social Affairs and martial arts, about every single, unfortunate case. What are the reasons for each and every one of them and have all the protection measures been applied in the manner prescribed by the law? What have the inspection services done to report in this sense and I think that each of us MPs deserves that kind of report, not because we're just going to get that information, but because we're going to protect and prevent any accidents in the next period? I think it's important to give these reports because every man leaves his family behind and I think it's our responsibility to their family, but also to their lives. I ask the second question to the minister of construction and infrastructure, Mrs. Mihajlovic. We know, there has been a lot of writing about the slope of the hill in the Grdelic ravine, the endangerment of a major infrastructure project important for all of Serbia, and my question in this regard – what did she do to find out who ordered the current project to be redesigned 11 times? Obviously, there are huge problems and I think that responsibility and that kind of responsibility we need to know in Serbia. He's trying to take full responsibility for building engineers with the pressure to withdraw licenses, but we've seen these people do one project that was later changed 11 times. That's a big problem. I'm sure it's necessary to deal with the team very closely, because there are five more cuts on that part of the highway, and anyone who was passing that highway could see with his eyes, who were rescheduled by the same methodology and it's obvious that we have the right to wonder how safely each one of these hairs was removed. We saw a problem on this hill. It was obvious that it was moving quickly with the resolution of the part, the announcement of the bombing of the hills, the removal of the whole hill, but it is necessary in this sense to engage in the profession, and I recommend that the minister and her associates turn to the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Nis, because a large number of teachers built their careers right on the survey of this area and geological studies are certainly present in this important institution for our country. I think it's important that we prevent possibly similar problems in other pieces, get a full status report. I call upon the Ministry and inspection tasks to examine the states and other construction sites on this Corridor, because in this way we can avoid serious tragedies in that part of Corridor 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43681	The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43682	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several parliamentary questions and they are all addressed to the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, will those who on the Internet, on social networks, are openly calling for violence, persecution of the worst species, and even rape be prosecuted? It's a monstrous announcement on the social networks of one of the so-called leaders. The Alliance for Serbia, in a people known as the coalition cabbage, a certain Zeljko Veselinovic, in which it insults Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in the most frightening way, with an open invitation to the lynch and even rape. This is what it looks like, when he announces that it is the insidious ignorant, when he speaks to the words – well, dear ficus prime minister, I want you to be locked up in the community once by the same Mitrovica, in four walls, without a key, with one gifted African-American just released from prison and that show of the people watching for a few months, so I can see if after that, he'll defend the worst of this world scum. So, I'm ashamed, I have a huge feeling of awkwardness just reading this kind of status on the social network. We are used to various insults by members of the former regime, they do it daily. The only thing they do is make up lies, inventions and worst insults at the expense of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government, the SNS, but this is an unprecedented case in the recent political history of monstrosity. On the aside that by this moment, to this day most of the coalition partners of the Zeljko Veseinovic from that cabbage coalition have not condemned such a monstrosity tweet or Facebook status, as it is already called. So he didn't convict. It's one thing to fence and one thing to condemn. They've had opportunities all these days to condemn such a disgusting act. They didn't do it on the media either, they didn't do it here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they didn't do it yesterday at a session of the City of Belgrade Assembly where Zeljko Veseinovic and the board member, aside from not having the opportunity to resign because of such a crime. It testifies to another publication, thanks to social networks, which Zeljko Veselinovic thanks to his coalition partners for their support. Some even took a step further and showed understanding of his statement. In that second publication, he said -- thank you to all members of the Alliance for Serbia for their unequivocal support. They won't scare us, tear us apart, they're just giving us more power to fight this fascist regime, etc. So, he thanks his colleagues from the Alliance for Serbia, and the DS, and this assaulter, Gilasov, from the false Patriotic organisation Dveri, and everyone else, he thanks for his support. Furthermore, will certain politicians who have been calling on social networks for the violent destruction of government in the country, for various bloodshed, coup, coup, violent takeover of power, that is, everything that Bosko Obradović, Djilasov's assaulter, then Vladimir Gajic, senior official of Jeremic's party and other Djilas's publices wrote on social networks this summer from the sea? Here we have Bosko Obradovic, who calls on the honorary officers of the Serbian Army and the interior ministry to arrest the president of Serbia for violating the constitution, overcoming the presidential oath and calling for criminal proceedings. Then we have lawyer Vladimir Gajic, a senior official of Jeremic's party, who said violent demonstrations supported by the West are the only way to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic and his SNS. "We cannot win the elections, we must be prepared for the violent takeover of power, we must provide the support of the great forces for it and prepare for that moment," said a senior official of Jeremic's party. So it's already clear to all of us that it's a set of people who are aware they have nothing to look for on the political scene of Serbia and are therefore calling for and wishing for a variety of scenarios, bloodshed, coups. Fortunately, they won't get away with something like that in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43683	Thank you. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. On Article 1 of the amendment, Natasa St. Jovanovic. Does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43684	I would like to start by saying that I am joining my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS who have condemned any violence, aggression and any call for violence from those who call themselves Democrats and intellectual elite, and no one has found it appropriate to apologize or fence against the monstrous threats of individuals from their ranks. During yesterday, there were many statements of hatred, lies, accusations by the opposition, for we see from great impotence and jealousy why the saying “success is not forgiven. ” There is now a good socio-economic relationship between the state and pensioners in Serbia, as well as between workers and employers, and it is continuous, and this is a common tendency for the material situation in Serbia to be better. Political courting for some peace or political points has remained in the past. If Serbia were in charge of creating no good government image, we don't want to. We want to achieve good conditions with good work and people to understand – as much as they do, so much will be better for everyone, both workers and pensioners and the state. The pensioners trust us, which is close to two million pensioners, and these are people with great life experience, who have made a good contribution to getting Serbia out of the collapse and bankruptcy that the previous government has brought us into. We've barely ripped ourselves out of the living mud that our country has fallen more and more into. But thanks to the wisdom, knowledge, honesty and tremendous hard work of our president of Serbia and our president of the SNS, with a team of people he has set up and assessed that they can fight with great problems and challenges with dignity and ultimately win, our country records the largest economic growth in the region. In 2017, Serbia attracted 118 foreign direct investments, which is 157% more than in 2016. Only now, the last visit to China brought signed contracts of 10 billion euros in investments in the near future. The surplus is 8.8 billion dinars, which means that citizens' patience, and mostly pensioners, with the very valuable and dedicated work of our president and the entire government, yielded results with constant economic work. And that's what matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43685	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43686	Thank you, President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the stability of public finances is important for every country, for its future, for its perspective, for its development. When politicians address citizens on the subject of pensions, wages, some social categories or something on the fourth, it is very important that they always remember how important it is that the state has stable public finances. If that is not the case in their public address in action, then such politicians are always absolute populists and demagogues and, unfortunately, in our history, there have been many. Practically, the 2014 government of Aleksandar Vukic is the first government to have the courage to point to the reality of citizens and to withdraw some unpopular measures leading to the recovery of public finances. So it's very important that some facts happen again. When it comes to pensions, 60% of pensioners have never had a pension reduction, and there have been several increases in the previous four years. With the latest increase in pensions around 90% of pensioners will have significantly higher pensions than in 2014, while the state of Serbia has much more stable and healthier public finances. When I say so, I also think of greater GDP growth and the decline in public debt and the stability of national currency and the low inflation rate and reduced unemployment and the drastically lower budget deficit. All these parameters have contributed to us in the last four years, and I'm not saying that, the relevant international institutions say, such as the International Monetary Fund, such as the World Bank, sometimes the Fiscal Council, which is mostly critical, but recently sometimes something to praise, and in the past they've never praised anything, nor had anything to praise. There are also those who never praise anything, who only criticise it, and here I think first of all of all of this new, the latest tycoon-Ljotic coalition of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, my Chacan fellow MP. I don't care too much when I look at them telling each other the worst. Let's remember that Dragan Djilas kicked Vuk Jeremic out of the party, that Borko Stefanovic said he would rather have a spike in his head than be in a coalition with Vuk Jeremic. When they talk like that about each other, what do we expect them to talk about the government and its results? When they call for the rape of the prime minister, how can we expect them to be happy and glad that in the first two quarters of 2018, the growth of our GDP is 4.9%, that we can re-enlarge salaries and pensions, but on realistic grounds, that we do not have to raise interest rates of 7 and 8% to increase pensions and patch up the budget gap, as they did in their time? When we take up some credit, it's a $1.2 or 3% interest, and we raise it to build clinical centers, to build highways, all that they haven't done, and in particular they haven't done in the city where I come from, in the town of Chačka, which hasn't gotten one kilometer of highways in 12 years, no new factory, and all the factories they've been doing have been shut down by robbery privatisations. Cačak is a textbook example of the public and incompetence of the former government, as set out in the current Alliance for Serbia. Of course, in the voting day, I will support this law, and on all these stability parameters of public finances that I mentioned earlier, I will speak in detail in one of the next amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43687	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43688	Thank you. Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers with Associates, Honorable Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on invalidity insurance, which was submitted by the Government, I submit an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on invalidity and pension insurance, which amends Article 12. The law, adding a new position on 2nd, reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the development of medical centres." Namely, the reasons for the adoption of this law stem first and foremost from the need for the disability and pension insurance system to continue to be regulated, in line with the start of the reform of this system in 2002. Otherwise, the reforms themselves took place in five phases, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014. The main objective of these reforms is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which provides legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. The pension system was not adapted to changes in terms of the demographic movement of the population, and it was also exaggerated in relation to the economic opportunities of society compared to the milder criteria of the disability commission for the signing of a settlement for invalid pensions as well as the heights of the same. In addition, an unfavourable number of insurance and pensioners of 1:1.15 with a constant deterioration in this relationship has led to a deficit in the PIO business, so nearly 40% of the obligation to pay off net pensions touched from the Republic's budget. The government of the Republic of Serbia has pledged to abolish the Pension Reduction Act when the Republic Fund is financially stabilised. It seems to me that he is now stable thanks to the constant doping with the sum that is below the level sought by the IMF. The government is very pleased with the situation in the sense that the increase was sufficient in the budget so that its rebalancing was not needed. For this reason, measures have been taken to reform the adaptation of the disability pension system with these circumstances. The age limit for retirement has been raised for both men up to 65, and for women up to 62 with a gradual rise in age that is equal to male and six months a year. The conditions for exercising the right to a disability pension have increased, and an early retirement pension has been introduced with a permanent reduction in pension levels. At the same time, conditions are needed to create the right to a family pension, pension growth policy is in line with the economic opportunities of the budget. In addition to the measures taken to reduce deficits and budget grants, the key factor for long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the more efficient development of our country with new investments and increased employment, thus improving the relationship of employees and pensioners. It should be noted that pensioners are very important to the government of the Republic of Serbia that is trying to provide them with the best conditions for life. In this law, there are positive changes that go in favour of pensioners. The government's promise, the first promise of pensions of 8.8 to 13.2%, should already be in November when the October pension is paid. Our oldest citizens are truly responsible for the successful reforms implemented by the government and thanks to them, we now have stable public finances for which we are immeasurably grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43689	Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacancy in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. The report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal from the National Assembly in accordance with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Aleksandra Jevtic, elected from the election list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the report and the proposal of the competent committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of MP Aleksandra Jevtic. Please prepare to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you on your own behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly on your choice and wish you happy work. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43690	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, all these days we've heard all kinds of stories from the yellow elite, or from the yellow company that we've kidnapped the pensioners and that we don't know we're running this country, and the elections have just shown that it's not true. And as much as they took care of the pensioners, I will remind them only in 2012, not that they didn't take care of the pensioners, they wouldn't even allow employees to exercise their right to retire. In 2011 and 2012, in the Public Enterprise Resavica, where miners work, 500 meters below the country no contributions were paid to PIO, thus employees in the mine did not have the conditions to exercise their rights regardless of their over 63 years and what they did over 40 years. Billions and millions of dinars remained in debt to the PIO Fund and over 60,000 pensioners, an average of 25,000 received a pension at the time, the rest was denied. And today they know something here to tell us that we don't know how to run the country and deny pensioners compensation. So you'd better shut up and go back to where they came from because this nation will never give them the chance to rule this country again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43691	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43692	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I begin to explain my first amendment, I want as a woman, mother, doctor, gynecologist, who I have dedicated my entire working life to preserving women's health, to strongly condemn the insulting writing by Željko Veseninović to our Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, in order that such comments never and ever happen again if we have civilised people in whom we are previously listed can certainly not count. I'm ashamed of his shame, and he's obviously not. If it is the leader of the Alliance for Serbia, then God did not let such ones ever come to power, which can certainly never happen. In Article 1 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO which is being amended in Article 12. The law adds a new position 2 which reads – This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to health development. By abolishing the Law on the Temporary Regulation on how to pay out pensions, pensions are paid back to the level without being reduced as a result of positive economic movements. This allows pensioners who have endured the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation to benefit from improving the state economy. At the time of the rule of the previous regime we were on the verge of financial collapse, the state was brought before bankruptcy. Robbery privatisations in public enterprises filled their pockets, all of which indemnified the state by taking unfavourable loans at high interest rates. At the time of Mr. Alexander Vukic's arrival as Prime Minister, the situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget was disastrous. Thanks to the hard work, day and night, the responsible work of our president, the great sacrifice and the desire to tear the country out of ruin, by bringing in a large number of foreign investors, by opening up a large number of factories and many new jobs, unlike the previous ones left by 400,000 people without a job, the pension fund and the budget of our country have begun to be filled, so for the last three years we have a surplus in the budget, not a deficit left by our predecessors. I was shocked by the information from the current Prime Minister's exposé that at the annual level, we only have to pay off the interest on the unfavourable, previously borrowed loans, we have to pay back the money worth 150 kilometers of the highway. Our country would have blossomed if it hadn't been for the thieves who led this country until 2012. But today, thanks to the successful work of our president and our government, we also have the biggest investment in the economy and health care. In the past 40 years, almost nothing has been done since major investment in health care, and now large clinical centres such as Nis have already been opened, so all others in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, will be reconstructed in turn. In addition to the renovated children's hospital in Tirshovo, Tirshova 2, the most modernly equipped hospital for the treatment of our youngest. I thank the President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who announced an increase in salary to healthcare workers. I think it's absolutely justified for the work they're doing. This will build more money into the pension fund and our oldest citizens, pensioners will have increased pensions, and every year next, in line with economic developments and available financial resources in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43693	I'd like to thank my colleague Grubor. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Ivana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43694	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the bill we are talking about today is certainly the result of a dedicated and diligent work of leadership, headed by President Alexander Vukic, who had the courage and the will to face accumulated problems. And at a time when he was carrying out heavy measures, doing so, he was also getting much more support today than the citizens of Serbia and trust in those who offer and do, or what representatives of various political forms are now doing. On economic growth, a reduction in public debt and the general state of the budget, Serbia is a leader in the region. With pride, and more importantly with clearly defined indicators, facts recognised by the world's competent institutions today appear before citizens of Serbia. The fact is also that unemployment is now far less than six years ago and this is causing a healthy atmosphere, because as many employees compared to earlier, we are talking today about paying pensions based on contributions and taxes. Such a policy on sound grounds has led to the situation that we are now talking about the real long-term real way of settling legal obligations and now there is a secure model for pension payments When we have such a stable budget, when we have a surplus, when we have an increasing number of open factories, when we have an increasing number of employees in our country, when economic growth is marked, when the realisation of infrastructure projects is recorded, such an ambience contributes to attracting new investments. Everyone will want to invest in a country with parameters that Serbia has and whose leadership in implementing the SNSM programme has contributed to the reputation of an independent sovereign, free and respected country today. Such a Serbia is a desirable destination for the realisation of infrastructure projects and for life, not as those who would like to see it, who promote violence, attack on the military, police, women, etc. It does not want Serbian citizens they have shown that they want to stay on this road that leads them to a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43695	Thank you, colleague. Honorable Members of the People in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Next speaker. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43696	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the Law, or a bill on amendments to the Law on PIO, with the intention of trying to contribute to the intention of the legislator of this law, which is that in a clear and precise way, by amending the provisions of Article 12, it also agrees with the provisions of the Business Society Act. In fact, what I propose is that, in addition to what the bill puts us here to consider, it is to delete the words as well as the exercise of management and management tasks in accordance with the law governing the position of companies, to delete them from Article 12, Article 12, in addition, to delete the words "and representation". In fact, I believe that such a correction is necessary in order to fully comply with the Business Society Act, and this is a clear urgency of the legislator that, in addition to this alignment, this explicitly refers only to founders or members of companies who carry out such activities for the benefit of society. So, the comments that we were listening to yesterday, or were malicious or fellow respected, they didn't even read the bill because they were talking about how this would open up a manipulative space for the boss as an employer and the workers to agree that a less pay is fictionally written, etc. No, I don't. This has nothing to do with employees in these companies, this exclusively applies to founders or as we glegonically like to say – concerns owners. This will correct one injustice, which is that those who could not be in a working relationship, and could receive foreign pensions precisely because of the provisions of the Company Act and this collapsing colitism, this law, and I think that this amendment removes them completely, will be able to exercise the rights that they can withdraw from foreign states when it comes to retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43697	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43698	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to further define this member, but I am also putting a special accent on the sustainability of the financial system and one stable manner and a model of pension financing. When we talk about the reform processes implemented in Serbia, it is certain that today's proposal, which we are discussing today, is also part of the process because it is about establishing an efficient, modern and orderly state. This proposal improves the material position of all pensioners and provides for the possibility of increasing income and users with the lowest incomes, but generally all categories of pensions. This proposal provides for a fairer way of accounting for early retirement, but also a space for single payment of cash amounts, with the very amount of pension. It is foreseen that these models improve the material position of pensioners and we have made it possible through the reforms that have been implemented, through the savings that have been achieved, so we now have a real basis, a real space and real opportunities, justifiably, to plan and implement what is foreseen by today's law. It is, of course, on positive economic movements and sustainability of the system and greater opportunities that are in line with the results achieved. However, when we talk about reforms, this is not the only place where reforms are implemented. There can be also talk about reforms in space and in the sphere of economy because through this law and employers there will be reduced administrative burdens. Even projected a reduction of 16 forms placed on the burden of employers. So, through one system discharge, through the savings that are being achieved will surely achieve positive effects in the sphere of economy. Networking the system and more efficient work of the PIO Fund is what is more difficult and it is another segment of the government's strategy when we talk about improving the state administration. Finally, pensioners who have borne the greatest burden through savings, through reforms, through this whole process will finally be able to benefit because the system is recovered, the finances are stable and consolidated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43699	Thank you, colleague Turk. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here's my colleague, Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43700	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, and this is a law that will bring joy to all of our pensioners whom, due to the irresponsible policy of the yellow enterprise, we have had to temporarily reduce pensions. I think it's important that we remind our pensioners why we had to temporarily reduce their pensions in 2014. Well, because gentlemen from the yellow company in 2008, for the sake of winning the election, in the midst of the economic crisis, increased pensions by 10%, and with a regular increase that was even 15%. They made a huge hole in the budget and led the state to bankruptcy in 2012. To show you how amateurs treated the future of this country, I will read to you what Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said in 2008. Says Mirko: “There is money to increase pensions. Work on budget rebalancing is under way, and first estimates show that the rebalance will not break the 2008 budget. “ And then just a month after that, we have news – the finance ministry announced last week that the budget at the end of August according to a new internationally comparable methodology, which has been applied since July this year, was in a deficit of as many as 17.4 billion dinars. Thus, according to the old methodology, this year's budget deficit is increasing to 44.9 billion dinars. So, Mirko Cvetkovic, even though he knew this was leading to bankruptcy, thought he had money to raise pensions. What did that look like? What did that going bankrupt look like by 2012? Well, here. In 2008, the yellow company planned a budget deficit of minus 45 billion and a minus 45 billion, and the deficit reached was minus 72 billion. Then, in 2009, they planned a minus 49 billion, and they achieved a minus 127 billion. In 2010, they planned minus 82 billion and reached a minus 141 billion. And then in 2011, Mirko Cvetkovic comes back and says: Greece will not happen to us. And what happened was they planned 93 billion, and they achieved a deficit of minus 163 billion. In the end, in 2012, they planned a 124 billion deficit, and we ended up with a deficit of minus 245 billion dinars. Of course, public debt is always a good indicator of how you run the country. The public debt of eight billion euros, as high as in 2008, increased to as much as 17 billion euros in 2012. That's how they run the country, gentlemen. And, yes, we would have had Greece if it hadn't been for the SNS, and thanks to the SNS, it would never have happened to us, and the pensioners would have more pensions than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43701	Thank you, colleague Michin. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go. She's a colleague of Markovic's. You're the one who picked up the amendment? I apologize, colleague Markovic, Dr Jokic has responded to the amendment, so if you'll excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43702	Just to fill in my colleague, so the exposure is complete. In 2008, then, the government increased its pension four times. Everything a colleague said, that's true, but should be said the following – that they were chasing 60% of the average salary and that they miscalculated that salary because they did not take into account the salary of entrepreneurs. And then, in 2008, pensions increased by 70 billion. Then they entered the gross domestic product with 13.4%. So, simple, total ignorance or total indiscriminateness towards the state. These are such mistakes and such incursion of the state, that it is unremembered in history etc. I can't understand that such diletaries could have run the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43703	Thank you, colleague Yokic. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43704	Thank you. I'm sure it wasn't a pleasant decision for any of us who voted to cut pensions. And, in addition, each of us in our family has pensioners, and all of which, of course, was directly reflected in our budget. We had to resolve the consequences of a lot of unfounded decisions to increase pensions before the 2012 elections, which was made exclusively for pre-election purposes. And, at that point, Serbia's public debt was 78% of GDP. The state was in front of bankruptcy. That we didn't bring in 2014. The Retirement Act, today, is the question of how much pensions would be and whether we could even pay them off. The fact that this decision was correct, although difficult, as I have already said, also suggests that GDP was 4.5% in the first six months of this year and that the average salary was 470 euros and until just a few years ago was 336. And we will bring Serbia's public debt down to below 50% by the end of this year, which I think is a really great success. With this increase, an increase of 13.3% will receive almost a million citizens receiving pensions of less than 25,000 dinars. The lowest pensions are not even reduced, but they are covered by this increase. I am truly sorry that such a burden had to be borne by pensioners, but I am glad that the conditions for increasing pensions were finally created and, as I said, especially the lowest ones, which were not even reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43705	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43706	Thank you. Dear Ministers with guests, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens, this is my first amendment to the bill, to the first member, and is related to economic growth. In the first six months of this year, an economic growth of 4.5% was achieved. A 22 billion deficit was planned, and 31 billion surplus was reached. This makes it possible to increase pensions even before promises, and President Vukic and SNS policy delivers good, exceptional results and we will continue to strengthen the economy by achieving conditions for further increases in wages and pensions. A secure model of pension financing was established despite an announced increase in pensions from 8.8% to 13.2% from next month. An increase of up to 5% may be expected in the following year. Every pension from four years ago, when pensions were cut, because of the disastrous policy that led us to bankruptcy, will be bigger. From 1 January 2019, Serbia will be among the ten countries with the lowest debt. It'll carry out 48% of GDP. I am proud, and you, pensioners, should be proud, for you have helped most, and should be proud of yourself and of your country that has managed to do so. Pensioners know who to trust. They will see for themselves and realize that all promises will be fulfilled. I expected a few days from my opposition counterparts to condemn Zeljko Veselinović, at least those colleagues who are members of the Women's Parliamentary Network. But unfortunately, nothing. That's the one on the other side. Violence, attacks on women, is a common factor in all members of the opposition and the only policy they offer is hatred for Alexander Vukic, enforcement and calling for violence. But we have the answer for everything, for all these calls for violence and all that hatred, and our answer is economic success, work, public debt reduction, unemployment reduction, more investment, higher wages and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43707	Thank you. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43708	Thank you, Chairman. You know, when we started implementing reforms to stabilise the financial system and the economy in Serbia, one of the measures was to cut pensions. Some were optimistic, some pessimists about the positive effects of these reforms. But believe me, I never doubted for a moment whether we were on the right track and I have to thank the pensioners for their insistence. There are, among other things, my parents, friends, godfathers, cousins. We're working today to increase pensions. We are witnessing what the results of these reforms are, which is financial stability, financial stability that allowed us to open gardens to many investors, not just shut down businesses. Because we were consistent, persistent, because we believed and, above all, because we are being led by the best among us, we have the opportunity to open doors to companies from Korea, Italy, Germany, Sweden, China and many others. I come from a city where companies from those countries do business. Believe me, Zrenjin was in the cage, he was forgotten, and I've had enough to hear about how it's a town in the shadows, how dark, dead, and it's certainly not going to be anymore. A few days ago, or rather a month ago, the president of the Republic of Serbia visited Zrenjanin when a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese company "Shandong Linglong Tyre". The memorandum was signed by Minister Goran Knezevic with the president of the company, and we are witnessing that a few days ago the president visited the People's Republic of China. President Aleksandar Vucic signed a financing and investment agreement with CJP President Zrenjanin, investing in Serbia. That investment is worth $950 million and some will laugh or they will be bothered when I say that these are historic changes and they are because it's a new picture of Zrenjanin. It's life for Zrenjanin, Banat, Baka, for Serbia. Believe me, I'm proud, I'm extremely proud because we have a chance to open jobs for my Zrenjanians and all our citizens in the Zrenjanin municipality. Trust me, the ultimate gratitude is for the pensioners who helped us endure and we'll know how to pay them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43709	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, throughout this entire session, while we are passing a law that stops reducing pensions for our pensioners, there are always certain questions that are being raised and that the responsibility for the reductions so far is solely attributed to Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Here, one of my colleagues yesterday, your honor, I'm not going to attack him for having twice the salary on the state's manger, but one ordinary MP should have, for a good economist, but what's missing here in the Assembly is honesty. In the people, or nature, there is one bird that often, not often but always puts its egg in the nest with other birds. In the people, she is known as a coward. So my esteemed colleague, people and citizens should conclude that they should be called representatives of the former regime working like this, says that in 2012, when they lost power, the level of public debt was about 15 billion euros, which was about 45% of the public debt. My esteemed colleague won't say that it's an amount that covers exclusively and only those duties to which the National Assembly has given consent, and is it a public debt of all those obligations that the state has and which it has to pay, and there are no sources of income from which it will pay? It's a public debt, a consolidated public debt, or call it whatever you want. My esteemed colleague forgot to say that, from 2012 until the end of the same year, we had to cover the debts of Agrobanks, to cover the debts of Vojvodina Development Bank, to cover the debts of Galenika, and that it amounts to approximately two billion euros, which is small, about 7% of GDP. How did that 45% suddenly turn into 52%? Then we had to cover the company's restructuring obligations. There is a very difficult calculation, but the word must be close to half a billion euros. Then we had to cover the obligations of local self-government that owed "Srbigas" on the basis of the gas delivered, and yet all of this based on the work of the local self-government heat-delivery industry, they charged the same heat from citizens, but instead of paying "Srbigas" to share salaries, subsidies, buying official cars, etc. Some 400m euros were missing subsidies in agriculture, and my dear colleague knew that. He also knew, as a good economist, that we no longer have an economy to finance the state and which should through its activities, taxes and contribute to paying off all these debts. Now, I'm not going to increase that debt for everything I've counted. I'm just going to ask one question - at 15 billion euros what is the interest rate that is 7%? A billion euros. That's exactly a billion euros. On debts from 2012 to 2014, only those recognised by the former regime, two billion euros are interest on loans they have raised. If you don't have an economy that was destroyed and destroyed by the sale of social property, it was destroyed by the fall of the dinar course, destroyed by high inflation, destroyed by the mistrust of investors in the legal and economic security of their investments. What's left of the state? To raise a new loan to pay for, not the principal, but the interest. By the law which reduced pensions, over two billion euros went exclusively to interest loans raised before 2012 and the principal dinar was not reduced because we had no economy to finance the repayment of loans. When you do something like that, you're in a situation where you have a geometric progression of debt growth. Those who deal with a little economics, a little math knows what that means. That with every new duty, you will repay not the principals, but only to pay the interest amount on the debts. That's how we got to 24, 25 billion euros. Don't give us any more ashes, we don't know that. He knows my colleague, the respected economist, very well. Don't brag about how you reduced your debt in 2000 and how you found the state. The 15 billion-euro debt was reduced by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia giving up its continuity over the SFRY and a little less than five euros to the then federal republic of Yugoslavia, and the rest was allocated to other former SFRY members. That someone's diminished that someone's earned it? It's not. He redeployed the debts as he thought it should be. I don't mind, but there's no business but administrative. It is one part paid off, written off by the Paris Club and the London Club, but which -- which they don't say. We've been paid the interest that was charged to us while they were being sanctioned. Nothing more. Here today, this year we have to return 400m euros or dollars, I don't know exactly, to the London and Paris Club for the task of Tito's time in Yugoslavia. Here's the day we pay for it. Why don't they say they got their old foreign savings back? By sharing bonds. Who's paying these bonds that are split today? This government from the Republic of Serbia's budget. How did you repay that old foreign currency savings to just you? You found a model. How did the other debts get paid? By selling out social property. I have a feeling, not a sale, but a little gift. Well, it doesn't matter what anything costs 30, 40, 50 billion euros, we'll sell it for a billion, two to settle some obligations. Nothing was earned from 2000 to 2012. Lived exclusively from a loan or from a sale of assets. What was the next step of the current regime? The sale of Telecoma, the sale of Telecoma, so that votes can be bought in the elections. The 2012 elections came, and if the SNS hadn't strongly opposed it then and created uncertainty for those who wanted to buy Telecom, they would have sold it for 600-700m euros just to split their pensions ahead of the elections. If they'd won that election, you know what they'd be selling next? "Electro-priority of Serbia". And then what would they sell? I don't know. Citizens? They've already sold the land. Who? Then we're being attacked that we have investors who pay our workers to the retailers. The largest salary in Serbia by 2017 was 410 euros, on average. Today, the average salary is higher than it was in 2007. Wait, were those investors good then, and today they're slave owners, how do you represent it? I will try at the end of my address to say that one of the reasons and why Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have results and that we can now return the obligations we have not made and increase the number of employees and increase pensions, soon pay in the public sector, is that we have always told citizens the truth, the truth of whatever it is to the businessmen and investors who came to Serbia, we have told the truth. Once, former President of the Republic Boris Tadic, I guess just once in his career because he wanted to become president of the Republic of Serbia, told the truth that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, DS MPs voted from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, and therefore apologized to Serbian citizens and won the presidential elections. Start telling the truth once, whether you like her or not. The sooner you start, the sooner the people may believe you, and while you're telling the colorful lies about how you led Serbia and what a ruined country you left us, you have no chance of winning any election, nor for the president of the home council because the citizens know what it was like in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and they know what it is now. Of course, in any subsequent election, as long as you act like that, they will not vote for you and believe in those who tell them the truth, they will vote for Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43711	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43712	Thank you. There are many reasons to listen carefully to the arguments for the amendment and to express the tendency to vote for some amendments, but this is the right time to compare who is telling the truth. So, what is the basis for arguments about all the success that SNS has done in the last seven years? They are based on something that would read like this – in 2008 the poor member of the United Pension Party coalition of Serbia prayed - do not increase pensions, not at all, cut. Also, a member of the SPS coalition said -- do not cut pensions and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, said -- do not reduce pensions, but the yellow ones have somehow increased pensions. That's what you base your interpretations on. When you talk about the debts of "Serbigas" then you base an interpretation that there was a different director back then and now. And I don't mind, it's your version of the interpretation of the truth and a way to explain that you are never guilty or responsible or members of the 2008 coalition of the government. In 2012, it's just yellow. I wish that your interpretation was true because it would talk a lot about the art of the yellow ones, but it's not because the basic beginning of all the interpretations for seven years that the yellow ones are guilty of everything from Hamurabi to this day it's thin and airy for you. That is why we have a problem really talking about how an amendment to a law that abolishs temporary accounting and pension cuts is submitted in the National Assembly, with a special reference to medical institutions or plant protection or judicial practice. It's something that could be a topic. Is it legal to use as representatives of the ruling coalition all the time available to us to inform all people of our successes? It's probably legal, I'm sure it is. It is not legitimate, as it is not legitimate to base seven years of propaganda on both the PUPS and the SPS and the SDPS against the pension increase, they were terribly opposed and fought not to increase at all, but to decrease. But somehow the yellow ones managed to raise their pensions. You can't fix that weak spot, and you're holding on to it. Why? You probably need it for what you think is true. That truth was neither true nor ever will be. But it's your right to choose to interpret something as facts regardless of all the sins of DS, of all the wrong moves, of all the human DS who are a terrible yellow scum while in DS, as soon as they cross into SNS personnel, it's good, it's good, it's mayor, either the vice president, anything. Your choice, but if you're looking for the truth in such a choice, then it's my duty and duty to give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43713	Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when someone's list wins the table and the change of mandates as it was in 2008, it is solely responsible for how it will lead the state. Who the coalitions made it with doesn't interest me. They wanted to save power after that. They called on SPS and PUPS to form a government with them. They said – we will, but provided you meet our programming goals. It's a perfectly legitimate right. No one can forbid that, and I don't blame them. What I object to them, if they saw that they couldn't meet someone's programming goals, which was a condition for forming a government, why didn't you go to the election? No, you wanted power at all costs. What, the chairs were more important than the state, the privileges were more important than the state, the drop system was more important than the state? Transferring to "Srbigas", which the presidents of the municipality did not pay for the gas delivered and charged from citizens with heating bills and sharing salaries and buying official cars, is that why the director of "Srbigas" or the political leadership of the parties who put them in those places? Well, that's the truth I'm telling you, the one you should face, people. So in 2008, it wasn't a fight for better Serbia, with the party that won the most of the mandates in the Serbian Parliament, it was DS, but a struggle for naked power and kidnapping, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43715	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, to mention the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43716	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can disagree on that, or agree, in which way political decisions are actually made, but what are the facts is that you have made, as a party, the wrong decisions that cost the Republic of Serbia and the citizens very much. What we should remind citizens today and know, is that the then prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, who was otherwise proposed, as an extra-party candidate for DS, as prime minister, and was the director of the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia four years before that, was against such measures, but there was no political will, obviously to be heard by both professional people and that indeed that platform was brought to an end politically. That's why you've actually lost, not just the elections, but lost, in fact, the trust of the citizens of Serbia. Because as a political party, you were carrying your own personal interests, not your own. That is why it is simply a big difference between SNS 2012 and DS 2012, because these parties you are talking to now have understood why Mr Vukic, as SNS President and Tomislav Nikolic as president of Serbia, also told these political options, which you are attacking, which have not changed in terms of staff, that simply the facts say that we must go through rationalisation of economic reforms. You had no political power, no personal solutions that could bring out that political platform, nor did you propose to the citizens of Serbia. That's a big difference, and that's why I don't think you have the right to see things in this way at all, that some who haven't changed in their political beliefs today simply participate in political life in a completely different way, no, they understand what's true, which is that Serbia was on a very difficult economic path by 2012 and came into collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43717	Thank you. Right on the replica of Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43718	Thank you. When and if I ever intend to attack someone, you won't have any doubts. What I've tried to share with all of us in a few minutes and deserve your attention is interpretations of what's true, and whether or not I'm entitled to it or not it's just the responsibility of the chairman of the Assembly to tell me this you can't talk about, you can do this. It is not good for the people's messengers, colleagues, to speak to each other about what they have the right to do, to which they have no right. Because of that, I've been saying two interpretations that we're witnessing, one powerful, one of yours, how this all happened to mine, which is verifiable and told with as much data as I have. I have no intention of changing your interpretation, absolutely, nor do I have any regrets, that you will change the interpretation, what I see in that interpretation of the truth that lacks the image that I've shared is that we won't be able to really have a dialogue on the right topics. It's a common shame and it's the only purpose of my intervention, I've never disputed anyone's political will, nor the political elections, it's everyone's right and I will defend everyone's right and make coalitions and not make coalitions and be on the list and whatever. The topic was an interpretation of the truth about why pensions were reduced, and now this law is getting back to the old ones, changing for a little bit better or not changing. So it was the only topic and I'll never attack anyone. I don't have anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43719	Thank you, colleague Komic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43720	So, relativisation of the view of what it had to do in 2014 to reduce pensions in order to implement certain economic reforms, fiscal consolidation, in co-operation with international financial institutions and the fact that by 2012 you had driven the IMF away, set up 208 credit lines and put Serbia in charge of having to pay for it today, tomorrow and in 10 years, are simply the views we have the right to talk about, each to the MPs and how it sees its political participation in time to 2012 and beyond. No one here is saying that someone is denying someone the right, whether it stands for a certain point of view, but simply, for the sake of truth, we need to always give and remind the citizens of Serbia what happened these years, by 2012 and what the consequences of the wrong decisions of those years are. So it was a very difficult task for us to simply reverse the whole situation, when it comes to the economy, the economic environment, Serbia's budget, in the sense that we really have all the possible contributions that we need to settle all the participants in the society that are on Serbia's budget, and thus set up a system of functioning our economy so that our children have a future here in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43721	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word is Igor Becic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43722	Dear Chairman, despite the opposition's escape from the hall before my colleagues' argument, I will say that my colleagues talked about the disastrous methodology and the poor pre-election intention of increasing pensions in 2008, by the yellow company, but the disastrous decision also had a further collapse of the state budget, as in the absence of pension payments from real sources, expensive short-term loans were raised. We also have spent money on public spending privatisation and projects from which they sucked money for their party and personal cash. We also have the result of destroyed public finances, ruined Serbia and left 100,000 people without jobs. All this had to come from the foundation of President Vukic, head of the government and state and courageously implement reforms and restore Serbia's reputation in the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43723	Thank you, colleague Becic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43724	I understand Igor Becic doesn't see what he sees or hears what he hears, but indeed, Mr Marinkovic, I don't know how many times I have to warn you. Article 107. How do you let Igor Becic say – since the opposition left the room? The Serbian Radical Party is the largest political opposition party in parliament. To remind Becic, it's that political party he once stole his mandate. Maybe he'd forget it, but it's unforgettable, a thief once and for all, a thief always. So, please, and for everything, take care of it, you tend to do it, and then you're kind of arguing with this alliance, and you're tending to do it to show to the public that there's just them and just you. No, there is a Serbian Radical Party. Here we are, for God's sake, in Parliament, seriously talking about the government's proposals, we are seriously criticizing, we are still, seriously proposing solutions, and I ask that, indeed, as someone who holds the presidency, you take care. If this was the first time, I would understand. I know, you'll say it now. I can't imagine what the Messenger is going to say. I don't expect you to assume, but the moment he said -- since the opposition came out of the hall, you had to click on the button and say -- Mr. Becic, the opposition Serbian Radical Party is sitting in the hall. And don't let that happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43725	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, although I can agree with you, and it is undeniable that the SRS is the biggest opponent and the largest opposition party in the National Assembly, but everyone has the right to have some perception and to say in that sense what they think. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jovica Jevtic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43726	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, I propose an amendment to Article 1 which further defines and specifies the link between the proposed legislative solution and the uniform development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the amendments to the existing legal solution defined in Article 1 are in line with the existing Pension and Disability Insurance Act with the provisions of the Business Society Act. The planned amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act continue the process of normative regulation of areas of pension and disability insurance. The main objective of all changes is to adapt compulsory pension and disability insurance, as the most important part of the pension system, demographic change, economic circumstances, but also with the country's strategic determination to establish a modern and efficient administration. Amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act suggest a fairer calculation of the amount of early retirement pension for insurance workers increasing the insurance rate, so-called Beneficiary work experience. In addition, the amendments to certain provisions of the Law significantly reduce the obligations of employers with regard to the completion and delivery of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund of different applications, ensuring the legal certainty of pensioners. In order to reduce the number of temporary resolutions of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, it is proposed to amend the way in which the last year's hold of insurance is calculated. By abolishing the Law on the temporary arrangement of how pensions are paid, the amount of pensions paid is returned to the level without a reduction, resulting from positive economic movements. This allows pensioners who have suffered the greatest burden of the fiscal consolidation process to benefit from improving the state economy. Legal regulation of pension increases, one-time aid payments, provides the basis for further improving the social situation of more vulnerable categories of pensioners. Maintaining adequate pension levels is one of the basic objectives of the pension system. One of the basic benefits of the proposed changes will be the even development of the Republic of Serbia in all social spheres. Of course, this should be pursued as one ideal in all future drafts of the law. That is why the amendment, which further defines and specifies the link between this bill and the even development of the Republic of Serbia, is supporting the idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43727	Thank you, colleague Yevtić. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43728	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, the bill is certainly in the function of economic development and that in 2012 citizens did not say they wanted to change and that by any chance this policy would have its continuity, today someone here in this Assembly would be discussing whether seven or even eight pensions would be paid in this year. Today pensions are paid on a regular basis, and after the adoption of this bill, all pensions will be higher in the amount of 8.4 to 13.3% compared to the level of 2014 before the Interim Reduction Act. So all pensions, of course, and most of those that haven't been cut at all. The fact that the pension fund grant from the budget was about 60% is a sign that something in the financial part was wrong, more specifically that it threatened disaster, bankruptcy. Today's donation is 31% from the budget. And what contributed to that report, catastrophically, of 60%, that it had to be touched from the budget to the pension fund? Well, it helped that 400,000 people were out of work from 2008 to 2012. It's all sold out, nothing is invested in economic growth, and the representatives of this opposition alliance, where in this part of the hall where they're gathering I see only one man, more specifically this is a security gentleman, I apologize, I didn't want to offend him, but it's nice and rare to see an honest man in that part of the hall, so their leader has a reference, and yesterday was the subject of maternity, pensioners, social giving, their leader, Dragan Gilas, has the next reference in the area. Namely, when he left the mayor's post, he left a debt of 235 million dinars to pregnant women and maternity families, 254 million dinars to pensioners and 123 million dinars to single aid. So these are probably spontaneous debts, as well as the 1.2 billion-euro debt in the city of Belgrade, probably the same spontaneous debt, as were spontaneous gatherings conducted by these people from the alliance, titled "Moms are the law". But here, I also listed millions of reasons that were much greater reasons for spontaneous gathering, but it seems that those portals that financed them lacked some spontaneity. Of course, Dragan Gilas had an explanation for that part of the public, namely voters who did not support this policy, he did an exceptional analysis and said the SNS won 55% in Belgrade, the SPS 6%, so 61%, and says -- these other 49% who voted apparently were not satisfied with the way the government worked. I've been saying the numbers very carefully. So by it 55 plus six plus 49 is equal to 100. The exact number and the amount of 110 tell us the subconscious of this man, the leader, the alliance for spontaneous theft, and that 10%. When Serbia got rid of its co-workers who had 10% nicknames, our GDP grew to that number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43729	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43730	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this member with the position I have proposed, are further defining the draft of this law. The assumption of our country's development is the adoption of good laws and other documents, creating favourable conditions for new investment and job creation, as well as for the realisation of projects of vital importance for citizens. The Serbian government is constantly working to make our health system more efficient and better on real and sustainable grounds, providing quality health services to citizens in new and renowned health institutions, getting the most modern medical equipment and appliances, hiring the best graduate medical students, as well as investing in the expertise and training of young doctors. Since the beginning of this year alone, more than 2,000 health workers have been employed indefinitely in health institutions throughout Serbia. Since 2014, more than 10,000 healthcare professionals have been employed and more than 6,000 specializations have been approved, mostly from the deficitary branches of medicine. At the end of this year, young experts from these areas will be able to replace their senior retired colleagues with dignity and quality. At the same time, hundreds of young doctors, the best students of state medical schools a few months ago, received a job at health institutions throughout Serbia. This practice will continue in the future, for every six months, the medical college will deliver the names of the best graduates, so that the state will include them in Serbia's health system by hiring indefinitely and investing in their professional training. This is how the state keeps and keeps the best personnel in its health system, because it wants citizens to be taken care of by the best doctors. At the same time, they provide specializations and doctoral studies, therefore, to further improve and raise their professional capacities. The realisation of all these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43731	Thank you, colleague Popovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43732	I thank you, Chairman Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, amendments and additions to this law are encouraged to develop the Republic of Serbia and increase agricultural investment. At the very beginning of this exhibition, I would like to thank all pensioners who had an understanding for their country when it was the most difficult and austerity measures to give our country a better chance. I am pleased that finally pensioners will have higher pensions, between 9% and 13%, compared to 2014, before the temporary pension cuts. As an example of good practice, I quote Leskovac, a city from which I come. The highest percentage of the inactive population in Leskovac is 21.50%, while in second place children are under 15 years of 14.57%. Of the total population, 54.73% of the population deals with agriculture. Accordingly, the town of Leskovac places a major emphasis on rural development and incentives in the area of agriculture. From the city register in the name of incentives, I will underline, in agriculture from 2013 to 2017, more than 127 million dinars were paid. In December alone last year, 823 agricultural producers amounting to nearly 18 million dinars were paid. In the period from 2014 to 2017, farmers in total of 3.320 received subsidies. From 2014 to 2017, 11 million dinars were spent from the city of Leskovci's budget for the purchase of anti-building missiles that were distributed to the shooters. In 2015, the Leskovec Agricultural Development Fund launched a competition on the programme of measures of subsidized interest on long-term agricultural credits. Based on this competition, 101 agricultural producers met the conditions and obtained the right to return 50.3% of the interest. In 2018, payment of financial incentives amounting to six million dinars is planned. According to the programme of measures, modernisation and technical equipment of agricultural producers, associations and cooperatives, the right to incentives has been achieved by 1,515 agricultural producers, and out of this number 33 have received musicians, and 73 agricultural producers have achieved incentives to purchase atomised. There was also a competition under the programme of measures to improve production in the protected area, plastic production, the right to encourage achieved 360 agricultural producers for the purchase of plastic foil. In previous years, the town of Leskovac, through the Fund for the Development of Agriculture of the town of Leskovac, supported the following events: "Days of Višnje" in the village of Lipovica, "Days of Kruške" in Vucje, "Days of Jagoda" in the village of Dusanovo, "Days of Potato" in Pečevac, "Days of paprika" in the village of Donja Lokošnica, the Fair of Traditional Products and Handicrafts of Serbia organised by the House of Culture of Brestovac, the Fair of Wooden Ajvar and winters organised by the association in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Also, in 2014, 2015 and 2016, with the financial participation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry, Leskovac achieved several very important projects, and the ministry participated up to 70% of the project value. The first rehabilitation and arrangement of the Atarian roads, the project included 90 of the 144 populated sites, and the value of the projects per three years is 62 million dinars. A total of 167km of atar roads were recovered. The ministry helped the city in 2014 with 60%, in 2015 with 50%, and in 2016 with 47% of the project value. Also, the land-composing project covers 1,100 hectares in three populated areas. The project is worth 22 million dinars. The project was implemented in 2014, 2015 and 2016. The ministry also took part with 70% of the total funds invested. The realization of the project was achieved with 81%, and the depletion of old vine plantations and fruit plantations covered these projects with 165 hectares in three populated cities. The project is worth 29 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43733	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP of the people, Snezana R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43734	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, objective of the amendment that I have submitted to Article 1. The draft law which is amended in Article 12 by adding a new position 2 is an additional definition of Article 1. The law, which also encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to tax liability. The existing Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is changed with eight new members, and they are certainly the most important that, with the achievement of the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system, it will be harmonised according to the rules governing the budget and in line with the economic opportunities of the state. So positive economic movements allow for certain measures that lead to the improvement of pensioners' standards, i.e. The possibility of paying a larger amount of money in the name of the raise, depending on the economic developments and financial opportunities of Serbia's budget. According to the above, the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine the conditions, height and dynamics of payment, and it is possible that the pension and disability insurance fund's money can be extremely used to pay out pensioners' money. Positive economic movements and growth of the gross social product have enabled the suspension of the Law on the temporary management of the way pensions are paid and thus contributed to a significant increase in pensions and the improvement of the standard of life of our oldest citizens. Thanks to favourable economic opportunities, a large inflow of foreign investment, the opening of new factories, and hence new jobs, conditions are created to increase wages and pensions and improve the living conditions of all citizens and pensioners. All of the above, when it comes to favourable economic developments, has a direct impact on tax system regulation, through improved tax collection and an increase in the tax liability of all economic operators and all other taxpayers. Due to all the good proposals for the law of the proposed law, we will support the proposed law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43735	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43736	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to be made in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act adds Article 2 which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the development and improvement of the public health system." Accordingly, I would like to remind myself of what public health is, that it is a set of knowledge, skills and activities aimed at improving health, preventing and combating diseases, extending life, improving the quality of life through organised measures conducted by society. In fact, each health system is one of the most complex systems in any country. Each state has an obligation to take care of and care for the health of its population. The health care system covers a health infrastructure that provides a spectrum of programmes and services and provides health care to individuals, families and the whole community. The health system ensures that physical, geographical and economically accessible and accessible integrated and quality health care is available, and that is exactly what this Government is doing. It is about developing health personnel of sustainability, funding, decentralisation of governance and financing of health care and putting citizens at the heart of the health system. The purpose of the healthcare system is to preserve, improve people's health by providing health services to citizens, both modern and traditional medicine in an efficient way, which are at the same time accessible and acceptable to citizens and we are doing so. Serbia is implementing a number of measures in the planning and management of the health system to ensure a sound and quality system of healthcare, all in order to provide the population with necessary and necessary healthcare within the framework of the available funds. In fact, I would like to remind you that the vulmerable and sensitive groups of citizens include over 65 years of life, therefore, and our pensioners. Pensioners expect the state and financial empowerment, aimed at these amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, but also to provide them with good, quality and accessible health care. I would like to mention that in this year, the PIO Fund provided for an amount of 392,942,80,00 dinars to finance the rehabilitation of pensioners, i.e. It is a banjska treatment in rehabilitation centres across Serbia, such as Niška Banja, Vrnjačka Banja, Prolom Banja, Lukovska Banja, Melenci, and a total of 24 baths, and just to remind the spas are health recreational centres. On this occasion, I would like to thank the pensioners, to express my gratitude for putting up with the greatest burden of economic reform to come into today's situation to discuss their financial empowerment on a real basis. Also, I want to strongly condemn the monstrous and mental threats on Twitter's prime minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, the whole of Serbia, every normal man is appalled by these threats, by the proscration and vulgarities addressed to all women of Serbia, but who dream that in this way, through force, threats will come to power, they will not happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43737	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43738	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. The pension system is one of the most complex systems in society. In the first place, it refers directly or indirectly to almost all the citizens of our country. Any change relating to the pension system affects current users, but also future generations, so that the circle of faces for which each change and supplement has an exceptional significance. On the other hand, the pension system is dependent on demographic flows and economic conditions in the country. In 2014, pensioners suffered the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation. With the government of the Republic of Serbia's responsible policy, pensioners with minimum incomes of up to 25.00 were exempt from reduction. Such a policy has stopped the deficit, and the surplus has increased year by year so that in the first half of 2018 it is 30.9 billion which is better than planned, and the public debt has been reduced from 74.5 in 2015 to 59.9 this year. So Serbia has achieved the biggest GDP growth for the first six months of 2018, and only Poland is ahead of us. By adopting the Amendments and Supplements proposal of the PIO Act, pensions will on average be increased from 8.8% to 13.2%. This is certainly the result of responsible economic policy and confirms the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic is making economic decisions, not political decisions and is managed by the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The increase in pensions based on these economic criteria and concrete results ensures long-term sustainability and stability. I therefore believe that the effect that the Amendment on amendments and additions of the Law has to be achieved on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is achieved by the amendment that I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43739	Thank you, colleague Savkic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43740	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted an amendment in order to try to contribute to the overall positive effect of this law. In recent days, we have been listening to a lot of stories about increasing pensions, citing the former regime as saying there will be no increase in pensions, and it should certainly be pointed out that Serbian citizens know the real truth and have shown this from the election cycle in the election cycle. There will be an increase in pensions from 8.8% to 13%, and the pensioners actually understood this measure that the government took in 2014. The question arises mainly why the government had to take these measures. In 2014, the Council adopted The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, was forced to lead to a series of reforms that included economic consolidation. The former regime has failed to consolidate the financing of the Republic of Serbia. In 2002, they came to power with a story that they would implement comprehensive reforms in the Republic of Serbia, introduce Serbia into the EU, lead to prosperity, but what they did is that they filled their personal pockets with money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia alone. Today, we are really wondering how these same people who have been dealing exclusively with personal finances since 2002, today can come out here in front of Serbian citizens with a story that they are very concerned about both pensioners and mothers and all of our citizens living here and who in the elections show that they are now supporting Alexander Vukic's policy, not their false concern that brings them nowhere. In fact, they must not even go out today with their name in any election, hiding behind different alliances, NGOs and all that to try to power in some way, however, they will not be able to do so. Serbian citizens clearly recognise the real policy, SNS' responsible policy, Aleksandra Vukic, and show this from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43741	Thank you, fellow Maletic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43742	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, the reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to further regulate the pension and disability insurance system, and the main objective of the reform is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will ensure the safety and future generations of pensioners. We all know that in 2012, after coming to the power of the SNS, they were launched through the necessary reforms in Serbia. The state has been brought to the brink of complete collapse, shut down factories with robbery privatisations, hundreds of thousands of people left out on the streets without a job, and pensions increased only on the basis of coalition agreements, ahead of elections with unreal growth. It went into reforms without which there would be no pensions today. At that moment, a difficult and unpopular move to cut pensions is being made, but effective and only possible, which proved later. The pensioners understood that and thank them for it and for that we have more regular and secure pensions today than ever a state that is fully fiscally consolidated. How many Serbian citizens believed in Alexander Vukic's and SNS' policies speak of election results and convincing support for citizens both in 2014 and 2016 and in 2017, just at a time when difficult reforms were carried out. I don't think I have to explain to you what it looks like today, except for this association that's too much for the Alliance for Serbia, which, I see, is absolutely nothing. I've been asking around a few professional people about cases like this and phenomena, there's a lot of them in our MP group, who say there's no help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43743	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dalibor Radčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43744	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in order to further define the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. This article shall be amended by Article 12, and this way shall be subject to compliance with the provisions of the Business Society Act. With the amendment, I tried to point out the importance of industrialisation as a major factor affecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the pension fund to be stable and not question the regular payment of pensions to our oldest citizens, who have earned it, it is necessary to have a regular inflow of funds by economic operators working on our country's territory. We all know that in the past this fund has been completely destroyed, and to this extent it has produced a successful privatisation that has closed all production companies that, by creating new values, have filled the budget. Pensioners have filed the burden of the necessary reforms and today we are in a position to, by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the law, return temporarily reduced pensions and not only return them to the 2014 level. By increasing from 5% in the October check, pensioners will have a real increase of 8% to 13% compared to the period when pensions are reduced. How many Serbian citizens understood the necessity of predicting unpopular measures, such as reducing pensions, we could also see in the 2016 elections, where the SNS won an even higher percentage of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43745	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid ceases to be valid at the end of 30.09.2018. This means that October pensions will be paid without a reduction and that is good news for all our citizens, and above all for more than 1,700,000 pensioners. The law was passed four years ago as one of the many fiscal consolidation measures, as a condition that the pension would have been at all. Serbia was in front of bankruptcy at the time and was almost already in debt slavery, and the number of insurance companies was slightly higher than the number of users of the disability-retirement rights. Even 59% of pensions were paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which was then 13.2% of GDP. Today, when we talk about the proposed law, about amendments and additions to the Law on PIO, Serbia is thanks to Aleksandar Vukic and SNS policy a country of dynamic growth and development, organized and much stronger country than the one the previous regime left us in 2012. With a responsible fiscal consolidation policy, it succeeded in creating a budget surplus for the third year in a row, seducing market order and discipline, reducing unemployment from 26% to 11.9% and achieving GDP growth today from 4.9%. Thus, it improved the relationship between insurance and users and reduced budget grants from 59% to 31%, which is in line with the projected fiscal rule of 11% of GDP. Thanks to the results achieved and the religion of the pensioners, because by their strength and understanding they have drawn Serbia from the difficult crisis and situation in the budget, we are able to adopt this bill in the day of voting and thus provide a better position for all pensioners. The Serbian Progressive Party has won all elections convincingly since 2014. Aleksandar Vucic won the presidential election in the first election round, in this Principal, from which I come, with a percentage of 70.2%, and such a result was contributed by significant pensioners from the New Prince who well understood the need to adopt the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid, because they knew and believed it was a measure for a better future for Serbia and themselves. The overall development of Serbia and its local self-government will be contributed to by insurance companies who are more and more daily as a result of numerous foreign and domestic investments, the construction of production facilities and the creation of new jobs, the infection from the period when the previous regime carried out the robbery privatisation, closed factories and drove more than 400,000 workers to the street, and left pensioners without pension for a little while. In voting day, SNS MPs will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43747	Thank you, colleague Jancic. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43748	Dear Chairman Milicevic, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, in the presentation of Minister Djordjevic, we heard key changes to the Law on PIO. Before I look back at my amendment, I can't help but notice the baseless criticisms of my colleagues across the street, who, for God's sake, care for the citizens because their pensions were reduced in 2014. I sincerely hope so, and the citizens know that this happened precisely because of the irresponsible leadership of the state, because of the robbery privatisation, and because of the increase in wages and pensions, and that there was no economic justification for it. At that time, on 28.08.2008, the Serbian government adopted a proposal to increase pensions in October of that year, with a regular increase, by 10%. The government's decision was also announced by the IMF, as did World Bank Director for Southeast Europe Jane Armitridge, where they estimated that the announced increase was not sustainable and that such a decision led to an even greater increase in budget deficits, which resulted in a deficit of 54.7 billion in 2008 and in the first half of 2018, the surplus amounted to 30.9 billion. No, they didn't pay attention. They needed votes for the elections and, worse still, they tasked Serbia and its citizens with loans at high interest rates, which we are returning today, every citizen of the country. Only with the responsible policy of the then prime minister, and today President Aleksandar Vukic and Vlada, ceases to apply the Law on the provisional arrangement of the 2017 pension payment method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43749	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43750	Ladies and gentlemen, in the focus of the law we are discussing these days, the people we thank unequivocally for their contribution to stabilising economic opportunities in Serbia. However, we must not forget who these people are. These are those generations that survive the separation of the state, civil wars, the aggression of the most powerful force in the world. They survived the hyperinflation in which they provided all their work and effort. They have survived many calamities, and of course that is why we should be additionally grateful for the sacrifice they have endured. They kept their families and fought for the survival of their families, but they were also aware of their responsibilities towards the state and were always ready to sacrifice for the country, for our Serbia. As a doctor, I testify that today many of these people have problems, serious health problems precisely because of the fact that they lived in the conditions I was just talking about. Of course, this concept that will enable, among other things, the real increase in their pensions and how fair, but other than that, if you ask these people what they would like, they would say in the first place that they want peace in this country, that they want prosperous development, that they create conditions that their children and grandchildren stay in this country to work and live and to have new generations, or many more children than they do now. So the responsibility these generations have toward our country is something we must admire and give thanks at all times. The humanity of a society is reflected precisely in its relationship with vulnerable categories of the population. With that in mind and with all the positive changes that occur in society in all sectors, I believe that our society will have this human character and that at any moment they will know that they will reward the generations that have suffered the greatest sacrifices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43751	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Fired Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43752	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the PIO Act, it must be mentioned that the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, the economy, new investments and new employment, as this improves the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners. It is certain that we today would not be able to discuss this law if there had been no good work, new investments and new jobs in the past. What are these investments that led to us having these very good results today? Large infrastructure projects are under way, a highway to Montenegro is being built, towards Bulgaria, towards Greece. The plan includes corridors belonging to Corridor 11, Corridor 10 towards Sarajevo and Republika Srpska. All these areas where these highways pass further influence their attractiveness and new investments occur. I will mention a project that is very current, now during a visit by President Vukic China, a contract was signed on the construction of an industrial park in Borca, where the largest technological gigans from China are expected to arrive. Also, during a visit by Minister Popovic China, already 40 companies from China signed agreements on interest in participating in the project. About 1,000 companies are expected to arrive and over 10,000 new jobs. These are the best ways, as I said at first, to fix the relationship between the number of insurance companies and pensioners and that we today can adopt one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43753	I thank my colleague Pantovic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43754	I thank the chairman. Honorable Ministers with Associates, in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to be amended in Article 12. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act adds a new position 2 which reads – This law encourages the development of the Republic of Serbia and related to better access to economic resources. The amendment further defines Article 1 of this Law and the proposed amendment aims to encourage the development of the Republic of Serbia to make better use of the economic potential and economic resources that our country has. The development of the Republic of Serbia is a priority of this government and development is encouraged through the fight to reduce the grey economy and work on black, and people as an economic resource become more valuable and more protected. Self-employed insurance undertakings within the meaning of Article 12. The Law on PIOs proposed changes and additions are becoming more valuable economic resource, contribute more to the country's development and can be sure that their rights are respected in accordance with the law. The country's development and better access to economic resources, in this case to people as part of the country's economic resource, remains the priority of this government, which, even through the adoption of this law, confirms it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43755	I thank my colleague Jolovic. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Igor Becic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43756	Dear Chairman, this government has returned dignity and the future to pensioners unlike the "yellow company". While Gilas's "journalists" are trying to hide the fact that their leader today owns 24m euros and has destroyed the financing of the city of Belgrade and has devastated the PKK and they now want to bring Serbia back to the mud and hopelessness in which the citizens were until 2012, robbed in privatisation, left on the street without being able to employ, destroyed public finances, devastated businesses and with all parameters in the historic downturn. Now that President Vukic is implementing reforms that are welcomed by all European and world officials, who have the courage to open up all topics and talk about what is not popular today, speak in politics, fight for every open job, bringing in hundreds and thousands of jobs. Now we have a clear inflow of foreign investment, a rate of economic growth, a decrease in public debt, and the unemployment rate is about 12%. We now also have a different business picture of Serbia, while the leaders of the Gilas Alliance for Change are again trying to change the image of Serbia that is strong in reforms and improve the quality of life of citizens. Its policy is for Serbia to be recognised again for its lack of hope, corruption, robbery of state funds and for the threats of political insolents who reach so much that these leaders like Obradovic, who beat women in RIK, and his friends like Zeljko Veseinovic, are threatening to rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43757	Thank you, colleague Becic. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43758	Here's what I'm gonna do to say what the predecessors didn't say, because I'm 111 in a row. I think it should be said that the conditions are created that pensions are never more, while we are in power, are not less than to be greater or equal, which is for pensioners and workers who receive salaries very important. The second thing I'm trying to say is that pensions directly affect GDP growth and that's why it's very easy and very soft to increase pensions. The most profitable thing is to increase pensions. Why? Because the money paid out of the budget, from the funds, the pensioners at a high percentage, I would argue 90%, return to the budget and to the funds. That's the personal consumption, that's the sum, that's one of the four terms that increase GDP. Therefore, pensioners must be optimistic that in the coming period, the state will safely increase pensions when there is funding in the budget. Why? Because that money will come back to the budget. Now I'm taking this opportunity to say, no one said that, very important for pensions, for wages, is that the dinar is stable. The dinar is stable, because I think now, I have information that we in the vault have about 20.73 tons of gold. Last time I talked about a dollar and a gold lining. Now I'm going to say something about GDP. There's a minister, so let him hear what I think about it. Minister, just one moment. So GDP is an American category, introduced for multinational companies. For our development, for the assessment of our development and our progress, it is much better to return to gross national income, because gross national income shows a more faithful situation for developing countries. So, right now, there's a showdown on the suit, that's what the American vault did. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43759	Thank you, Professor Yokic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43760	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the fiscal consolidation measures we took when the country was in very difficult shape with the robbed Pension Fund, with the destroyed economy, with huge unemployment, debts and loans gave us their results. Saving isn't the only measure we've taken. The whole package of measures had to be applied today, or for several years in a row in the budget, to have surpluses, to build highways, to build hospitals, to open factories. Our pensioners, who have given the most support to the state at times when it was most important for the state, must be sure that they have shown their support to the younger ones what is really a responsibility. It is now our responsibility for young people to improve their quality of life through pension increases, and through the opening of factories we strengthen Serbia's economy, because only a strong economy leads Serbia forward. Serbia is second at the rate of growth in Europe and it is clear that the country will continue to develop economically, and that is the basis for raising the standard of living for our citizens. Retirement increases will be after this year, and it will be because we will work to make our economy grow. A powerful economy in itself will be a guarantee of a better standard of living, because it gives certainty that we can spend after we've earned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43761	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been listening for days to see how we've taken someone's pensions. We want to pay off our pensions. It's hard to explain to this Gilas bullulment, which, when it ruled, didn't matter to them that the economy was making money. They did not live on the earner, but on the man in charge. Pensions were not divided from what was earned, they were divided from debt and from the sale of capital. By selling capital, the sale of the factory eliminated 400,000 insurance companies and then managed to make sure they knew and knew and could and additionally owed the country to pay their pensions. It had its limits, and that limit was called inflation. So, the moment other people's money was being bought, inflation, or price hikes, that was between 7% and 10%. This government doesn't want that. What I think, which is to correct injustices against farmers. They're people who don't know what flying is, what wintering is. These are the people who funded Balshi Bozovica Maldives. In order for Balsa Bozovic to spend 15,000 euros, to be able to spend 1,500 euros a day on vacation, someone had to earn that money. It's certainly peasants and workers, brothers in pain, brothers in sweat, brothers in blisters, because I still feel that money is earned and that we have to live off the earned, and they don't know how money is made, but only how it's spent. That's why this country came into that position. The best example is the PKK. So, with the union union of Djordjevic, Dragan Djilas, the head of the new coalition, which Bosko Obradovic also swore to, the chief commander translated the PKK into a city house. At a time when he was making huge money on his private companies, and he earned 100m euros, and to remind me that it was 500,000 pensions, and my fellow farmers to remind him that it was a million peasant pensions, so at a time when he earned 100m euros in his private company, he made a debt of 87m euros in the PKK, along with unionist Milisava Djordjevic, who, behold, is now on his election list and a committee member in the city of Belgrade. I ask this government to examine in detail how in just a year, the PKB of 2 million and 400 million dinars came to a debt of nine billion and 900 million dinars, which was one hundred million euros or 7.5 billion of our dinars. So, the debt he made in the PKK, which was the city's company at the time, shows that Dragan Djilas, the head of this new coalition, sworn by Bosko Obradović LJotic, had two business models. One model was when it was a private company, it was made, and on the other hand, when it came to the city's PKK company, there was huge losses. I want to believe and firmly believe that there has been a spillage, a team before his management at that time, with the support of unionist Djordjevic, who is now his committee member, brought from Delta, the first three directors, who were all they bought that year when an astronomical loss was made, bought from Delta, including from tractors to bay systems. They also made stables, by three stables, for seven million euros, made by a company from Kickinda, which was called "Turbo Gas", and which had one employee, whose owner bought a field of only 90 euros, which is a hundred times higher than the price, to launder money and earn money for bribery of trust and Dragan Gilas himself. This has led peasants to have a pension of 100 euros, to have a pension less than social assistance and to make the message that it is better to be a social case than a peasant. With this practice should be interrupted and in the future I want the peasant pensions and at least a little more equal to the largest, that the range be not one to ten, one to thirteen, that the range be at least one to five, because all people, all of our old people deserve a decent age, appropriate pensions at the appropriate amount, but that we intergenerational solidarity for them, not to pay them out of credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43763	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43764	Thank you, Chairman. It is known that the proportion of pensioners and employees in Serbia has been almost even in recent years and that, according to the PIO Fund in 2017, this relationship was 1 to 1.5. This meant that every three employed workers must withdraw from their gross salaries contributions to even two pensioners. This ratio of pensioners and employees certainly could not ensure that the contributions of pension and disability insurance employees, as one source of funding, provided sufficient resources to the PIO Fund, i.e. provide funding for pension payments, since the property held by the PIO Fund was off-duty, mainly, it was not a source of income, but, unfortunately, a source of expenditure and additionally burdened the Fund. Let us just remember, for example, the Kursumli spa that has been in operation for many years because of the reckless relationship, both the PIO Fund, as the majority owner, and the state in the previous period, decorated in the yellow government that did not care about the fate of the Kursumliska Banje, but not about other spas and resorts in the country. Therefore, all those who know what sources of funding of the PIO Fund know that for years only part of the Fund has been covered from the contributions of pension and disability insurance employees, and that the state in the budget and other ways, loans, unfortunately, has had to supplement the Fund for years back until the amount necessary to pay off the pension. Unfortunately, representatives of the yellow government did not seem to worry either who, nor how they would repay these loans, so even for pre-election purposes, they also covered pension increases, in debt and destroying the state more and more ruthlessly. That is why it was clear to all those who were thinking maturely why, in 2014, then, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic resorted to making the most difficult political decisions to survive, because Serbia was facing bankruptcy because of those yellow politicians who took the country to ruin. Today, thanks to the economic results that are visible and the patience of pensioners who made their biggest contribution to Serbia's better future, the future of their children and grandsons and who have taken Serbia out of the crisis, we have been able to bring this new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO and in a practical and essential way to abolish the Law on the provisional determination of the way in which pensions were paid, which, in my deep conviction, was the right move and which fulfilled its expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43765	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43766	I thank the chairman. In Article 1 of the proposed law, I have proposed an amendment that further defines it. In November, much higher pensions will be paid, from 8.8% to 13% higher than in 2014. The goal now is to continue reforms, with the healing and the creation of long-term sustainability of growth and pension increases. All processes that provide perspective must continue, from administration reforms, through completion of the restructuring process to further infrastructure development projects and further employment. We can't stop now. This is why we have valuable political stability, because this government knows what it's doing, knows how to solve decades of problems and how to overcome all obstacles. We are struggling with the greatest effort to encourage an increase in the birth rate, as fewer children were born in Serbia because of unemployment and debt, because we were on the way to a higher number of pensioners than the number of employees. This is another important motive for us to continue in the same direction even faster, to build schools and kindergartens, because Serbia needs children and young people, to open factories and continue to employ our citizens, because we want strong Serbia. Citizens of Serbia, remember, over the past few years, we have been criticised and deceived by just those who have reduced the number of jobs between 2001 and 2012, by more than 400,000, by those who have filled their stomachs and pockets, by those who have destroyed our economy, by those who drive in jeeps, who have illegally built and enjoyed your account, by those who support violence. They are the ones who led to the collapse in 2014. This pension increase will bring with it stability and additional security, because there is a large number of you who are not using your pensions for yourself, but to help your grandchildren and children. You gave us your trust and this government fought back through Serbia's progress, development and maintaining financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43767	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43768	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to a member of the law, to Article 1, specifically related to the PIO Fund, where I am putting an emphasis on underdeveloped areas, on mountainous and mountainous areas, because I come from such areas. Otherwise, in Serbia, we have a large number of municipalities where there are opportunities to gain even greater profits with higher investment, and the Serbian state, headed by our president, has been doing this for five or six years, investing in small municipalities and results are visible, we have a larger number of employees. Tomorrow, we open two plants in Nis, two companies that will employ close to three thousand workers in the next three years, companies that will employ highly educated and professional people and through such investment will have higher salaries, where we will have the opportunity to increase pensions through a real basis, cancel the decision, the law we made in 2014 and return the pensions that were in 2014. What the government is doing means it's a real thing and it's all visible. At the same time, here in the Assembly, I represent the USS and all my amendments I have submitted are amendments that I support the development of underdeveloped areas, rural development, agriculture. Normally, we all expect that changes will take place in the next period and that the law will be tied to agricultural producers where we will find solutions to increase pensions, but only on realistic grounds. Otherwise, we are witnessing that over the past years and this year nearly 300 new cooperatives have formed. Through investments in cooperatives, new people are employed, thousands of people are employed in these new cooperatives, and in this way we will develop agriculture. By investing in agriculture, investing in cooperatives, investing in underdeveloped areas, mountain-mounted areas, investing in tourism, rural tourism, hunting tourism is a chance to develop underdeveloped areas. I call on all fellow Members to vote in favour of my proposals, for my amendments, because I am sure that by adopting both this law and my amendments, we will have the opportunity to improve our lives with small municipalities. Once again, I thank our minister, Mr. Djordjevic, for giving the proposals of the law wind in the back to undeveloped areas, our agricultural producers and all that is needed in our municipalities, and that is, for one thing, a good word, and now direct investment to which we give wind back to developing underdeveloped areas. I call once again on all my colleagues to vote in favour of my amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43769	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. My colleague Tomic, before we continue to work, only one piece of information when it comes to this part of the debate. The SNS parliamentary group doesn't have any time left. Of course, the applicants of the amendment, according to the Rules of Procedure, for up to two minutes, and you, as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, are 11 minutes 29 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43770	Thank you, Chairman. I've been using two minutes as an amendment promoter. My amendment refers to amendments and additions to this law, that it is necessary to add an attitude that gives a special accent to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that our prime minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, opened a sub-regional conference on the progress and implementation of the 2030 Agenda at the Serbian Palace on 13 September that essentially shows a new concept that is on the world stage when it comes to the change of society at all. When we talk about pensions and Serbia's future, it should be said that Serbia is moving forward with the world, especially when it comes to sustainable development, which is the first goal of reducing poverty, and the second goal is the number eight target of inclusive and sustainable economic growth in employment and decent work. What is important to say then is that the prime minister said that just the accent on these topics shows also the strengthening of institutions when it comes to implementing the 2030 Agenda, which says that Serbia has done a lot in the previous four years and the reform of the pension system, but in terms of Serbia's economic reform. That's why we have a large number of investors coming from both the East and the West today, but it's interesting to say when you look at 2014 that we were in that year, just when we introduced the part relating to pension cuts, or just 39% of pensioners with pensions above 25,000, shows that even then we had a large number of companies that opened their production lines. Today it's big countries that announced big investments, like China. So 1.5 billion euros will go into Bor, one billion will go to Kikind through investment. We had "Zelezar Smederevo" with 350m euros in investments by the Chinese company Hestil. What I'm trying to say is, we're going in at a time of great economic growth with big investments, and these pensioners in the future don't have to worry about harmonising pensions, because their pensions are going to get bigger and bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43771	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43772	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I have sent an amendment to Article 1 of this truly high-quality bill and in this amendment is exactly what I have been up to lately and I keep mentioning, and this is my attempt to support the efforts, above all, of the President of the Republic and of this Government and of this assembly majority in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving sustainable development. If there was someone in those creepy empty benches across the street they'd probably ask -- what's sustainable development got to do with this law? There is. In order to clarify and explain why reading you one of the definitions of sustainable development from a long time ago, given by Rutvand's commission, it was the UN commission, which dealt with the topic. It says – sustainable development is a development that meets the needs of the present, apostrophe, the present, without questioning the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It is precisely this definition that the difference between us and SNS and those who ruled until 2012. They didn't think about the future, they didn't even think about the past unfortunately. We think about the future and therefore the measures that were adopted in 2014 were necessary, as are now, the measures in 2018 that we are just bringing about a causal relationship. So we're thinking about the future. We thought about the future of our pensioners, which they helped us in, but above all they thought about the future of our generations, our young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43773	I thank my colleague Bojanic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43774	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO and amendments refers to the fact that this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. If that were true, it was in practice. In the previous four years, we had significant increases and pensions and wages in the public sector, and this directly reflected in the aggregate demand, which raised the overall economic activity in our country. When the state was on the verge of bankruptcy, as was the case with our economy in 2012, there were two solutions. One is to continue the negative trend of the previous regime, to further borrow and thereby burden the next generations, our children and grandchildren, which is economically completely unwarranted and pointless or to reduce consumption and save. That we have made the right decision in 2014 testifys to the results we have achieved, and that the citizens believed us even then and now speak the results in the elections in 2012 and 2014, in 2016, but also in 2018. Our government achieved fantastic results in the previous period through responsible policy, economic decisions. We have an economic growth of almost 5%, which is the largest economic growth in the region, but also in Europe. Then we have three years in a row of budget surpluses. We have an extremely low inflation rate several years in a row backwards. We managed to fully stabilise public finances, but also to increase public revenues, we encouraged both business and citizens to fiscal responsibility, we reduced the unemployment rate because every tax-based inflow means more schools, more kindergartens, more hospitals, more kilometers of highways and more domestic and foreign investments, as well as capital investments, which is certainly good for the citizens, but also for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43775	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43776	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity of the amendments I have endured is the persistent fight against crime as one monster that has destroyed our society and is a threat to many other societies. In my opinion, the most important thing in political life is the fulfillment of promises and the achievement of results by not entering crime, regardless of all the hatred and threats surrounding you. Hate in the last days is unfortunately not lacking, especially the hatred that comes from this new opposition bloc, the new DOS. You have seen serious threats to the president of the state and his family, serious physical attacks on members of SNS in Sapac and on members of their families, serious insults and threats by the prime minister, and ultimately serious threats to Serbia because they are threatening to, they say, unless they take power without elections to bring Serbia into chaos and emergency. It's not just hate now, you'll understand. It's also a serious crime. It is a violation of the law, of all the rules, at the end of the day and a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, you have a promise made in the exposés of more Prime Minister Vukic and later Prime Minister Brnabic. There are also reductions in some concrete things, public debt cuts, deficit cuts, inflation cuts, employment cuts, and you have results in the end that are very easily verifiable. You have success for Serbia in terms of not reducing the deficits but of the situation that we have no deficits at all, and of reducing inflation to a decent level that is very envious and at the level of some developed European countries. You have a reduction in the unemployment rate. You have a serious economic growth of 3% compared to the fall you've had before and this amendment of mine that is exactly the difference between these two things, between crime and hatred on the one hand and these successes that lower the government on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43777	I thank my colleague, Vujadinovic. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43778	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which reads - this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to improving health care. Pensioners are a special category of population to pay special attention to when it comes to health care and health. The application of this law will have effects not only in the area of pension-inhabited insurance, but also in the area of the overall economy, as well as in the absence of the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, the consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations could be produced. It is important to say that the pension level returns to the level without diminishing due to the results of economic positive movements. It is time for pensioners to benefit from the country's economic improvement, as they have borne the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation. Therefore, a special commitment should be made to the health care of pensioners, protection is more effective if the country is economically strengthened. The pension reform should meet two mutually opposed objectives, the adequateness of pensions and financial sustainability. The main objective of all changes is to adapt mandatory pension and disability insurance, as the most important part of the pension system, demographic change, economic circumstances and the country's strategic definition of establishing a modern and more efficient administration. I would especially like to commend, to highlight the thanks of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, for the risky, courageous decision to move towards reforms that have led to economic success in Serbia. It was risky, the country was in front of bankruptcy, but the pensioners trusted President Vukic and therefore led to this economic success.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43779	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43780	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Law on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, today and these days, which attracted the public's attention the most, is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. With this bill, the Government of the Republic of Serbia led the SNS, fulfilled the promise then made by the Prime Minister, and today's President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, gave the oldest citizens, that pensions, when conditions are obtained, would be returned to the level before the introduction of the Law on Temporary Regulation on how pensions are paid in 2014. Right now, let's clarify, dear fellow citizens, the difference between the reduction and the ugly words we've been hearing these days has been large, now they've gained conditions that can pay off something that's real. This reduction decision was difficult, but correct. Today, the Republic of Serbia is an economically stable country, with a second year in a row of surpluses in the republican budget. I would like to remind you that after this difficult 2014 decision, the SNS in the 2016 parliamentary elections increased its already huge support to the electoral body of the Republic of Serbia, by about 60,000 votes, which would mean that it received seven new votes in each polling post. In the 2017 presidential elections, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, meanwhile, won by over 55 votes from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens know who to trust, and that's when you look at everything logically. What alternative the former government offers them, and today's opposition. The alternative is the return of the tycoon to Gilas and similar ones, such as Zeljko Veseninović, a man who threatens to rape and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43781	Thank you. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43782	I will talk about a problem facing 200 refugee families in the Ovca area of Belgrade. Namely, refugee families moved into apartments in the village of Ovca on March 5th. However, Infostan has sent them accounts for the total electricity in large amounts over the past few months, asking them to pay total electricity for the period before 5 March, and these costs should be borne by the investor. People are bitter. People think it is not fair, that it is not fair and that the Commissioner for Refugees in co-operation with the city administration, Infostan, the investor, resolves the issue. I'll just give you a few examples. For example, Vukashin Pishma was given to pay for shared electricity, and this applies to energy for elevators, substations for heating, luminaire lighting, etc. He got to pay 3.313 dinars, and his monthly amount for total electricity is 136 dinars. Zdravko Venovic was given to pay 7.022 dinars, and the monthly amount is 977 dinars. Goran Vodogaz won to pay 11.868 dinars, and his monthly amount is 350 dinars. There's a few questions to be asked here. First, why electricity consumption until that date, so by March 5th, when families began to move into their apartments, was not charged by the investor Zlatiborgrading, but the unpaid bills were printed in duplicate and this name of the tenant. Who gave the order to "Electro-distribution" to charge for the total electricity consumed by March 5th of this year? Why infotan accepted to make these accounts and thereby additionally traumatized already troubled tenants. I appeal, or ask the Commissioner for Refugees to deal with these issues in co-operation with the city administration. It's unacceptable for refugee families to pay for shared electricity...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43783	Thanks again. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43784	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens and citizens, law enforcement and reforms of established plans depend on people, their expertise, their professionalism and, of course, how human resources are being managed and planned in all institutions. Without the determination of Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, without a clear implementation of the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, without management and proper concept and access to human resources at all levels, we would not achieve such results in the economy and in Serbia's economic recovery. I remind you that only five years ago, Serbia was facing bankruptcy, that these austerity and reform measures were necessary, that the public debt was 78% of GDP, that by the end of this year will be below 50%, third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, unemployment is less than 12%, and all of these are parameters that have led to conditions that we can increase pensions. These parameters are an indicator of the implementation of clear plans by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also of good staff policies. My view is that it must be constantly working to improve human resources in all institutions and that regardless of the internal act, this area must be part of legal solutions. That is why I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for amendments and additions to the PIO, as I believe that this article should be complemented by Article 2 concerning further promotion and affirmation of staff resources in the PIO Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43785	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43786	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will affect the improvement of the standard of living of all citizens of Serbia, but especially our pensioners, and that is what is most important today. It is also important for citizens to know that in previous years the grant from the Republic of Serbia's pension budget amounted to about 50%, and until today, the grant from the Republic of Serbia's pension budget is only around 29%, which is twice as much as in the previous period, and this is the result of the good economic policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has led in previous years. Today, such economic conditions have been created that pensioners who have endured the greatest burden of severe fiscal consolidation can have significantly higher pensions. What is most important is that pension increases are planned from real health sources and that the plan is for future pensions to increase from real, or healthy sources, or depending on financial opportunities. It is clear that if Serbia continues to go the way it has been going so far, which is the way we have three years in a row of surpluses, that is the way new factories are opening up, new jobs are opening up, and in that case it is clear that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or our pensioner, can count in the coming years and on new increases. Today, we should thank the pensioners for putting up with the most difficult burden of fiscal consolidation, and for perhaps understanding best why the state of Serbia must be saving. They understood best why we had to cut pensions, because Serbia was in front of bankruptcy in previous years, and those who had just led Serbia to 2012 brought us to bankruptcy, those who left 400,000 people on the street, and thus influenced themselves to question the survival of pensions in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43787	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43788	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, with fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Today we are talking about increasing pensions for our oldest citizens, I am personally happy, I am even happier because such an increase comes as a result of responsible financial policy, as a result of excellent economic parameters, and what is even more important, comes from real sources and does not endanger the budget of the Republic of Serbia or the functioning of our country. In addition, I can say that first of all, not only am I satisfied, but I am saying all of this because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a very responsible financial policy and this responsible policy is not only based on what I'm talking about right now, but also on the fact that even during the government of Alexander Vukic, for example, the problem of Srederjevska Ironare, that today the problem of the Mining-chemical combination in Bora, Ikarbus is being solved and that all those enterprises, which have been creating losses in some previous period, are already bearers of the development of the Republic of Serbia or will be in some future period. Finally, thanks to such growth rates, I expect this increase to continue and what is particularly important is to continue in line with real growth, financial and economic growth of the Serbian state and never to happen again as in 2012 when we took over power, so that the citizens of Serbia and the state are bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43789	Thank you, colleague Laketić. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43790	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is certainly a law regarding, when we pass it, a large number of our fellow citizens. In this case, it is about pensioners, millions and 750 thousand with their families following this debate, and this debate is certainly clear, transparent, with a clear message that Serbian citizens want this Assembly well and that in the next period of time we will do everything, as we have done in the previous four years, that the economic situation is in favour of the citizens of Serbia. But not just by the number of people who follow this debate and by the number of people that this law is primary, but by economic categories, this is one of the most important laws. When we talk about this law, then we actually need to know that the contributions that are the basic choice of pensions, the key economic incomes at the level of the general state, and that the pensions allocated from the contribution, at the same time, are the key economic expenditure at the level of the general state and cover at the moment 27% of the general expenditure to the level of Serbia's state. Only these two key facts make it clear how important this law is. When we were able to listen to the Retirement System Act in the last few days, we're basically talking about Bizmark's model dating back to 1922. But this Bismarck model has suffered a very important change because at this point we don't have a pension fund which is the basis of the Bismarck model. Practically, pensions paid in 1956 for pensions paid in 1956 were paid in the form of pensions in 1956. Contributions paid in 1976, for example, were paid in the form of pensions in 1976. What used to be called the Investment Fund has ceased to exist in this pension insurance system in Serbia in the 1980s, and has no longer been paid, and the 1990s investment fund story is over. That is why it is crucial that we take care of the growth of the level of contribution, because it essentially pays out pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43791	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk ambassador, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43792	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the pension system is one of the most complex systems in society and indirectly or directly of importance to almost all citizens of the state. The reasons for the adoption of this law arises from the need for further arrangement of the PIO system. The main objective of the PIO reform is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. The government of the Republic of Serbia has reached its goal within four years and has halted and reduced pension funding deficits. Serbia was in front of bankruptcy four years ago. Public debt was 78% of GDP, and the adoption of the Law on the temporary arrangement of pension payments was a difficult political and economic decision, but thus allowed to pay and pensions to continue to be paid. We should thank the pensioners for putting up with the burden of these heavy measures. Today Serbia is a country with a stable economy. The third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, public debt by the end of the year will be below 50%, the dinar is stable, unemployment is less than 12%, and all thanks to the responsible policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43793	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43794	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, thanks to the wise and responsible policy of Aleksandr Vukic, peace policy, stability, dignity, investor-making, job creation, infrastructure building, investment in health, education, culture and sport, we have reached a growth in GDP of 4.8%. The size of this is the second growth in Europe. Only Poland is ahead of us and this is the highest GDP growth rate in the last ten years. As a result, the establishment of sound monetary discipline, i.e. the conduct of responsible and domestic monetary policy where each spent dinar has its own cover, created conditions for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on PIO. In this way it will cease to apply the Law on the temporary arrangement of how pensions are paid, so the October pension will already be in place, i.e. The payment in November of the month will be paid without a downsizing, which is a sign that Serbia's economy has stepped on its healthy feet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43795	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43796	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so there are no of these experts across the street, we've been denied their precious presence, likely to have better things to do, to tweet and publish status on social networks. Ladies and gentlemen, certainly the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance is the most important point of this National Assembly session, certainly the greatest public and citizens' attention it attracts the very theme of abolishing the Retirement Law is certainly the best link between citizens of Serbia. So, as promised last time, when the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund is stabilised, when the state of public finances in Serbia is stabilised, there will be an end to the Pension Reduction Act, and that is exactly what is happening. The PIO Fund is stable, the state of public finances in Serbia is stable and, as promised, we are removing pension cuts, but we are fulfilling all other promises relating to the state of public finances, but also to the inflow of foreign direct investment and when it comes to the expected rate of economic growth and when it comes to reducing public debt, as many colleagues have spoken today, when it comes to reducing the unemployment rate which, I will repeat, is below 12% and all the other good news we have been able to hear here in the National Assembly these days. It's something that only those who don't want to see it, who have an extremely evil intention, who are willing to criticise at all costs, but at the same time offer us no solution. I have to take the opportunity to look back on the latest tweet, therefore, a tweet that came after that scandalous tweet by Mr. Veseinovic, condemned by all the decent and normal people in Serbia, and it is a senior official of DS Goran Jesic, with the latest tweet in the hate speech. “ Violence or not, ” he says, “but one day we will chase the streets to slap you and hit you with our feet... “ not to say where now. So, after this second tweet, it is clear that it is not a coincidence, but that it is a political programme of what they call the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43797	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43798	I'm reporting from Article 32. Mr. Arsic, I am pleased to see that you have continued to interpret the Rules of Procedure a little more flexible than Mr. Djordje Milicevic did all day. Indeed, you should act this way, if the SNS parliamentary group has no more time, it is good to allow MPs who speak of the amendment to speak for more than two minutes and almost three minutes. I only ask that when the other MPs, I am specifically talking about the MPs of the SRS, they spend time on the parliamentary group, that you have the same archaic. I believe that Mr. Djordjevic, as minister, is pleased that the chairman allows MPs to say what they think they should say and that we do not have to say it in just two minutes. So it's not an observation, support, and just a request to continue the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43799	My colleague Radeta, there's no need for me to promise you. I have played and tolerated a few more tens of seconds for the MP to finish his presentation, so it will continue. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Palalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This member of the law refers to independent activities, self-employed insurance companies, and it is precisely an opportunity to point out how positive the effects of all the previous rather difficult and complex fiscal measures have yielded fruit. Namely, what's this about? There is hardly a rise in new companies or enterprises in an atmosphere that is extremely unfavourable for investment and business. Exactly the fact of the positive measures that have been taken, I say, which have been difficult, which have been in the context of other savings in the public sector, is also the data provided by the Agency for Economic Registers. In 2017, more than 43,000 new companies opened in the Republic of Serbia. The agency itself suggests that compared with previous years it was the largest growth in new business and companies. This speaks of the fact that the previous four years, when it comes to fiscal policy, when it comes to the creation of an economic environment, have been done very much, because it would hardly be possible for entrepreneurs to decide on such a kind of risk without having confidence and a good estimate that they will make a profit. The very fact that this number of companies and businesses has opened up suggests that through tax payments, the ultimate objective of these fiscal measures will be realised through the payment of contributions, which is the stability in the payment of pensions and stability in the next period for all pensioners. The impact of previous measures that have been difficult and implemented throughout Europe, not only in Serbia, is precisely in the fact that we have an increase in new businesses, an increase in independent business activities and a new momentum in the development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43801	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43802	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, we certainly need to move away from the difficult fiscal consolidation measures that gave positive results, brought public finances to a certain degree of stability, and now there are real conditions to work further on improving the pension and disability insurance system. What I would particularly like to point out is that this bill shows the measures of the Serbian Government which are not restrictive, so all the measures that pervade this law are positive and relate on the one hand to improving the position of pensioners, both on the other hand and to improving some different administrative procedures and procedures. I would also like to remind myself of 2010 when the deficit in the budget was 4.6% and in 2012 when it was even 6.8%, while the unemployment rate in 2010 was 19.2% and 23% respectively. So, while those who had previously been in power paid out of loans, they were in debt, mostly during their different election campaigns and while working to sell social capital to increase pensions to stay in power, today the government of the Republic of Serbia is showing a high degree of responsibility and can enable pensioners to improve standards. This is, of course, the result of the implementation of various measures of the Serbian government relating to the development of the economy, of reducing the unemployment rate, of curbing the grey economy. Speaking of new jobs, I would like to say that President Aleksandar Vukic will open two new factories in Nis on 28 and 29 September, and that factory "Cuntobel" in Nis and IMI factory in Nisko Banja. So this is a policy that I support, a policy of prosperity, a policy of economic development, a policy that allows for the possibility of increasing wages and pensions, stability and social security policies. In line with that, I will vote in the day of voting and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43803	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43804	I think today is the fourth day since we've been dealing with the Amendment Bill's amendment and amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, but since we started this debate in particular, or amendments, it's really somehow turned into some sad story and, dear colleagues, you who imitate both this law and this government, believe me, it's degutantly listen, especially today morning, thank the Government, the President and then what, "thank you to the pensioners", God forgive me, as if you're at their grave. So "thank you to the pensioners" is something you accepted as a floscule, which has nothing to do with reality. That you thank the pensioners, you say, that they have borne the greatest burden and that they have accepted to bear the greatest burden and, as you call it, fiscal consolidation, my people, is it possible that you believe it, is that you read what is written to you, but look at what it says here. I'm asking you, who asked the pensioners to cut their pension four years ago? How do you know it's the pensioners who volunteered to do what you did to them? That story of yours, you won as many or as many votes, so you won exactly as many votes, I'm talking about your advance coalition, you won in 2016, a minority of the number of votes in Serbia, that's a million and 700,000 votes. If all those pensioners voted, then it wasn't you. But how do you know which vote you're voting, how do you know how many pensioners with their voice supported their retirement? Well, there aren't any, believe me. There isn't. You're trying this smoke screen to create a completely different picture in public, so five million people didn't vote for you, well, in those five million are the ones who were retired. Why don't you think so? So, you're talking about this bill of law, you're praising something that you think you should compliment, but give a little taste in the parliamentary debate. It's just not nice to listen. Besides, the pensioners, the ones you're talking to, they don't hear or see, they either have no TV because they don't have the money to buy it, or they don't have the electricity because they're cut off because of their small pensions, or they don't have the money to pay for the subscription or don't give God just cable TV. So let's talk about the data. You've been talking for three, four days about how the average pension of 25,000 dinars and how that doesn't know how much has grown, etc. But, Serbian citizens, this people should know that 21% of pensioners receive pensions between 10 and 15,000 dinars. Well, let's ask ourselves each other, so we ask the minister what else can be done, that these pensions increase? Can you imagine an old man, retired to live with a pension between 10 and 15,000 dinars? Can he buy the cure? Can he buy bread? Is he able to pay for the communals, or perhaps whoever Corri Udovici, whom you have taken over from the yellows at the time, when she said, "Who can't pay for the electricity, let him sell the apartment?" Get some humanity into what we're talking about. Don't just brag, praise, praise, be realistic, you don't have to do this, but say, "Yes, this is the truth and let's see what can be done to make it better." Do you know that 131,000 pensioners in Serbia receive a pension of less than 10,000 dinars, I don't even know what to call a pension. What is that 10,000 dinars that pensioners receive? So, please, I really do ask you to take this debate in this direction and to suggest to the Minister what can and what should be done to increase the status of pensioners, and to take the SRS proposal seriously to reduce the ratio of the lowest and highest pensions. So let's increase this lowest pension so we never talk about a pension of 10, 12 or 15,000 dinars again. The lowest pension for every man must be such that he can survive for a month, as worthy of that pension, and the one who has the largest pension, let him have three times as much as that, and then he can live more relaxedly. It is a normal healthy state-of-the-art policy and social policy and a serious attitude towards its citizens. Of course, I won't miss this opportunity, not to remind the public again, and this bill of law you're ending the possibility of ever increasing your pensions again, you might increase them by 100%, I don't know what the government is going to say, but in law you don't leave that possibility, so that means you can't increase pensions and never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43805	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43806	Okay. I am here, ready to accept that we are not voted by pensioners, no one votes for us, and for those who have concluded that we are wrong, because we claim that pensioners and other citizens of Serbia vote for us, they have support. So in all the elections since 2014, 2016, last year and this year, we had the result, of what was the last one, for those voted by pensioners who have a great support of 2%. Here, we had 2%, they had our miserable 46% in the last elections in the city of Belgrade. If you want we can go from one local government to the next, ours is below the censorship score, and they're getting 55, 56 percent. If it happened to be different, then the credit for what, after the adoption of this law will be pensions for all categories of pensioners, but for everything is bigger than ever, they go to them again, not us, who are telling the truth and we don't know what we're doing. To take this story seriously, what can be done for the pensioners, this government has already shown. What can be done for the pensioners has been shown by all who follow the policies of Alexander Vukic and the SNS and our partners. The fact that there will be more pensions than ever for all categories, as much as anyone doesn't like it because there's no personal result in it. It can't be affected and it can't change. So that's where you see what can and what will happen? It'll be absolutely the opposite of what we heard earlier. They say, the possibility of pensions being increased is out, and those who seem to have reached the hall for the first time today, they're at the same time telling themselves whether you're all the freedom of this world and now you're going to increase how you think of it when you need it for some elections. Make a deal with each other because we've thrown out all the possibilities to increase or we've given them to ourselves like they've never been. Serbian citizens see and understand that pensions will grow as they grow now every time we get additional new funding in our budget and that they can be increases like the last 5% and inflation is two or three percent. That's what the citizens of Serbia see and that's what's full of truth, and you win that there's no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43807	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger, the Witch of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43808	You see how pointless this is, how malicious it is, not towards the SRS, but towards the citizens of Serbia and the pensioners, what a turning point. I'll start at the end, he says, just before the gentleman can make a deal with those who went into the O.R. room about our position when it comes to raising pensions. Well, you made a deal with them in 2008 when Boris Tadic and Miki Rakic made you, so let go of your deals, it's over long ago. As to whether or not the pensioners vote for you. No one talked about your election score, it's what it is, as long as it's gonna be, we'll see, but by telling you that you know who voted for you, you're confirming what we were saying that you forced people to take pictures with a mobile phone ballot and show you who voted for you. It's the only way I can interpret what you just said. Just to remind you, Mr. Orlic, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until the next election, as we will see after, you are talking to the strongest opposition party sitting here on behalf of 8.7% of the votes won in the previous elections. At least respect the citizens, don't just make a declaration about it. Yeah, it's true. Whether someone tells you what they created of you, from your creators, is that they tell you that you will increase your pensions when you think of it, so it has nothing to do with our attitude. So, you in the law... You are not a lawyer, here, ask Martinovic's lawyer, to read to me at the end of the day someone who writes in the law – pensions in Serbia, by the power of this law, will be coordinated then and then and on the basis of that and that? It's very simple. Where does it say that? It doesn't say anything. This means that you leave the government of the Republic of Serbia to determine whether and when it will increase pensions, which means, I said, they can say -- here, we will increase 100%, and they can say -- now and never again. That's the point, and it has nothing to do with justice, or legal certainty... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43809	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43810	Okay. And then I'll start with this last one. So the point is now, as I learned a few seconds ago, we can also increase how we want to, is that right, and two minutes ago and 20 seconds ago it was -- we've abolished every possibility for every increase. Is that the point? If that's the point, here's what I accept is that it's the essence now and that you agree with the ones I just pointed out. There, they claim the same thing. As for Boris Tadic and the rest of the camp, I don't know, here, how much I remember in the period when Dragan Djilas "yellow drive", who burned and burned around the city of Belgrade, showed interest in certain services of certain MPs, or certain political parties, and was willing to reward them for these services, members of the party through positions on supervisory and management boards, I think it's an excellent example, one of the excellent evidence that he was working with or working with, I won't go into it. It is therefore the right of everyone to choose his own company and so much on the subject of who is there to whom I have helped and done. The Serbian Progressive Party was at the time the strongest possible opposition to the man, the "yellow tycoon" and all the people who belonged to the political establishment, and we were successful in the business. If today it turns out that we are completely unsuccessful, and support is given to those who have 2% in Belgrade in the last elections, here, let them be, to make them today, to make their day successful, to have them and not just in Belgrade, here in Zajecar. in Zajecar, as far as I can see, in April 2017 we won about 18 seats. I can't find them on the list anywhere, but here's the point, so the truth is, they won 18 terms, and we're nowhere on the list, and we don't exist in Zajecar today. Well done, if that's the case. In Vrbas the same year we won 17 seats, and they won 2. So, is it true that we won two, and you're convincingly the best at 17? If that's the case, good for you! Congratulations! We can from one to the other local self-government in 2017 and 2018. If that's your main message for today, I congratulate you on all this deeply and heartily. If it's the greatest danger, the political danger to us, we're really scared. I don't know, this is the hardest day of my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43811	The true narrator of the replica, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43812	It's very interesting to replicate with Mr. Orlic. We find out a lot from him. We just found out they're forcing voters to photograph ballots. We have now learned that these boards of directors share in the name of certain services, not in the name of having someone do something or can't work. But whatever Mr. Orlic is saying, the historical fact that the SNS was created by Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic and the US Embassy, by stealing the mandate of the SRS, it simply cannot be deleted, however much they get in Zajecar, in Bor, wherever you want. Just win, but today a colleague from the government said that these predecessors who preceded you, as they miscalculated, deliberately miscalculated certain data that they presented to the public. About the same time, it served as a basis for raising pensions or reducing pensions, as well as when. Exactly what you said was done by those before you, we're afraid you'll do the same. We don't believe we're going to have the right budget data, especially on budget implementation, especially until we finally get... . After 18 years, it would be the second time in our lives to get a bill on budget implementation. Only when we discuss budget implementation will we be sure that some condition is what it is or isn't. Like this, you can say whatever you want. The budget's being adopted. How do you spend it? Whatever you want. No one can control you, because you don't put such a proposal on the agenda to people, and that's one reason why we can't believe that you're going to increase pensions, unless it's in your best interests sometimes, and as a lawyer, I'm saying, you're passing a law that allows you never to increase your pension again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43813	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43814	Well, in this, as I have already said, the hardest day of my life, given that I am facing the greatest political danger for our party ever, I still have to say that there are some things that are good and firm evidence that this government knows what it is doing and that, of course, the political parliamentary majority supports that there are no dangers that and similar to those that, unfortunately, this country was exposed in that period from 2008 to 2012, which we talked about a lot. What's proof? Well, proof is practice, evidence is facts, evidence is, say, relevant data. The evidence is that, for example, today's public debt is being reduced, so when we increase, and we are really increasing by this law, we are not jeopardizing anything about the stability of the economic system in this country. On the contrary, this stability is contributed because there are good impulses from different sides and through investments and through additional economic activities in our country that make this good effect. We're at below 60% of our debt today. We continue to reduce it today. We're having an extraordinary growth today, and that's been talked about a lot. We today have more than twice the unemployment rate, 170,000 new jobs created. There's a lot of talk about it, and it can only be ignored by someone who's simply decided to ignore these things. Of course you can't force Serbian citizens to vote against their wishes. You really can't. Anything that's said otherwise, I see only as a very bad excuse for my own failures. One who has 2% in the election can find some personal comfort in that, but that's cheating on himself. No one can blackmail pensioners by losing their jobs. You know, pensioners, by definition, people aren't at work anymore, but as far as whoever created them, every policy has or doesn't have the support that comes from the people, from the citizens of Serbia. As far as you're concerned, you're welcome to claim that we were created by Martians, if that makes it easier for you. Eighty percent of what you were counting on to belong to you, that you were given from God, turned out to have nothing to do with us, but it was a support for those people whom the citizens really believed, that these people weren't you. That's what you're gonna have to learn to live with.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43815	Thank you. I'm now setting a break, in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, three minutes. [[After a break.]] We'll continue with further work. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, fellow Chevarlitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin by congratulating all the citizens of Serbia with Orthodox faith today's Day of Baptism, and we are concerned that even though we are looking forward to a beautiful day today, according to popular belief next year, it will be dry. It is possible that it will be even more dry if some of the suggestions we have heard during this session about future ways of calculating pensions are realized. We would not be honored if no one ever praised the ruling party, I am taking the opportunity to commend Prime Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Vladan Vukosavljevic for his position on reality programmes. I think it's the attitude that expresses the majority view of the people, that television with a national frequency can't afford to have such a program. It is not an accurate finding that one who is not viewed can be turned off or transferred over the remote control of that channel, because many children remain without their parents in working apartments, and have no ability to see what parents or others are looking at during their absence. Also, I would like to commend the two MPs of the ruling party who are in my absence, based on what I read in the means of information on the Internet, expressed disagreement with the way it was organised so-called. "The Parade of Pride" or a parade of lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgender persons, as it is said briefly. Now I'm asking a public question, who's so-called. "Dita von Blu" who demeaned all Serbian citizens in the Serbian folk costume and played around the pole on a moving truck? Can you get information on who this person is? Is it even from Serbia or was it brought in on purpose? I haven't heard from any of the Prime Ministers, through Minister Djordjevic, Minister Ruzic, the mayor who was in that parade that they have been fenced from such proceedings. At the same time, I would like to express my gratitude to the president of the Committee on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, Mr Linta, and to the MP who is a member of that committee, Aleksandr Markovic, who took part as representatives of the National Assembly on September 15th in marking the Day of Breaking the Thessaloniki Front at the cemetery in Bitola, although unfortunately that cemetery bears the name of a military and not the Serb military cemetery as it should be worn. It is good that Serbia's ambassador to the Republic of Macedonia was there, but I am very sad, and I believe all the descendants of these giant heroes, as it is written on these monuments, were there no representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I wonder for which country and for which generations were those of our ancestors killed? I would also like to thank the members of the Fiscal Council who had the strength and courage and the knowledge to issue a statement of disagreement with the bill under consideration today. I would like to thank the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, for sending a letter of support to the participants of the international rally "a hundred years since the breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front" in Bitola. When it comes to this agenda point, I don't understand the following and please answer. Who accepted this law? Was the proposal to amend and supplement the law at a public debate or was there only a proposal from the government, without consulting pension organisations, employers' organisations, etc., because tomorrow these others will also be pensioners? Furthermore, I fully support a national MP who had previously discussed it, that it is unacceptable to talk about the collapse of the budget if we haven't had the final account of the Republic of Serbia in so many years or as it is said -- the law on the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget under consideration. We do not know what figures are being operated on and how these funds were spent and what was and how the funds that were spent above the planned revenue under the Budget Law for individual years, because we did not have any budget rebalances or anything, and it is said that, especially in these last two years, greater budget revenue has been achieved. We have no insight into which companies do not pay contributions to PIO, in which they are amounts and what has been done on this matter. I would suggest that when speaking of a drastic reduction in the unemployment rate, you take into account the number of people who have emigrated from Serbia in the last ten years or at least during your six-year period and add that number of unemployed, and then you calculate the rate, because if they hadn't moved out of Serbia, they would probably be employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43818	You're bringing the end, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43819	No, I'm using MPs' time by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43820	You spent both of them. Your colleague Vesovic tells you you've spent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43821	All proposals relating to a new approach to the law on the need to put one-to-three-to-one attitude into the property relations of a large number of pensioners and I do not think they are well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43822	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43823	A few notes that seem necessary. First of all, as regards the events you mentioned, in the words that there was no one there who represented anyone on behalf of the Serbian government, that is not true. He was a representative of the defence minister, as was the representative of the Chief of Staff. That's the first thing. But when false things start, it can't end differently. It's about people leaving Serbia. You didn't mention the numbers, and I'll tell you why. Because you don't know them on the one hand, because you don't hesitate on the other side, and I speak in plural. Those who like to mention them do not hesitate to come from the same lines, so, of course, from the ranks of this tycoon-lyotic mile, to throw themselves at these figures, to literally invent them. I'm listening to Dragan Gilas talking about some OECD data last year, he just doesn't say if it's the latest OECD publication, which came out two months ago with data for the previous year, and the OECD doesn't know about it either. Now, when it's made up like that, there are amazing conclusions, like those that nobody's employed in Serbia, but the differences are based on the number of people who came out of the country. It's all just not a serious and responsible offer to the citizens of this country. I don't expect any different. People whose leader is one Veseinović Zeljko, and you know why I mention it, it is impossible not to know, because so much has been said about the fantastic qualities of this man and the great and brave words, the attitude towards the citizens of this country, the institutions you care about towards the future of everyone. If these are examples, if they are ideals and if you think that our old ones gave their lives for it, it may be better to spare both this congregation and this country from such conclusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43824	On what basis, colleague Jovanovic, do you want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43825	Mr. Arsic, I'm reporting under Article 27. Rules of Procedure. You were under obligation 15 minutes ago and now when Vladimir Orlic spoke to inform us on what basis he was speaking. Here sits the living and healthy president of the parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, the SNS's authorised MP, Aleksandra Tomic, and the need for a bunch of words of which, absolutely, to ask their MPs, to ask the citizens of Serbia, to repeat some of what Vladimir Orlic said, difficult. Because it's a bunch of words, data, some personal vanity, sympathy, antipathy. And you allow all this and the valuable time that pensioners expect in this debate, to explain to them how you came to this model, Mr. Minister, to calculate future pensions, in fact, it's not a model, it's some ad hoc solution, which it is today, it's not, and tomorrow you're watching everything or you're not supposed to tell your colleague Orlic that he doesn't have the right to do it. If she spends her time on the amendment of her colleague Ševarlic to what he's exhibited, I can accept that, but just now, when Mrs Radeta spoke to Mrs Radet, who has made clear the reasons for everything that she represents the SRS and now, when she appears to be being challenged as someone who does not presently presently in the Rules of Procedure absolutely no one, you have no answer to that question or you have, and you have not informed us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43826	My colleague Jovanovic, I don't care whether the right to a replica is used by colleagues Orlic, a colleague of Martinovic or a colleague of Tomic. I just can't on one basis use all three of them. Maybe I'm misreading the Rules of Procedure. I may be misreading the Rules of Procedure, but I don't want anyone, nor your MPs, nor any other parliamentary group, to deny the right to speak. If that's a big mistake, if it is, just tell me do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43827	Yes, I do, because this is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, because Martinovic is not air. Here, sit here across from me, smile and probably disagree with maybe some Orlic attitudes, so we're not looking at it right now. It's impossible that they're not Lolek and Bolek, you know, because one is one, the other is the other. This deputy is the deputy head of the parliamentary group, so according to this, he cannot speak, although he wants to and something makes him bring up a bunch of data here that doesn't mean anything and no one can reproduce in his head, Martinovic can do it when he's in the O.R. Only to force Martinovic to come out, which I believe counterpart Martinovic will not at the moment, so Orlic cannot get the word and you have violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43828	What can I say, colleague Jovanovic? The assembly will vote on that in the day of the vote. And this way of thinking I learned when I was still in the SRS, so I don't know what's changed here. Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43829	Thank you. First of all, I don't know what labeling is, unless you have an argument for anything I've said. I did not talk about the number of employees, the unemployment rate, and it is certain that the unemployment rate is affected by those who emigrated from Serbia. So anyone who knows the basics of statistics should know that. Also, about success, allegedly, we can talk about the following data. If 800m euros are what was taken from the pensioners, that's eight PKKs kidnapped from the pensioners. Eight times by 17,000, it's 13,000 hectares of state-owned land should practically give the PIO Fund to manage and replace the future of these revenues that would not come into the situation if we had this situation at the PIO Fund. Because the PKK is sold for 105 million, that is, when all other assets are denied, if left only on land, 76.5 million. For 17,000 hectares of 300 euros, it is at an annual level of five million and 100,000 euros for rent only. This means that within 15 years, the lease of state land each user would pay the price at which the PKK was sold and would remain property owned by the Serbian state. And the particular question is whether the PKK could be sold at all, because it is a state-owned company, and state-owned land cannot be sold, can only be issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43830	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43831	As far as the PKK is concerned, it's a pretty simple thing. That's what anyone in the O.R. could hear. Whoever only five, ten minutes ago, as long as it's been, just got to the O.R. because he had some other, more important jobs, he knows it. But here, I'll do it again. You're all right, I just don't understand how then Dragan Gilas isn't drawn there to be the first, even though these are values below all costs, that he'll be the one to take over the PKK? How could he miss it? Didn't he do it those months back, talk about how it's beneath everything, how it's going to be for what? It's impossible that he didn't have information and he didn't use the fact that it was below all costs, so he could be first and take over and show how well he could manage with his new methods from the time of his self-management. There's something wrong with that. So it's going to be worth something more than a wake-up call as soon as Dragan Gilas has decided not to get into it. We know he's only interested in what's free. As far as labeling is concerned, whether or not it's a label when, let's say, this Dragan Gilas says that the latest data from the OECD publication left Serbia last year, and the latest OECD publication, look at it yourself, I'm not going to bring it to you, came out a few months ago and talked about the 2016 data, which is not that big at all, but, of course, smaller. What's making it up? Is it a label if I say it's fiction? If it's a label, I'm sorry, please, but I'm going to have to repeat it every time I hear it, because this is really important and it's really true. As for Željko Veselinović, I now expected, if not before, here, at this point, to be determined, when you speak of values, according to this. Thanks for not giving me an answer after all. You've shown that you agree very well with that and that type of qualifications, with that and that kind of values. At the very end, a request for you, Mr. Chairman. Tell those who fear that I will expect to reproduce something in my head, that I really don't have that kind of expectation. They're quiet on that side, as far as I'm concerned. But I thank you for everyone's desire to show some attention to my smallness. Still, I don't think that's necessary. These other things are much more important, such as bigger pensions for everyone, they're important, we need to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43832	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43833	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ševarlic, just to clarify your concept of "the rate of unemployment" etc. No one, if I may put it that way, does not hate any data. The methodology used by both NSZ and RZS is accurate. We can't record someone who went abroad and took them off that list, even if we wanted to. When a job is created, when we have an offer of a job for someone on the unemployment list, it is called and then it is recorded whether he has found a job, whether he has left Serbia or does not want that job and you have it all in statistics. Such statistics are also published when they say the record unemployment in Serbia is 11.9, but it is not satisfactory. We need to go towards being one digit, to be one, two, three percent, and that's our goal, and that's probably going to be, in the next year, one digit, and in the next years and that low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43834	Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, colleague Chevarlich. Miladin Ševarlic: How come I don't have one? You have no right. You don't. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mihaylovich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43835	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have submitted to Article 2 an amendment relating to Article 15. The PIO Act. In fact, this article provides the possibility of self-payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for citizens who have lost their jobs or have no other basis for insurance. The amendments to the PIO Act that we are now discussing are proposed to stop this category of insurance status unless the contribution has been paid within six months. So, it's about non-worker insurance, which pays an independent contribution to pension and disability insurance, which are victims, perhaps, of the previous unfair privatisations that have been made, which do not often have the right to live, and yet they want to obtain the right to retire through minimum payments and payments when the time comes. I think it would be solid because of everything that's been said that these insurance companies can pay within nine months of their obligation, and after nine months of stopping their insurance status. It is also important to say that for every commendation and that the NSZ provides employment programmes for these categories, but that it is a kind of help to such persons, because they are not in a permanent working relationship and these programmes, I think that we should also commend NSZ, are actually a great social and economic support to these persons. So in law and the fact that a nine-month payment deadline would be a significant help and, to put it this way, a good state gesture to take care of such persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43836	Thank you. On Article 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Mirjana Dragaš: I'm in touch. And you're picking up? Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43837	Thank you very much. If I may, I would like to report on this amendment submitted by MP Vesna Ivkovic, given that this is a subject that we have discussed a lot in the Parliament group itself and that has brought some attention to us. In fact, a colleague before me spoke of a proposal to extend the payment period to nine months if there was a default payment. Vesna and some of us were even thinking that this period could possibly extend for a year. In any case, we think that it is commendable that anyone who can provide in a certain way, and does not have regular insurance from the status of an employee, to pay himself a pension, that it is certainly good and responsible thinking compared to age. What I'd like to ask Mr. Minister about this problem, although the minister is talking right now, so I don't think he'll hear me. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I'm interested - if a certain number of years a person pays private money for his own insurance, for example that it's 10 years, regularly and in a certain period, there's no possibility of ensuring that regularity, but it has to come to an end, either after six months, nine or a year, which I personally think is a possible measure that we can predict, is it, after some time, that person, if he comes back to the opportunity to continue to pay his own insurance, can this continue in such a way that he can be recognized all the years that he's been paying himself for his job and for retirement insurance and that this status is restored or his resources, don't give him God, he's failing and that status is completely losing? It's not the law, at least I didn't see it in an explanation, as it were. In any case, I believe that, given that it is not a responsible relationship between an employer or someone else, but a person who is only trying to provide himself with age and all the principles of private insurance, which exists in us, which is developing in other developed countries, that this should be ensured and that these funds should be provided for a further period of time and again, so to speak, are conditionally usable. Speaking of which, allow me, the chairman, a few minutes from the parliamentary group, I want to speak my mind on this law. I very much support abolishing, of course, the old law, like all pensioners and returning pensions to the system. I underline here the importance of the system of sustainability, justice, stability and predictability of this pension PIO fund, which is not a social category. In the discussions, at certain times, it appeared whether it was social, whether it was insurance, etc. When we pass laws, I personally think that this must be quite clearly defined as a stable fund, not a social measure. In this way, we will also ensure the confidence of young generations that it is worthwhile and absolutely justified to pay funds into stable PIO funds, because they certainly provide social security in years when a man stops working and retires. Otherwise, if he is unpredictable and unstable, trust in the stability of that fund and his justification will be lost, which is a little bit seen, because young people tend to ask the employer not to pay him gross wages for other things. Of course, it's past the law, it's subject to punishment and everything else, but there are such phenomena, and we have to stop and bring things into the system more and more. I fully support, of course, one responsible government relationship, which says – pension must be in line with the budget a sustainable category that will not endanger the budget. This previous law, in that sense, has been passed by us. It must now, in the future, not be variable, depend on GDP, but must be provided with all possible means and forces to make it work so that it is truly sustainable and justified in the future from the point of view of all those who, in the future, are paying pension funds. I also support a special measure of government that, when it comes to this law here, says we should help those pensioners who have the lowest pensions. Again, the question arises – is this coming from the funds of the PIO Fund, which means secure and stable insurance based on the earned, or is it a social measure? I'm saying it's a social measure that will certainly ensure a stable age and those people with the lowest pensions, but it has to be, some example, that he worked 15 years with the lowest paid jobs and certainly will have the lowest pension, but making up for it shouldn't go from the PIO fund itself, that's my personal opinion. I just want to tell the people here, you know that, the People's proverb -- it's not a little wrong, so when it's equally arranged by the rules, it's wrong to wrong, so let's not do injustice, or arbitrary evaluations in the movement of pensions into future application. We stick to the system, we believe in the development of the economy, because it's the basics, it's for every social security, and it's also the stability of pensions. Let's do everything that factories open up, what this government is doing, and we fully support it, and not close it, what the previous authorities did and what was tragically done, and it's seen what it's done, to make more and more deposits in the budget, how future pension accounts would be exactly based on the prescribed rules, and not subject to any uncertainty or uncertainty. Only so will the young, I say, and employers want to invest funds in the PIO fund, and when he's unstable, he won't be a security guard for future life. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43838	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43839	I thank you for asking. Article 2, just to despise it, it foresees a lack of quality if the contribution is not paid within six months, and no later starts on the day when it is last paid, for the day until it is paid. Anyone can start paying again and admit everything that was before. That's not controversial. This measure and this amendment of the member has just been brought in because of the excessive records held by the PIO Fund on these lagging payments, debts, etc. And the administration was unnecessarily burdened with keeping records of who didn't pay, and there were a lot of defaults. This makes it so much easier for us to take care of it when someone doesn't pay. It's easy to admit until then, and then after that, if he keeps paying, he starts from the day he pays and goes on. It's about that. As for the increase itself, we've made sure that we don't tear down the pension fund system. You know what the right is and what is the range from the lowest to the highest pension. How and how can this be solved? It's not a social category. There is a social fund that serves when the minister is entitled to a category at risk on some basis to bring a solution and propose to the government that someone be given some help. In this case, we make sure that we don't violate that right without making it possible for some with the lowest pensions to increase pensions and enable them, but still making sure that there is a limit and that it doesn't happen as before in the past that some governments allow themselves to increase four times a year because of a political campaign, but that it is within the framework of how successful you are as Government. If you're successful as a government and you make GDP, it says here, you can have 0.3% of that GDP, up to that amount to give for pensions, to have a temporary increase in a given category. You are thus limiting the possibility that someone will themselves without any control increases in any amount. How do you solve an increase in pensions? (President: Bring the end of Mr. Minister. If I may for half a minute? Fight against the gray economy, fight against working on black, increase unemployment, create new jobs. This is how and how the pension fund is rehabilitated and makes it healthier. It shows the results, now, I believe, and it gives us the right to believe that the pension fund in the coming years will stand on stable legs and everything that's happened to the two-thousands will be a matter of forgetfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43840	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I am setting a break of one hour and we continue at 4:00 p.m. by asking questions to the members of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43841	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, we approach asking parliamentary questions in time from 16 hours and five minutes to 19 hours and five minutes, according to Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to welcome the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic and all the ministers who came here today to answer your questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group and then by MPs according to at least the largest parliamentary group. We move on to asking parliamentary questions and the first one is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43842	Thank you. I thank the President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs for this opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity and ask a few questions that I consider to be of great importance to the citizens at this time, especially to members of minority and national minorities, especially us Bosniaks in Sandzak and all others, because we are in the election process for national councils of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, which are scheduled for 4 November 2018. The previous election cycles in 2010 and 2014 had major shortcomings, making the public more familiar. One was absolutely damaged by the Bosniak National Council or the greater abuse of then-Minister Ciplic and caused great damage to the electoral process and trust of the Bosniak National Community of the Serbian State. In 2014, election thefts were observed where certain institutions were also scheduled and where it was possible for Mr Sulejman Ugljanin to rule from 4 years to 2018, respectively, illegally, from 2014 to 2018. We are, as I said in 2018, the big problem is the voter lists, the special voter list. The big problem is that we continue to have more people in local, urban and municipal self-government who manage the entry, bringing the person out of the Special Election List, so I ask Minister Ruzic, how is it possible that, for example, in Novi Pazar, four people have cards to enter and delete from the voter list, two of which belong to the ideological list Self-determination, Mr Sulejman Ugljanin, two of whom belong to the list "Vakat je je" supported by SDP, Mr Rasim Ljajic? Since we have a major problem on the ground, erasing, we have already filed some complaints, I would like to hear Mr. Stefanovic, as well as Minister Kuburovic, on the same question. The second question I would like to ask concerns the case of respected professor Ćamil Jukovic, innocently injured in 2004, in the calculation of the political parties of SDA, Mr Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic SDP, who was 14 years in a wheelchair and who, from day to day in front of the local government of Novi Pazar, protested asking that everything he had to pay be paid for in order to spend 14 years on permanent accommodation in Novopazarska Bani, because otherwise he could not survive. It's just that none of the city's administration...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43843	Thank you. Let them answer, and you'll have time to supplement. Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43844	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Fehratovic, of course the elections are very important on 4 November, that when we compare the legislative framework and the atmosphere that was in 2010 and 2014, compared to this year 2018, I think we have made a major step forward. Also, three very important laws have been passed in this home. A set of minority laws. The Special Election List is updated in accordance with the Single Election List and any potential or potential abuse will be sanctioned because it is also a criminal offence. As far as the specific case you are referring to is concerned, I would just like to inform you that the administrative inspection is present today in the territory of the Raška area, in Tutin, Sjenica and Pazar, that it will form a report and that we are very closely following, in addition to these regular activities, therefore, the initiation of duty in order to enroll as many citizens as possible, i.e. using their right to enlist in a special voter list. Also, if the special polling list were updated in such a way as not to produce any dissatisfaction by any participant in the election process. I would remind you that on November 4th, elections for 22 national councils are held and that where there may be some complexity in that part, we certainly pay even more attention, especially after complaints that have arrived at our ministry. That's why the administrative inspection is already on the ground for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43845	Thank you. Here you go, additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43846	I thank you, dear ministers, but let's say at this very moment, four people in Novi Pazar today have access to the registration and erasure of the special voter list. A similar situation in other cities, where employed local self-governments go from house to house in populated towns, in rural towns, ask who wants to vote for the list of Mr. Ugljanin or Mr. Rasim Ljajic, so they enroll people, and delete those who, for example, support the list of Mothers of Bosniaks. It is something that is present and that is already fearing a large number of citizens, that the election process is not sufficiently protected, as well as fear of citizens, when they check whether they are enrolled and where they vote. Most of it stands, but about 30 to 40 percent doesn't have it, and we've had experience of people being transferred to 30, 40 kilometers away from their place of residence to vote. The second question that I failed to finish is for Mr. Professor Ćalima Jukovic, who is 14 years disabled thanks to the political parties, who today live in the rehab centre of Novopazarska Banja, and for what he must pay a large amount of money during this 14-year period of over five million dinars. None of the locals, nor the republican authorities dared or dared to give him any support in this regard, although he sent regular demands, especially since he was the victim of a crazy political coup in a situation where he hurried to save minor children under whom the bullet was being fired from a column of political parties that were in a firefight before the 2004 elections in the centre of Novi Pazar. I ask Minister Loncar to engage and find a way, since it's a health center that's under the Ministry of Health. Since local self-government doesn't want to hear about Mr. Cemil Jukovic, it has those who fired that bullet towards his spine to allow him to stay free of charge at the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43847	Thank you. The word has Minister Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43848	Just on that first part of this sub-question, I would still allow the administrative inspection to do its job, to determine whether your information is correct. What the law prescribes and what is in accordance with the procedure is that certificates can be obtained at most by one person in the municipal administration if there is an increased amount of work, it can be another individual, but in any case it is very complicated not to notice, given that we 24 hours online follow who enters the special polling list, makes changes. It would be complicated to do so with some other computers, without seeing it with us and if such things, and it is possible that there have been them in the previous election cycle, but if such things happen, of course it is a crime and that administrative inspection will find it, and later it can be processed by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43849	Minister Jadranka Joksimovic wants to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43850	Thank you. I just think it is important to supplement, given that the MP has asked, of course, an important issue in the area of protection of minority rights, that Serbia is in the negotiation process and as the only candidate country, which had the obligation to create and implement an action plan for national minorities under Chapter 23 of the rule of law. I have to tell you that so far, some 70% of the obligations have been fulfilled in relation to the projected activities, and tomorrow is the presentation of a new activity report, and I expect it to be either at the same level, and I expect maybe more. The main activity of recent times has actually been the Law on Councils done in co-operation with the Council of Europe. Next election, like you said, November 4th. We are praised for providing textbooks, therefore, in the languages of national minorities by the European Commission. Still, I think, for the Albanian national minority to provide textbooks, and after a long break since 2014, the first mixed minority commission with Croatia has been held. So we are showing all of this our will to solve all open issues, while at the same time looking for protection and reciprocal rights and our minorities in other countries of the region. So, I have to tell you, I think it is important that more significant remarks by the European Commission, with regard to meeting the provisions of this action plan, are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43851	Thank you. Would you like a two-minute comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43852	Thank you. I will only remind the minister once again that today, during today's day, a person who was only authorized in Novi Pazar to enter, has this code, a card, does not work, that in his place he is like another person, and that yesterday, for which there are witnesses, four people were on the task. Whether they're doing it alternately, so there's only one online thing, I don't know, but it's definitely that there's that problem and that problem is evident. Also, I would refer to the minister's comment and indeed the situation, when it comes to national minorities and national communities, is improved. As a national community, we have no problem with existing laws to the extent that we have a problem with implementing legal solutions. However, there is no problem with the republican authorities, as much as there is a problem with the members of the national communities and their representatives, and that is something that, if God so, in these elections on November 4th, I hope to correct. Also, I would really like the ministers to get involved in the problem of Professor Cemil Jukovic, who is the victim of political reckonings, random passersby, a respected professor of new market high school, remained a permanent invalid because of the armed conflict between the two political parties, and after that he was absolutely left to himself. None of the competent, local, republican authorities want to help Jukovic at least make his life situation a little easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43853	Thank you. I give my word to Ljupki Mihajlovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43854	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the government, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am pleased to have the opportunity today to ask questions to ministers in the government. Of course, it's a lot of questions, and there's little time, so I'm going to focus on two ministries first, and that's the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour. First of all, the question for Minister Djordjevic, I assume you know that Tuesday was a protest or better to say to mothers and maternity and pregnant women, who have objections to the current Financial Support Act for families with children. They asked for logistics support from Tatjana Macura, and in that sense she did help them organise it, but for the sake of the public to say that only Tatjana Macura and I spoke from politicians at the rally. The assembly was indeed peaceful without any offensive tones and without any offensive words, and only with one wish, which is to consider changing and changing and supplementing this law. In particular, the remarks refer to the number of months that enter the profit account, then to the fact that mothers who have children with disabilities are not allowed the rights of this law, if the child receives other people's care and assistance and the minimum amount that mothers receive is not defined. Somewhere, our conclusion is that here perhaps the biggest problem is that labour rights and the right to some kind of social protection are mixed up. Also a question for Minister Djordjevic, did you speak to the government or do you intend to discuss the return of pensions that have been reduced to pensions in the past four years, because this is not a return, but is practically a suspension of pensions? Also, MP Vladimir Djuric proposed a law that it would be good to declare that money public debt and thus, in the form of bonds for a period of five years, to return that money to pensioners. We don't think that this is the best solution, we can talk about it, maybe the deadline should be longer, maybe in a different way, but, see if there is an initiative and desire in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that people who have worked honestly and devotedly in this country and fought for it are still coming back. For the Minister of Education – can you promise or say that you will advocate that standards for accreditation also include standards relating to the accessibility of higher education institutions for disabled students and, above all, think about architectural and information-communicational, so that they can attend all lectures and fulfil their test obligations equally with other students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43855	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43856	Dear MPs, honourable Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, once again, let us try to explain to the details how and how the financial support for families with children works. The basis of everything, when you want to give something, is that you have real resources from where you give it and that you have a guarantee that this right that you give will not compromise the country's financial system. We in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to maternity care and when we compare other EU countries and when we compare other Western countries that should be examples, Serbia in this case can be an example of how and how it treats mothers. In the Republic of Serbia, mothers are guaranteed 12 months for the first child, for every other child 24 months and five years for special care of the child. We also have countries in Europe that are much more developed than Serbia, so they give, when it comes to that basis, much less. We also have the U.S. as an example of what democracy is, so they give mothers three months of sick leave and make up for zero. Serbia does not want to look up to these countries, Serbia wants to be an example to others, so when this is, but of course, in line with its capabilities. I'll tell you later and what the amounts are and why I'm saying all this. When it comes to other people's care and help, we have other people's care and help for a child, we have someone else's care and help for another person. There's only one mistake. So the mother has the right to use either one or another right, with the first right to help the child being able to use up to the age of five. We, when the idea of introducing that right, is to help a mother who wants to work on the one hand, and on the other hand, because someone has to take care of her child, the state is socially responsible and wants to give that mother the opportunity to pay for someone while she's at work to take care of him. It's the idea of this financial support family with children. All the other things you say helpers, medications, everything else is in the Health Protection Act. I told you yesterday in the assembly debate that I talked to Minister Loncar, he's here, that we can talk about it, see what's bothering the mother, see in this second law how these rights are to increase in line with the state's capabilities and that what you have the objection see if it's possible to adopt. Of course, the children are our first priority and let's see how and how we do it. It's not the idea of this law. The idea of this law is not social aid, as you say, but an incentive to give birth, so it does not apply to everything that was in Serbia, but only to what will be, and that is the main goal, to have more children. When it comes to incentives, there are two things that the state of Serbia, when it comes to mother care, provides for mothers. It's one variable and one fixed fee. When it comes to variable compensation, that's what mother achieves by her work. It's the right that she gained by her work and which she was about to tear down that system would somehow make an inequality between them, because she's not the same mother who works for a month, she's not the same mother who doesn't work, she's not the same mother who has a higher salary or a lower salary, and she's unfortunately as much as she's paid taxes and contributions, so much on that basis and she gets from the state. But since we want to be responsible for these mothers, we did this second part that's fixed and that other fixed part is a matter of debate where we can say how much our options are at a given moment and whether we can give these mothers more or less. We've been giving to mothers at a level of two years and for the first child at a level of 39,000, I think, never increased again, and that's 100,000 for the first child for two years, 10,000 a month for the second child, for 12,000 ten years and for the fourth child for 18,000 ten years, plus, what people need and our citizens to know, that when we're counting this when you say 12 and 18, we've introduced now into the basis for calculating that supplement of the variable, the first time we've introduced both temporary and occasional jobs and work contracts and an author's contract and a youth cooperative and everything that taxes and contributions are paid to, which was not before July 1st. By July 1st, someone had invented that women with more than 20 million assets had no right to be encouraged, and we abolished it, and I'm not saying that we're not as open as the Government to move on and to meet mothers. Of course we'll do it. As I said to the pensioners, that when the state is better and retired, the first moment is now and that is why we are doing all of this, we are doing exactly to enable our citizens to have a better material position, but only in line with the state's capabilities, and the possibilities of the state are if you have a responsible leadership that in a responsible way cares about having less unemployment, to fight the gray economy, to fight against working on black, to fight to create new jobs, to fight poverty, so you can also have greater income and thus have the opportunity to give more pensions, and also to give our mothers more money. The fact is, in 2008, 25 billion were allocated to mothers. The fact is, in 2017 it was 52 billion. The fact is, it's 58 billion in 2018. The fact is, for mothers, it's going to be set aside next year with a budget of 64 billion. It says that we intend to change something, and we intend to give these mothers more rights, that is, to have more. It's the only way they wouldn't make any discrimination, only if in this fixed area when we give to mothers, we give to all mothers. There is no mother who has, who does, who does not work, who has more, who has less, who works shorter, and who works longer, we adjudicate discrimination by giving all mothers, and that's the only way to be equal to everyone and be transparent and to be just, and that's the idea of this government. Also, you know we talked about those three and five salaries. I told you that we will take care and as Government, here, there is my colleague Slavica Djukić Dejanović, who has said countless times back these days – yes, the next change will be in that direction to find the mechanism, not perhaps three or five salaries, but to go to that maximum basis which is to calculate taxes and contributions, which at this point is close to 330,000. Why five salaries? We can also go to that base if we can control and know that in one transparent way whoever deserved to have that kind of compensation and give it away. Not only are we going to give them that, but even if there were no mothers who had it right so far, but if a mother shows up until the amendment and the addition of that law, we will certainly provide by law that it applies retroactively, as for this second, third and fourth child, which we are now giving new solutions that apply these greater amounts to them than the last law, so we will also do the revision of these solutions and we will give these mothers and the greater amounts and we will make up for everything. The last thing I wanted to say to you is that certainly when it comes to pensions and your second question, we in the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to give pensioners bigger pensions. The government's policy is that at this point pensions are much less than the minimum consumer basket. That's what we think needs to be fixed in the future. We believe that pensions should grow and that it is the best way for pensioners to see what we are doing together, which is the success of all citizens of Serbia, it is the success of our economy, it can be poured on them and it can be better for them. When we succeed in achieving what will be satisfactory for us, when it comes to the economic position of our pensioners, then we can all talk together about putting into law that future pensions are always harmonised and that we never, ever as a society, allow them to be less than minimum consumer baskets. Now, that's, I mean, real politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43857	Thank you. The word is Mladen Sarčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43858	If you'll excuse me, I'd start by saying that you're right and that in the Law on Higher Education that we adopted in 2017, we prescribed the obligation of higher education institutions to provide conditions for students with disabilities in accordance with their abilities, as well as in accordance with their general act, so that they must inform all students who are interested in this. The national accreditation body carrying out the tasks of accreditation of higher education institutions, by applying the standards for accreditation adopted by the National High Education Council, on a proposal from that national accreditation body, in the form of a sublegal act, the Regulations, should regulate this. In view of the above, the National Council for Higher Education may, by means of a Regulation on standards for accreditation of higher education institutions, establish a part relating to the provision of conditions for students with disabilities within the framework of an obligation prescribed by the Higher Education Act. My personal position is that I will stand up for this at the High Education Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43859	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43860	Dear ladies and gentlemen, only for retirement. The government and the president worked intensively during the previous period so that pensions would be significantly higher today than they were before the cuts, and today we have a situation that the pension fund's budget does not spend more than 30% to 31% of the pension fund. Unfortunately, in 2012, we had that stake above 60%. What does that mean? That means there were no employees. There were no employees because there were no investments, there was no solidity in the state, there was no stability, there was no idea how to attract people who would open up factories and jobs, and therefore the filling of the pension fund was lagging behind. Thus, all the burden was passed on to the budget, which was significantly less than it is today, and you have a situation that it was those who led this kind of irresponsible policy to make pensions smaller. They reduced pensions by a policy that led to the fact that we were on the verge of whether the state would be able to pay a single pension, not how much it would be, but whether it would be able to pay them at all. No matter what anyone says, just a serious and responsible policy, it's easy to run a policy that only tells people what they think they need to like and only something that will be nice and comfortable, anyone can. You have a policy today that guarantees an increase in pensions every year. We have a chance that already today they are much bigger, they will be bigger after the next increase that has been going on this year, they will be bigger than they have been before the cuts, and every year you will have a chance for pensioners to get more and more. This is the result of responsible policy. Why is that possible? It is possible because today we are negotiating the opening of new factories in Serbia and new thousands of people will be employed. We had 26% unemployment in Serbia in 2012, today we have less than 12%. It's filled in one piece and a pension fund, but it has to be done, there must be serious people who will be able to lead the country in a way that people are employed. This is how pensions are increased and that is what guarantees the policy represented by both President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43861	Thank you. The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43862	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic, for showing you the desire to discuss this and how much I have realized there will be changes and additions to the law. But you're talking about incentives, and you know well that our rate of violence against women is high, we also have great mortality, and one of the key conditions for this to decrease is to increase the economic independence of women. If someone worked for two years and lost his job, then after two years, he had a child, practically nothing goes on average for her. We have to make a minimum amount if we're really going to encourage a birth to encourage mothers to decide, first of all on the first child, and then we're going to talk about the second, third and fourth. As for other people's care and help, we either don't talk about the same compensation or someone in the ministry doesn't understand. I'm personally a beneficiary of an extra for other people's care and help because I've been evaluated for disability, on these scales, that I need additional support for some things, and therefore additional money. Children are users of other people's care based on a degree of disability assessment. It says here, in Article 12. – The right to profit compensation, i.e. salary while away from work, for the purpose of special care of the child cannot be achieved for a child who has earned the right. So, Mom can't exercise the right to make a profit, or pay, it says in Article 12, please agree and see what and how. As far as pensions are concerned, you didn't answer me if there was going to be an increase. We support the fact that you've stabilized the budget. When you talk about results, it's a question of who you're comparing yourself with. It's not about being better, the point is to be the best and always be better, so please answer me if there's going to be a retirement return or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43863	Thank you. You asked Minister Djordjevic. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43864	Thank you. When it comes to violence against women, unfortunately it is a phenomenon that exists with us and that we all have to fight together and we are witnessing that it is not only physical, but there is a verbal thing that you saw the other day by the leader Željko Veseinović, who, in his statement, I think, just did this verbal violence against women. We have to fight these things in our country, we all have to condemn such a thing together, not hide behind some other statements and say that someone else apologized, and apologized on behalf of all of us. When it comes to caring for these women, right now, I expect her to enter the Assembly procedure of the Social Entrepreneurship Act this year. It's one of the ways that we want to help these women who need to start some of their own business, to be economically independent, and to be able to manage their lives when, unfortunately, they've spent the previous part of their lives with a bully and who at this point are financially dependent. We want and there we will need the help of all of you to make this law in one of your segments and present care for these women. When it comes to pensions and the return of pensions, as you say, and by the very act that the Government is now in need, or the Assembly has proposed to the government, to adopt this law on amendments and supplements, in all segments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly, will, by its vote, meet the pensioners. Pensioners will receive an increase that so far is the largest, as the Deputy Prime Minister said Nebojsa Stefanovic, the largest so far, which is primarily the result of the work, as I have told all citizens. The primary expression of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, which, by its responsible policy since 2014, has taken the burden on itself that these measures, which may have initially been to someone, I say, are unacceptable, but, now four years later, we can talk about the results which are back two years, give us the right to talk about good results and that Serbia is waiting for better days. The pension ratio that will be compared to October 2014 is from 8% to 13.3%. I'll read it to you one more time, and I think that's what our citizens deserve to hear from our pensioners. So, a pension that was 26,000 dinars, 2014 now after the cut will be 29.332 dinars, a pension that was 36,000, will be 41,005 dinars, a pension that was 50,000, will be 53,954 dinars, a pension that was 100,000 being 107,907 dinars. Which means that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its results that this can be carried out, not by loans, not by borrowing, not by bonds, but by real sources. The PIO Fund predicted at the beginning of 2018 that it would be necessary from the Republika Srpska budget to provide 185 billion. Now with the rebalancing ahead of you MPs, that rebalance says it takes 178 billion dinars, but 178 billion dinars along with the increase in these pensions, for all users, and for that to take less resources, which means that by not pulling seven billion dinars, the PIO fund can now provide the possibility of building another kindergarten, another school, to fix the home of health, to fix the hospital, to provide treatment for one of our children. What's important is what we talked about earlier, maybe even that part of the other part, that we can talk about together, which is the support of our mothers, but I'm just asking you to talk about that support having to apply to all mothers. We can't favour as much as we want, because the idea of this Financial Support Act isn't social aid. So there's another law for that. The idea of this law is an incentive. This incentive must apply to all women in the Republic of Serbia. Employees, unemployed, with a small salary, a large salary or those who work for a year, or a month, or those who work for 15 years, everything has to be identical. It's the only way we can be fair, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, I have to tell you, any next amendment to the law will certainly be just a greater benefit to mothers here in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43865	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43866	What I want to talk about is not my portfolio, but it is the obligation of every man and especially someone who is engaged in public affairs and has the honour of being in this high house before you distinguished Members of the People's Parliament, which is a subject that has been initiated, a question of violence against women. What Veseinovic did, that attitude, an open call to violence, that attitude of hatred towards women, is not something new, it repeats. I'll remind you that Mr. Jeremic told the Prime Minister it was a creation. And, as no one apologized then, no one apologized then either. There was no apology, he expressed his regret to his coalition partners if they searched for it, but not because of what he said and not because of what he obviously meant and wanted to happen to the Prime Minister. And, if it wasn't for the Prime Minister, that any human being is another, as you can say, write, think and obviously be, or want something like that to happen. Not without saying an apology that I have the right to tell you that I should accept. Why accept such a thing? Someone commits the most terrible crime, tells you the most terrible insult and then says I'm sorry. And then everything's fine. Well, it's not right. It can't be right, but we didn't even hear that. We didn't even hear him understand what he did. We haven't heard a word of regret and what's worse than the whole coalition that is with him, we haven't heard anything but trying to be so terrible an insult, such a terrible threat to a woman, to be relativized and to say -- well, that's nothing, just that and nothing more. It's hard to be so civilized, just so much and nothing more. But as we can see, they will continue to behave that way. I have had the honor of defending the Labour Act. I also had the honour of defending the amendments to the pension laws, and then we were bringing one measure that at the time, the Dossow opposition mocked and said that it would never happen, which is that we would increase pensions when they were below 11% of our budget. That's when they laughed. Saying it's a lie, a lie. The moment it happened, we, as you can see, increased pensions. Now, that's the word, that's how the country is taken out of bankruptcy, that's how a responsible policy is being conducted that in 2012, when we took responsibility for managing this country, pensions paid 58% out of the budget. That means we didn't earn 58%, but it had to be thrown out of the budget somehow. Now it's 33%, 37% how-when. Now, it's a responsible state and it's because Vukic is opening a factory, and that's because something is created and done in this country, and it's not a loan to pay off pensions. That's why the laws you've had here are both revolutionary and good and they're kept to their word. The big thing is that it's such an extended level, an extended range of users of maternity benefits. It wasn't even at the time of socialism, that absolutely every kind of contract, every form of contribution a woman pays to her country returns to a certain percentage. That's never been done before. So far, a very narrow circle of users could expect the country to be compensated, and that is something to be welcomed. It's something that we all need to be happy about together, and yet it's possible from real sources. There will be no credit because this country is being taken into account by serious and responsible people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43867	Thank you. Would you like a comment? (Lujka Mihajlovska: Yes. The word of LJupka Mihajlovska has a people's messenger:
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43868	As far as hate speech and discrimination are concerned, we do not share people in power or opposition or my colleagues in the Centre Movement and Parliament Group Free MPs condemn, of course, that kind of speech. Indeed, according to Slobodan Jovanovic, the state should be a moral institution for man rearing, and we really need to take care of what we say. Minister Sarčević, there's just one more thing I'd like to tell you, it's not just the Higher Education Act. This is also foreseen by the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Do not be fooled when you are convinced that this is impossible because many college buildings are protected monuments of culture, because, of course, it is true, but there is a way to implement adaptation and when the facility is protected, if Sagrada Familia is accessible to the persons who use the wheelchair, all of Gaudi's houses citizens 100 years ago, Shembrun and various other museums around Europe, that I am not counting, it is certainly no less cultural and historicalally significant buildings than the buildings of our colleges and, believe me, all the aids that people with disabilities use are part of their personal space and when someone is carrying you, here to explain to the citizens, it is just like if anyone who moves independently took into their arms and thereby disrupted its integrity and authority. Look at the University of Belgrade building as accessible today and, believe me, it's largely because I've been crying a lot of meetings going there when they have to carry me, so anything is possible and I really expect that you will at least this term as regards students with disabilities to fight to get in, because if I can get in, from the lab and the equipment to be, it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43869	Thank you. The word has Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43870	I am asking the Government and the Minister of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, Mr Branko Ruzic, the Honored President of Parliament, the Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Why has the Albanian minority been punished this time in elections for national councils of national minorities, where we have been reduced from 29 to 15 representatives? Your ministry does not respect the Council of Europe's decision, where it says they must not be denied the rights of a minority if they have not entered the census, as is the case with our minority, and with full justification we have boycotted the 2011 census due to the composition of the commission to our damage and because of the failure to comply, demands that citizens who have been deleted from the records or legally invisible persons or who have lost their documents due to the war events in our municipalities. Also, you do not respect the OSCE agreement when you decided to bring in an expert commission from America, England and the EU, which have come to assess the number of inhabitants in these municipalities. Under these procedures, the denial of collective rights has been lifted from us by the General Court in Presevo and the General Prosecutor's Office in Bujanovac and instead of the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, we only have the D.A.'s office for Bujanovac and Presevo. Therefore, we are losing funding by about 40% in the National Council of Albanians and of 29 representatives in the National Council, now and after the second term we are scheduled with 15 representatives in the National Council. Why? Because we count as 5,800 Albanians, as per the 2011 list. We ask again why the 2015 International Commission's assessment was not taken? Thank you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43871	Thank you. The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43872	Thank you, President. Mr. Hasani, thank you for this question. So, as you know very well, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities in Article 9 provides that the number of members of the National Councils is to be determined by the last census in 2011. According to that list, exactly what you said is a total of 5,809 citizens have declared themselves members of the Albanian national minority. Also, Article 9(2) states that if, according to the latest census results, less than 10,000 citizens are registered as members of a national minority, the national council numbers 15 members. It is also true that it has been reduced by about three million dinars practically the level of funding of the Albanian National Council. In accordance with Article 113, these financial resources shall be allocated to all national councils of 30%, and 70% of these funds shall be allocated to a relative number of members of the national minority and, of course, in accordance with the total number of foundations, institutions, companies, whose founders or founders are national councils or their founding rights are partly transferred to a specific national council. What is also very important, is that you said that, unfortunately, a large number of members of the Albanian national minority in 2011 boycotted the census, but it is also true that on 20 June in this house, we had the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Minority Councils, that that law was then passed with two votes, and that before that, no amendment that would possibly lead to the change and improvement of the status of members of the Albanian national minority and as regards the number of members of the National Council and regarding the level of funding. So no amendment has been submitted in this House, and you certainly know the Rules of Procedure about the work of this House, and you know that there is a possibility of doing something like that. You also mentioned the assessment. The assessment is quite compatible with what the Republic Statistics Institute said before and estimates suggest that 29,600 citizens live in Preshevo, in Bujanovac, 38,300, in Medvedja 7,400. I say on purpose citizens because we're not, that assessment doesn't apply to the national structure by number, and that assessment can certainly be an orientation, but in no way can it be stronger than the law so that what we could change in this house on June 20th, and we could have used that opportunity to submit the amendment and to come to some agreement. It is also very important to me as Minister of Government, and I would like to see as many members of the Albanian national minority as possible using their passive or active electoral right to participate in the November 4th elections. I hope that will be the intensity of the vast majority of you. I also hope that we can come to a sustainable solution if simply one kind of dialogue that is already under way with both the Prime Minister and all of us is implemented to the end and all of those mechanisms and tools that are available to you, which, unfortunately, you sometimes do not use in full capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43873	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. No Rules of Procedure. Ambassador, read the provisions. Milorad Mircic: How can there be no Rules of Procedure? ) Because you haven't read the Rules of Procedure, and now let me give the word, supplement Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43874	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is that the international commission estimated that 29,600 people for Presevo, 38,300 for Bujanovac and 7,400 for Medvedja, but when the number of Serbs and Roma decreases, it turns out again that we are over 50,000. We're at the National Council... Milorad Mircic: We have been waiting two years to ask a question. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43875	I ask you MPs to calmly listen to the question of Ambassador Fatmir Hasani. We're working till 19.05. Be patient. (Milorad Mircic: Two years are not... ) Do not shout, see Article 216. (Milorad Mircic: You are doing the opposite logic... Don’t let me make any warnings. Here you go. (Milorad Mircic: Let one ask a question, we can't get to the turn. ) (Employees of the SRS Group leave the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43876	We've already calculated and now we think that you know logically that we're not 5,809 inhabitants, but we're behind on other minorities. We are neither guilty nor debtor first, we are not recognised diplomas acquired in Kosovo, and you know that we have all graduated there and now we are not guilty of bad relations between Pristina and Belgrade. Also, our minority lags behind in the integration of Albanians into state bodies and institutions. We still have a problem with textbooks, not to mention economic development, where unemployment is about 60%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43877	Thank you. The word is Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43878	Thank you, President. Very short. So, of course, the topic of textbooks is not exclusively resolutely related to this ministry, but the issue is resolved and there would be, there was also a good bridge of communication and we know what the role of the National Council is and you know very well how the National Council of the Albanian National Minority dealt with its obligations regarding textbooks. Also, on this day, we have 34.160 members of the Albanian national minority listed in the special polling list and do not dispute the fact that, thank God, a much greater number of members of the national minority than has been shown by the list, through the will of the great majority, unfortunately, members of the Albanian minority and by a legitimate act are boycotting. Of course, out of that act of boycott, unfortunately some of the conventions we've been trying to solve here for years. So certainly one good step forward or step forward would be to really take as many members of the Albanian national minority as possible in these elections on November 4th, take advantage of their active or passive voting rights and affirmations later and their language and their culture and tradition, as well as of all 21 other national minorities who will participate in these elections. I remind you, almost 13% of Serbia's total population are members of national minorities, and I think it's fair and correct to give no one the exclusiveity of this type, but that everyone enjoys the rights prescribed by the laws. I would remind you that just 15 days ago, high-ranking OSCE Human Rights Commissioner Lamberto Zanier was in Belgrade and expressed great satisfaction with the high standards of protection of minority rights, which in certain segments exceeds the standards of some EU member states. I don't see a more reference organization than the OSCE to point out something like that, and we're really very proud of all the praises that we get as a government in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43879	Thank you. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 216. Rules of Procedure. I repeat this because of the procedure of the MPs of the SRS group who objected against respecting the Rules of Procedure. I think it's quite clear that we respect him. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43880	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, a few days ago we heard that your policy towards one of the most important state and national issues was defeated and that we had been defeated by the glorious five zeroes we had led, as officials told us in the Kosovo dialogue, by the president saying that his policy had been defeated. How, I quote him: "This policy of mine to keep a lot of things in KIM obviously did not win in Serbia, because Serbs like to lose everything because Serbs like to complain about their own destiny, they prefer to cry over something that remains far away from having something in their hands. “ So some policy is defeated, we don’t know which one. The National Party and Alliance for Serbia's KIM policies are clear, and this is conducting dialogue with Kosovo Albanians in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244. I ask the question, what is this policy that was defeated, which was led by the president, because none of the citizens of Serbia knew it, nor did we MPs here in parliament? It is ultimately the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is this the demarcation policy that she lost, because we only heard about her because the president said he was for disseminating with Albanians? That means he wanted to distinguish Serbia from Serbia, trade ours for ours. If this policy has failed, I ask the question which is the next policy the Serbian government will lead in a Brussels dialogue with Kosovo Albanians and ask you to inform the Serbian Parliament and citizens about it. As far as demarcation policy is concerned, it is very good that this policy has been defeated and it is good news for everyone in Serbia because you have worked for six years to create preconditions for this demarcation policy. You've abolished Serbian institutions, you've given everything to the Albanians, you've given an invitation number. You allowed Kosovo to become a member of both the FIFA and the International Olympic Committee. You forced our judges to take an oath before Hashim Thaci, forced Serbs to go to the Kosovo elections and make a government with Ramush Haradinaj. You set firm limits on December 10, 2012 and were on the verge of doing what no one has ever done, which is to give voluntarily and give up the works of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija and our citizens living there. When a policy of this importance, the most important national policy at the moment, is defeated, or you who led it, the question of responsibility is raised. Who's responsible? Since you place it on the crying people of Serbia, the lossful people of Serbia, I am telling you that you have suffered defeat, and no one else, and that behind this is a resignation and I call on you to resign all and the Government and the President of the Republic and to go to a new election with a new policy, since this one has suffered your defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43881	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43882	Apparently, some people here have mixed their policies with someone else, since the KIM dialogue for a while has led to the UN for a long time. Why the UN? Because the UN has the mandate to carry out such a kind of dialogue, especially because of the adoption of Resolution 1244, even then for the SRJ. The KIM-based UNMIK mission has been authorized to carry out many procedural issues related to KIM status, but also to citizens' daily lives. Negotiations were held within the framework and under the auspices of the UN in which Serbia has states that strongly support its statehood in KIM, which support our sovereignty and which have mechanisms and through the UN Security Council and other institutions not to allow a vote, condition, meorisation and everything else. In a wise policy, this is a wise understanding of the very ironic, wise policy of Vuk Jeremic, Djilas, Tadic, all others, they make a decision to transfer from the UN to the EU at that time, knowing that the largest number of Member States, and certainly the most powerful, have recognised so-called. Independence of KIM. What does that mean, losing all national positions, handing over the tray? You put into the hands of those who have recognised KIM's independence, you give them the opportunity to do whatever they want, do absolutely whatever they want, and then figure out how to negotiate, pushing everything possible. You gave everything that could be given, led to the end of the whole. Borders on Jarinj and Brnjak, set limits. Borders, people. The Serbs came to fight, to fight there, to set those borders on fire so they wouldn't allow it. They sent the police to kick their ass. The wonderful politics of Jeremic, Tadic, Gilas, all of these. They broke down those people who went to show that they did not agree with such a policy of Jeremiah, Tadic, Gilas, and all those who did it. Top of the line. I guess since that wasn't enough for them, I guess the countries haven't admitted enough yet, have they? The issue of independence before the International Court of Justice is then conceived in the stupidest way possible, in a way, let's do what's stupid, rather than being harmful to the interests of the Republic of Serbia, dramatically, dramatically. The consequences of this opinion were that there was a new big wave of countries that then recognized the so-called. Independence of KIM. All in the hands of Jeremic, Tadic, Gilas and all these political bulls. These people have done so many negative things according to Serbia's sovereignty at KIM. So many of them didn't care if he had that man... They don't know where those places are. They weren't there. They haven't met the Serbs twice. They didn't go to ask them what they thought about it. When were they? When they were interested in having a school, a hospital, do they have anything to live on? What did they do to prevent the mass eviction of Serbs from there? What were they doing when he was a pogrom? What were they doing when our kids were killing us? Did they do something, didn't they go down there? They didn't threaten? Did they send the army and the police? Did they do something? And that's the worst thing when you don't do anything at all. Then it's been 10 years and you're pretending, like everything's okay, someone else did. You did it! You! You did it, you did it! From that moment on, someone had to fight hard. I'm sorry, they didn't start pulling the so-called "land" in their time. Kosovo's independence, recognition of KIM's independence. They didn't start at the time, but now, at the time of this president, at the time of this government. They're doing it now. They're doing it now. I'm sorry, what country did you withdraw earlier, which one did you provide? Give me one. What institution did you fight for? Not one. Not one. Now it's done a lot differently. It's done by looking people in the eye first, and Alexander Vukic has made a lot of moves. First of all, when it comes to the Brussels dialogue we are now calling upon, around the Serb municipalities community, it guarantees the Serbs survival. It guarantees Serbs survival. We fight to make it happen. Are we satisfied that Kosovo Albanians and the EU will not take this seriously because they haven't met for five years? Of course not. We say it openly. We say here in this House. We say it in public. We tell them here when they come, we look them in the face and we say. We don't have a problem saying that. We must fight to make it happen to the Serbs. That's what Alexander Vukic does and he doesn't mind going to the Serbs, he doesn't mind talking to these people. In the end, Aleksandar Vucic, as president of Serbia, received 80% of the KIM vote, support for these people. You know, don't let any of us take the right to know better how to live on KIM than someone who lives there. Let those salon politicians who know everything well, just the most expensive hotel in New York to choose, a penthouse in Manhattan and rent a plane and tickets to pay through their wife's brother's company. These people don't have to tell us how to live on KIM, because they have no idea, nor do they care, and Serbs need to tell us even less, but only to return to the chair. If it could go back to the chair at any cost, whatever it is, even the blood on the streets to fall, and they didn't call for violence a few times, and this against women, and God damn it on the street, from the Ukrainian script to that - this can't go to the polls, but let's go to the stick. It can't do that. For KIM must fight, it must fight wisely, as Alexander Vukic does when he makes opinions, which when he makes proposals he does it in the best interests of the Republic of Serbia and always said – I will not do it without my people, we will do it with the support of the people, with a referendum. When we have a program that can get support, that can be realized, something we can accomplish, we'll go out in front of people. It's a policy that can bring something good to the Serbs at KIM. What was before us, so if it had continued for another three years, it would have been erased from the historical and geographical textbooks called KIM, it wouldn't have existed. So, they say, there was no after that. That's what it looked like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43883	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43884	In 2004, when Serbs were exposed to Serbia's scariest pogrom, Serbia and Tadic kept quiet. The whole world was expecting, and those who love us and those who don't love us expected Serbia to do something. They were preparing to respond to what would happen if Serbia reacted militaryly, politically, diplomaticly. Serbia didn't do anything. In 2004, when the last major ethnic cleansing in Europe was completed, Serbia was silent and did nothing. You had a chance to show us your policy in 2004, and patriotism, and courage and everything else, you showed us nothing. In 2008, when the false state of Kosovo was declared, the whole world expected Serbia's reaction, both military and diplomatic and political, whatever you want. Serbia reacted by making Tadic flee to Romania because of earlier commitments. Serbia didn't do anything. In 2008, Serbia, led by Tadic and Jeremic, decided to pretend that nothing had happened, to keep quiet, because we do not admit it, and because we have introduced a policy -- we do not recognise it, we have allowed the Serbian state to leak from Kosovo and Metohija by pretending that everything is okay, that nothing has changed, and everything has changed, but our reactions have not been. In 2011, the border between Serbs and Serbs was introduced, and when Serbs tried to tear down the border, they ended up in prisons, Serbian prisons, not Albanian prisons, Serbian prisons. You arrested them then. They were then arrested for breaking the border between Serbs and Serbs. In 2012, when the talks in Brussels began, European negotiators told us - we have nothing to negotiate with you, but fill out what Stefanovic, Jeremic, Tadic agreed before you. What is now happening in northern Kosovo and Metohija, an attempt to introduce RCS plates, it was agreed before 2012. We haven't applied it since then, and we've struggled not to apply it, as we fight. If we had applied all the agreements Stefanovic, Jeremic, Tadic, agreed, we would have nothing to call on, we would have nothing more to negotiate. We have kept from then until today and our charts and our ID cards and all our documents and registration of our businesses. It was all agreed to go away, all agreed before 2012. Should I remind you, let's read a little Wikilix, what does Jeremic say in this Wikilix? Delay recognition of Kosovo only until elections pass. No, he didn't say -- don't admit Kosovo, but -- just delay until the elections are through and we'll agree on everything. The WikiLeaks broadcasts the dispatches sent by US diplomats, he says -- we'll make a deal, it's already done, but just don't do it now until the election. And it was politics. It then went to the UN with a Russian Federation sponsor then and a large majority in the General Assembly, and ended literally overnight with a resolution sponsored by the EU, which introduces EULEX. We threw out the UN, where we had such a chance, such as such a force, to reduce the conscious influence of UNMIK and KFOR, which were as statusally neutral as possible and introduced a EULEX that was not statusual at the beginning, which stems from the assumption that Kosovo is an independent state and that it is only there to defuse and help. It couldn't have done it without Serbs, it couldn't have done it without the state of Serbia, it couldn't have done it without the leadership of the Serbian state and it happened. Now you're trying to criticize Alexander Vukic, who came to Brussels in 2012, where he was told to - implement what was previously agreed on, we have nothing to negotiate. But the situation changed, but then, thanks to him, his tenacity changed, and to this day it changed. Well, in 2012, they told us that there was no more Serbian state that everything was over, that everything had failed, that everyone had gone, there would be no salary, there would be no pension. Will there be no salary and pension? Aren't there any salaries and pensions coming? Is more than 40,000 personal incomes not paid every month in Kosovo and Metohija? So what do they pay off than from the Serbian state? Goran Bogdanovic throws. ) There is no payment from the Kosovo authorities, sir, of which you received salary at a time when no Serb wanted to be connected in any way, and the Serbian state said there should be no contact with Albanian parties and leadership you were the minister of agriculture. You were the minister of agriculture in the Kosovo government. By the way, four men voted for you, as far as I know. You, my wife, and these two have never been able to prove who it is. Never. So, don't you who recognised Kosovo statehood before they thought they'd find a Serb from the north of Kosovo who can be in the Kosovo state, don't even call about it. The Serbian state's policy is to fight for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Alexander Vukic has always had the courage to go before the Serbs, talk to them and tell them everything he thinks and good and bad and stay with them. Besides, what's your problem? So now go to Kosovo and Metohija. Talk to people. There's something you're not going to do. No one's defending you. They're defending me. They keep banning me from leaving. No one's defending you. You guys go. You go to them, talk to the Serbs, but I don't know if they want to talk to you because they remember you, because they remember what you did and how you did, so they won't listen to you. I'm defended by Albanians, not by Serbs, but you and the Serbs to see, nor by them to come. The wolf's policy is not to repeat proprom. And when they tried a month ago to violently invade the north, both the army and the police rose and gave up their entry to the north. They came back just a second ago. When you ask, what have we done? That's what we did. If it were you, you'd go north. You'd be holding a rally. You'd say -- well, it happened, we will, but we don't admit it. You'd say, "We don't admit it, and that's enough." This is a policy that won't be repeated and won't happen again. Such a policy is not and cannot be defeated, and we will fight to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43885	Thank you. Do you want to ask another question?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43886	As usual to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to us MPs, you have not answered a single question that I have asked and your six-year practice continues that everyone else is guilty except you of what is happening today in Serbia. You change the thesis and deceive citizens like you did in the past six years. So all you said were lies, brutal lies, starting with administrative crossings. The agreement was signed by then by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic on 6 December 2012, to remind you, you were in that government, as well as in that same agreement rules on the establishment of customs duties, as well as what you are saying to the UN. I don't know what you're looking for at the UN Security Council if they no longer have any jurisdiction over the issue of Kosovo's problem. As far as you're concerned, I'd like to ask you -- do you know what this is, gentlemen dear? This is the decision of the Kosovo government signed by your coalition partner Ramush Haradinaj, who is building on the part of Gracanica territory, several hundred meters, less than 200 metres from the Gracanica monastery, the responsibility of King Milan, and building the Kosovo government where institutions from Pristina will be moved 150 metres from our monastery. This is what you do and tell the citizens that you are guarding Serbia's territory or that you have already set out to distinguish yourself as secretly as your rule is. Since we know that this policy of yours has been defeated and the people of mourning and the people of Serbia and the losers and the igumans Sava Janjic and Rada Trajkovic and the Alliance for Serbia and the opposition, I will ask you who is responsible for some other things. In the previous period, we could hear from you and find out how many window washers die every 10 seconds in America. We have learned that Mr. Vukic has reached a historic agreement with the Chinese to export their pig heads and tails in exchange for flying cars, that the Arabs are our brothers, and therefore you should give them both Serbian orans and the country and the PKK. We also learned that the golden age had arrived, that wages and pensions were never higher, that two buildings on the water would start the entire economy of Serbia. What we didn't find out I'm asking you to answer to me and the citizens of Serbia -- who killed Oliver Ivanovic and how far did the murder investigation come? Who crashed under phantoms in Savamali on April 24th two years ago? Who is responsible for the fall of the support wall on Corridor and what are the results of the BIA investigation? Why isn't it so far when the facility will be destroyed illegally built on Pancic's top? Why is Serbia still on the FATFA blacklist, suspected of financing terrorism and money laundering, and how long will you lie to this people?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43887	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43888	First of all, the borders in Jarinj, Brnjak, were set in 2011. You can look at that even when they're on fire. What did people burn in 2011, when they were gone? What they burned but you set them up as borders, not administrative ones, was set up by Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, Djilas, the whole bulument of Borko Stefanovic. Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, negotiated and signed it nicely with the EU, Kosovo Albanians, IBM signed at the time. This is integrated border management, IBM, ‘integrity of boarder management’. Not the administrative crossing, the border. That's how they established it in 2011. I'm sorry people won't admit what's true, but this is a document that can be found. This is something she didn't say, she said. In 2011, the government established border crossings between two parts of Serbia, and it was wonderful, perfect. Then he says -- it's not true, what is now being negotiated in the UN? Well, they're fighting people. People are struggling to pull out what can be ripped out, and you have transferred the negotiations on the fate of KIM, with the consent of Serbia, the then Serbian government. With the agreement of Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic and Djilas and Tadic, since none of them did, not that they did not object but actively participated, negotiations in the EU's cover, although they knew we had such a good chance of convincing Germany, England, France and all other countries that Kosovo was part of our country, and not independent of what they acknowledged in 2008, nor did anyone from that government shake much. Then so few chances, from that moment on, became for Serbia to vote for something sovereignty, by the decision of the then state authorities, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo Albanians themselves couldn't do that. Neither could the EU itself. Negotiations were in the UN. Then we cheated on our international partners, then we did not inform those who fought with us most for our sovereignty at KIM, we did not say – well, we will transfer everything to the EU. I just don't know why. What good did that do us? What good did that do the Serbs at KIM? What brings the state to Serbia? What brought her citizens? Not that it didn't do any good, it brought a lot of evil, and that's true. What happened to Pogrom in 2007? What happened to 2008 and confession, so-called Independence? Who did something then? Is there something that's not true? Did they do something about it? What did they do? Nothing. It was their thunderous silence, and they managed all the levers and the state and the military and the police and international affairs and justice and all the rest, not to talk, not to go back, and sometimes to be reminded. Remember the terrorist attacks on police officers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who were brutally killed both in 1997 and 1998 and in 1999? Do you remember any court proceedings? Do you remember any subsequent court proceedings when those convicted, some in absentia, for the crime of terrorism, were released, groups who were in prisons of Serbia were released? In Serbia's prisons there were terrorists, and then someone let them out of those prisons. It was 2001, 2002, 2003, released from prison. Alexander Vukic did not release them in 2001, 2002 and 2003. It's not. Those who passed the Law on Amnesty and decided that terrorists who killed our country's police and citizens and soldiers, to let them go free, were fighting for Serbia's sovereignty in KIM, that it was indescribable, just like when they transferred the UN decision to the EU, just when they established borders on Jarinj and Brnjak, so they fought. You know how they still fought for Serbia? Here's the thing. You know what this is? This is a picture of what happened. The Heterland Castle was supposed to be something where children distracted in development would have their own accommodations and nearly two million euros were spent here to sort this out, and you see how they got him. It's not a brick, it's the money that's gone. That's how they fought for pensions for both salaries and children and for Kosovo. Like this, my interest, my company, my plane, my hotel, it can, and for children, for people for Kosovo, for retirement routes, nothing. Not anything but a fat minus. That's how they fought, for the PKK. We can talk about the PKK for days about how top-level the PKK, top-notch. So, it's the only, apparently, accident of Gilasov and these teams around him, which, along with Miskovic, failed to privatise it, they didn't arrive, they didn't count on it to leave quickly, it started. They first appointed Miskovic's director from "Delta" as the director of the PKK. They put a man who worked at the Delta Agrar company, then took loans, made about 80m euros in debt, not millions of dinars, 80m euros in debt, then fictitiously, not including those debts, declared that they had won over billions of dinars and given their management, now watch out for the city business 650,000 euros in bonuses. People, that's not what Americans did. Over the salary, over everything, and they worked for the salary. So, not to waste my time telling you about the mechanisms, but when they bought the machinery, this director who came from Delta Agrara, what do you think the PKK started buying the machinery from? By accident from ‘Delta’. It's a great thing. It's a responsibility, honesty, no conflict of interest, all the acquisitions just "Delta agrar", the former director of Delta agrara, all packed up nicely, but failed to put it in, and the debts made so much, so that the company could make some money, I guess that city budget would be full, and we found holes in the city budget. The city deficit was 20%, that was absolutely impossible. There was 20% missing from a wonderful and successful Belgrade. They were so responsible for leading the policy that in 2012 it was not only a question of whether we would be able to pay one more pension, whether we would be able to pay the salaries. Will Serbia ever be able to get on its feet. And being respected in the world, it was a miracle. That if the third secretary of some embassy came to visit us, they were happy then. Today, when Alexander Vukic heads the country, the president and the prime minister of China come, the president of Russia comes, the prime minister of Germany comes, the presidents and prime ministers from almost all European countries come, the presidents and prime ministers of the great countries of the world and from the United States, India, all others who respect this country and today Serbia has their own voice. Today, Serbia can win international forums, the battles it leads. Not in all, we still have to fight, but today Serbia knows what it is doing, because Aleksandar Vukic is taking care of his country and his people, not his chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43889	The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43890	Thank you. If I may add something, since you asked a question about why someone was in the UN. You know, we all forget that at the moment when the UN negotiation process was moved under the auspices of the EU, the international administration was not suspended at KIM. There is no suspension of the international administration of KIM today, and we all forget that very often. You should also remember that after you ask the question why is it or how is it or what policy has failed? I think you should ask the question as to how possible, here I as Minister for European Integration often ask the question, how is it possible that the EU as someone who facilitates dialogue and guarantees the agreement by signing a joint agreement with Madam Ashton as High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, was succeeded by Madame Mogerini, who is the mediator, so how is it possible that the Brussels Agreement with the EU guarantee and with a recent promise that by August 4th, a group of Serb municipalities will be established, how is it possible that you do not ask the question, and I, as Minister of Government, am in charge of European integration? So how is it possible that this is happening? Which are guarantees, therefore, given by the EU, rather than from Serbia, about Federica Mogerini asking to preserve Kosovo's territorial integrity and multiethnicity. Well, why didn't you write to Mrs. Mogerini about this, why no Serb municipalities were established on 4 August and why and how did the EU continue and continue to guarantee the application of the Brussels Agreement? In such circumstances, the motion for a solution, so that can go officially, unofficially, is spoken in flexible models, unfortunately experiencing a breakdown, you know, in what sense? In the sense that those who simply do not support Vukic and this government agree with the same view of Kosovo Albanians that they will not talk about anything, not about any demarcation, nor about the Serb municipalities community, anything they will not talk about. Well, it's a failure, when there is no national unity over ideas that can be enforceable and feasible and when political points undermine the possibility that has opened up with a painful and long-term diplomatic act and a wise policy of this government and Vucic. So, you're asking what kind of policy it is? Your policy has failed because you are not ready to support what is reasonable, rational and enforceable. You agree with those who do not share our interests. Now, that's a crash, when we don't have... We can disagree on all the solutions, we can disagree on a whole series of internal, foreign policy issues, that's all legitimate, but if there is no public national unity at the moment when the most important issue is negotiated, I think it's a failure of your policy, and that's just a continuation of what was started unfortunately before 2011, and that has been carried out in a conflicting manner, until some 2013, when the Brussels Agreement along with the EU's mediation, as it had to be, because the negotiation process has been moved, we manage to create some wine-win space, in order to say in theory, the situation comes on the agenda. Therefore, if you asked which policy, you know, for me is the real question - how is no Serb municipality community established on August 4th? And, what I'm asking, of course, is that I'm asking the EU, of course, and we're asking that question, and I'd like you to ask, not Vucic's policy to feel like a failure, but it's a failure when you agree with those who are against Serbia's interest. That's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43891	Minister Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43892	I thank the esteemed president. Dear People's Messengers, so we don't have to answer the question. The question has been raised what happened to Serbian courts in Kosovo and Metohija? It seems to me that the one who asks the question is just a criticism of himself. I will remind you, by 1 January 2010, there were 15 municipal courts, six district courts, one trade court in Kosovo and Metohija. Look at the wonders, on January 1st 2010, no court was left, only the naked primary and senior court in Kosovo Mitrovica remains. What happened to all those judges? They're all cleared. They've lost their jobs, no function at all, with a lousy fee that's been made available to them for the next six months. Why does it matter what happened in 2008, when UNMIK's jurisdiction was lifted, when it was transferred from the UN to the EU? It is very important, because then the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, positively responded to the Secretary-General's letter in all six points delivered, agreed with him to take charge, to assume jurisdiction in the judiciary first and foremost. It was precisely thanks to such a policy, which was confirmed by the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 when a decision was made to deploy the Eulex mission, that the Serbian court was absolutely without jurisdiction. Could any criminal proceedings have been conducted in the Serbian court? Absolutely not. Was there a police assistance? Absolutely not. Could any executive procedure have been conducted? Absolutely not. There was an exclusive responsibility to conduct some out-of-party procedures, to make decisions that no one could implement. What did this government do? The government has allowed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to have Serbian judges, to have Serbian prosecutors, to judge Serbian judges and prosecutors, to be tried in Serbian, to have decisions that could be implemented, which could exercise one's right, and plus every judge and prosecutor has been provided with pensions. You didn't mean that in 2009 when you implemented a catastrophic reform of the judiciary, when you were all these judges, in 2009 a decision was made, and it began to apply on 1 January 2010. So, you can only thank your policy on abolishing Serbian courts in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43893	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43894	You know, we are going to the UN Security Council because it is important, because Resolution 1244 has not been abolished and we are defending it, and we will go to every forum, as important or irrelevant as it is, to defend Serbia's interests and to defend the interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. But what you've done is you've just ruled out or reduced the influence of the UN Security Council on everyday life in Kosovo and Metohija by introducing Eulex, while reducing the influence of Umnik, disposing of Umnik police, and introducing EULEX police, introducing fully countries that have recognised Kosovo. It couldn't have happened without the Serbs. That's what you did. From 2012 until today, we are just trying to correct the damage and start to change something, to preserve the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, and we can also pretend like you, we don't admit anything, and then when we're pressured by someone from Europe, we recognize everything, accept everything and, of course, sell to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So you introduced EULEX, so Eulex entered, so you introduced border management, not administrative lines, borders. So you agreed to introduce the RKS tables, for those who do not know that means the Republic of Kosovo tables, to us unacceptable. That's how you agreed to abolishing the Serbian judiciary. Then you abolished the Serbian judiciary, and we could say this -- never mind, no, we don't admit anything, let the Albanians judge them, that's enough, let the Albanians judge them, okay. Let them judge as they please and wherever they want. And then, as you know, by force and violence that no longer exists to prevent, because there is no armed force of our country there, when they are taken to some prison, they are arrested for any reason, we will say – may the Albanians judge them, we do not admit it. We care about the lives of each of these people. You must understand that there are people living in conditions that are not the conditions of an orderly state of Serbia, but live in conditions where you have more robbery and more violence in state institutions than on the street only if you are a Serb. Well, is it better to have a Serbian judge in Mitrovica than to have an Albanian? Is it better to have a Serb in the police, whatever it says than an Albanian? Ask Serbs in the south what it's like to have very few Serbian police officers in the KPS, and how much safer Serbs are in the north because they have them and what's important is that they have them. You drew a border between Serbs and Serbs, and we negotiated to build a fund for the north of Kosovo and Metohija from those customs that you introduced. So Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in northern Kosovo and Metohija now have millions of euros to decide where they will spend. We didn't let it go beyond their budget, but it had to go through the bank in order not to collapse status neutrality in any way. And then to their horror, we were able to draw the borders of the north for the first time, because what the North Development Fund is about is the first time it's drawn where it's north. By then, neither the international community, nor the Albanians that we're not talking, had even recognised the existence of the north as a specific region, but wanted to drown us in Albanian regions, so that on the basis of that, based on the account of the number of inhabitants, it was decided on the basis of the number. (The People's Messenger, Slavisa Ristic, throws away. ) You can throw free, you can throw louder, you can push harder. You were supposed to throw someone else away. You should have thrown that away to those who let the Mazreka brothers go. You should have thrown that away to those who released two and a half thousand Albanian terrorists and passed the Amnesty Act for them. In 2004, you were supposed to throw that state that didn't do anything. You were supposed to throw in 2004, sir, to say – where is the army, where is the police, where is the Serbian state when Kosovo burns? You were supposed to throw, you weren't throwing. Well, since you didn't throw away then, shut up now. Now shut up, 'cause that's when you kept your mouth shut. You were supposed to throw in 2008, tell that state, tell it to that state -- why don't you react, what do you do, what do you keep quiet? Since you didn't throw away at me then, now you've got to keep your mouth shut, 'cause you don't have the right to talk right now. In 2004, when they were silent, why didn't you speak in 2005 when you handed over General Lazarevic, and you were in power and you were all in power together? And that was your response to the pogrom in 2004, hand over General Lazarevic. That's when you were supposed to throw, and you shouldn't throw now. If any politics have failed, then that's the policy, that's the policy. We're pretending not to admit it, and all we're asking is for the election to go through, so you admit what you want, and we're going to help. So that's the policy and that's the policy that's been broken down, that's when you should've thrown away, I'm sorry that you didn't, and here you have the minister from the Kosovo government, the minister of agriculture, so you should've thrown it at him then. When you were silent back then, then you can keep your mouth shut right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43896	Ministers, obviously you're confused. I ask and you answer, not the other way around. You haven't answered any of the eight questions I've asked, except you've been commenting on what I've been saying. Those terrorists who killed cops and soldiers, gentlemen ministers, well, they're sitting with you in Kosovo's power. This Ramush Haradinaj is the prime minister you supported, your Serb list. You're sitting down with him, who are you accusing of now? It's someone else's fault again, isn't it? And because you keep running away from responsibility, for six years you've been ruling, six years you've been looking for the culprits in someone else for all your failures, because by signing the Brussels Agreement, you've given all the authorities to Albanians and you've been on the verge of issuing the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because today, Serbian citizens are in charge of 10 billion euros new since you've been in power, they have the lowest wages in the region, the lowest pensions, we have the lowest growth in the world, we have the lowest GDP growth in Europe, and you're looking for others. You know how, Mr. Minister? If you're doing some work, and you've been in power for six years, you're not looking for an alibi in another one, but if you don't know, back off. Take your resignations, step aside, give someone else who won't accuse his people, who won't charge the Serbian Church, who won't accuse anyone who ruled six years before that he was guilty of everything they did. There is a word of responsibility in Serbia and in the people, which clearly represents nothing for you. Stop lying brutally to the citizens of Serbia. You will be enrolled in the court of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43897	Thank you. I give my word to Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I agree with one word said by Mr. Alexic, which is responsibility. I'll read you the U.S. Embassy's dispatch from December 17th, 2007. Democratic Party official President Tadic Vuk Jeremic has insisted that the United States delay Kosovo's recognition until the end of Tadic's re-election to ensure Serbia's democratic victory and maintain Serbia's path to European integration. Furthermore, the US Embassy said in the dispatch published by Wikiliks -- Borislav Stefanovic, who is close to President Tadic, that the president's re-election is critical for achieving the DS goal, establishing a strong link between the US and Serbia. In that sense, Stefanovic persistently asked the United States, a beacon of freedom, as he said, to postpone Kosovo's recognition until the end of the second round of presidential elections. The delay in Kosovo's declaration would allow Tadic to avoid defeat, according to Stefanovic in the Wikiliksa depepa. I ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, if he comes back, is this a crime called high treason? As for the border crossings in Brnjak and Jarinj, July 26th at 23.17pm, "Serbia tonight at the blockades at Brnjak crossings, the situation in Zubin Potok municipality tonight is calm but tense, the President of Zubin Potok Slavisa Ristic said tonight that people are upset about the latest developments in the municipality and will remain at the crossings until the morning, but also in the coming days," 26 July at 23.17h. If he's lying to Slavish, they don't lie to the papers. The next question is for the Secretary of Defense. What will Serbia do in further arms, because there is a saying that it is insane to say – but only a well-armed and armed army can preserve peace, given some external forces that want to divide the Balkan states and the Balkan peoples? I think we're only well armed and equipped to maintain peace. And with that, as far as he can, he can tell us something about modernising the military and good equipment. A question for the Minister of Health – how many children have been treated in the last five years on the cost of RFO, how many in the last years from the budget fund, and does he know that someone from those two funds has been rejected and has submitted an orderly request? A question for the environment minister – what will they do to take care of the environment, remove wild dumps? A question for the Minister of Police and Justice – what will he do... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43899	Thank you. Here you go, it's Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43900	Here, what's the question from my area. The state of Serbia has taken the view of military neutrality, as you know, by the decision of this high home. Military neutrality says you have to be armed, capable and ready to respond to every threat, not waiting for help from anyone else, because there won't be any help. Military neutrality is the most honorable choice, but also the most difficult choice. Military neutrality allows you to make your own decisions, but also to arm yourself and prepare for the worst. Serbia's army must be so strong, so armed that it is a factor in deterring every potential aggressor. We do not arm ourselves to attack anyone, that they may take from anyone earth, water, air, but only that our land, water, and air may remain our own, and that we may decide in our own land how we shall live. By 2012, the Serbian Army had been destroyed in a plan. Her weaponry, her chamber, her property, all that one army does was planfully destroyed. At that time, we had the president of the Republic, the commander-in-chief, who said - what the army would do to us, we will never fight again. To say that in the Balkans is at least irresponsible. We, thanks to the policy of the time of the Government of Alexander Vukic, who has provided enough money to buy weapons, will ensure that next year, after we sign the agreement with Belarus on the purchase of four more "mig", we have 14 "mig 29", with corresponding improvements and modernisations, so that we can say that we will have 14 "migs" in the generation "four plus", which we never had and which is something that no one in the region has. Next year we also expect three Mi-17 helicopters to arrive in Serbia, we already have two brand-new, four Mi-35 fighter helicopters, which are world-class helicopters, there are no better ones in the world, and that's something we've never had. We had a lot earlier in the '90s, we had two Mi-24s, which are now completely unusable and, of course, completely devastated because after 2000 they put them on ice and left them to rot, and they could work for a long, long time and protect our country's sky, but the army shouldn't have, so they were planning to destroy it. So, four Mi-35, helicopters that will really significantly improve our army's ability. Also, five more H-145 helicopters will arrive, I'm only talking about the military, but there are police who will also receive four more H-145 helicopters, which are the most modern and best helicopters in their class. The helicopters will be armed, so they will be able to respond to any threat. In the first quarter of next year, 30 tanks, modernised, will arrive in Serbia under a military-technical co-operation agreement with the Russian Federation. 30 BRDMs will arrive, also remounted and modernised. I expect that by the end of the year our army will be armed with the latest hoodies Nora, as well as the latest armored vehicle "Lazar", "Lazar 3". We bought the most modern rifles, we'll buy more of the most modern rifles of the Belgian manufacturer Herstal. The Serbian army is progressing. We've never had such high levels of material reserves, war reserves, hull reserves. We've never had every member of the army, an active member of the army, have two uniforms of M10 and another working M93, to have a new set of boots. It's never been so much invested in military infrastructure that it's from the hangars to the housing of the technique to the barracks of our soldiers. Our salaries are increasing in absolute and relative terms, especially after the increase we expect, they were never higher. Serbia's army is not just weapons, Serbia's army are people, Serbia's army are its soldiers, its officers, its officers, its civilian faces. The level of training rises to a far higher level than it was before 2012 when something was done that cannot be explained. A professional army introduced, and a practically abolished reserve. Everywhere in the world, where you've introduced a professional army as a small, capable, well-trained and equipped, you've stepped up the reserve because the professional army serves to withstand the first strike, and then someone comes. Now, that someone was simply abolished after 2000. And that's what we're going to do now. We also face challenges that have never existed before, so within the general staff, we have formed the Cyber Warring Administration, we need to know that there are threats that we have not yet known about, and we couldn't count on. Now we're doing it. Serbia's army is growing significantly and significantly. What is most important to me is that it is improving and raising the standard of each member of the Serbian Army. To work harder than we've ever done in military school, in the sense that military school is really military, that we're preparing officers, not defense management. You know, by the time an officer finishes his military academy, he's been writing to a manager in defense, not an officer, he's a defense manager. Well, we're returning military to the Military Academy and military to military high school. We introduce and return, very important, secondary military schools, to educate children to be both radar technicians and air technicians. We return, therefore, everything that is planned and deliberately destroyed and destroyed, now we return, and therefore we can be pleased to say that the Serbian Army is becoming not only the strongest in the region, but most importantly, it becomes a guarantee of peace and our security, our freedom. As it headed north Kosovo, with the already known "Golden Sabre" action with the idea of falling north of Kosovo, the military and police had such an answer that the action stopped and immediately gave up. So when you ask us what we've done, we've done it so there's no bloodshed and there's no attack on northern Kosovo and Metohija, and we've done it so that everyone knows that "The Storm", "The Martian Pogrom" will never happen again, and that's possible because you have Alexander Vukic, who fought to make our country rich enough and able to pay for all of this. We bought more rockets in a year than our predecessors from 2000 to 2012, and about total weapons not to tell you both capital and every other. That's what we did. Serbia's army is able to preserve our way of life, to preserve the freedom of every Serbian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43901	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43902	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I will tell you the specific figures on the question you asked, which is 2014 from the RFZO and the budget fund that did not exist until then, so it was formed at the end of 2014 that 1975 children, from 2014 until now in 2018, have not passed, and for a period of four years, 509 young people have been sent in total from 2008 to 2012. So four times as many kids went to treatment and the vast majority was cured and paid it two and a half times as it was in the previous period. We didn't think that we should publish this on all the bells and that those children and their parents who were cured were exposed to this media pressure and talk about it and say that we went to spare them, and simply everyone who went through it knows how much trouble it is, what it is. It's simple, going to the citizens to feel for themselves. It's not just what we were doing, what the kids went there, I have to tell you, and right now to thank you, right now in Kragujevac, Professor Ventura of Spain, is operating on our little ones with the greatest vertebral deformities ever worked in just one or two centers in the world. So he came here, he operated on our little ones, they don't pay for their families, they don't pay for anything. All the states organized and all the state pays. They don't pay, they didn't go abroad. At the same time, one of the best surgeons in London is operating on our patients with colon carcinoma, without opening their stomachs laparoscopically. He's training our surgeons, our 40 surgeons, and they're doing it in Serbia's centres. The Russian professor operates on Tirsh's children and conveys knowledge to our experts that they can do it here. So that's what happens at this point while we sit and talk. Once again, I want to thank all of them for doing their job, not chasing, not abusing those children. It is to the honor of those who abuse sick children, their paintings, who put them on the cover for some of their promotions and for the already known interests for which they are used. We'll keep doing this, invest a lot more, do a lot better, but we won't abuse it and turn it into a policy. The profession will run its business and that the best it can and that the best it can do, we have extraordinary experts, we have people who know, who are appreciated in both our and the world, they will do their job, determine where they will be treated and who will be treated. God forbid actors, singers, politicians, the pharmaceutical mob and others determine where they'll be treated. Don't let that happen at any cost. Those who abuse it will fall to the bottom, it always comes back. So please pay particular attention. They've exhausted everything, they've got nothing left to do. No ideas, no results, no nothing. They relied on the abuse of sick children. Bottom of the line. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43903	The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43904	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, just a few sentences, therefore, Serbia is seriously intent on bringing its environment in order, and the issue of wild dumps is one of the burning daily watching Serbia. I remind you that Serbia tried several years ago to resolve the issue of wild dumps, and that it was not successful because, in my opinion, 26 regional dumps were not actually put into operation. Then, when we put in place a regional dump, conditions will be created to delay anything that is delayed in Serbia, properly and in accordance with the regulations. At this point, we have information that there are between four and five thousand wild dumps in Serbia, which is a huge number. I'm not ready to enter the adventure of spending money right now without knowing exactly where it is. Once we determine exactly where they are, and here we need serious help from local self-government, we will approach this business. I assure you that in a few years Serbia will look completely different than today. In the end, let me say that the question of wild dumps and illegal dumps is actually a matter of local self-government, but in my opinion, local self-governments don't have enough capacity to solve it themselves, whether they don't have any money, whether they don't have other potentials. In the end, let me say that there are light examples in Serbia. Let's say those interested in solving the issue of illegal dumps in their municipalities go to the Gerdap National Park and they'll see how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43905	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43906	Ladies and gentlemen, the next question is for the Minister of Energy, as well as for the Minister of Environment – what does Obrenovac-Belgrade heat line think about, will this reduce pollution and affect more efficient heating in Belgrade and cheaper? The next question is for the Minister of Energy – what is Serbia doing to increase the percentage of renewable energy, especially from agriculture, from biomass and green mass? Furthermore, the question for Minister Sarčević – how is dual education conducted, what is the responsibility of the principal in primary and secondary schools, how does he feel about peer violence, how to prevent it in primary and secondary schools? It's a question for the minister of police. In fact, six months ago, from a political organization called Dvere, material arrived in my office about the abuse of funds for an election campaign. I'm sorry the finance minister isn't present. It is a sum of about 30 million dinars, which has been paid mainly for the presidential campaign and something for regular funding. The funds, according to the documentation I have and which is addressed to me, are being misused within that organisation. You certainly know that the funds that are not used in the election campaign, the electoral list or the electoral candidate, or the promoter, are obliged to return those funds to the state budget. It was not done but the money, which Dvori's political organisation won for the presidential campaign, was pumped into the entrepreneurial actions of their members, mostly candidates from previous elections from the Dvora election list of some council members. It's all so pumped up into entrepreneurship stores, I've got a scheme here, like, 30 million dinars. It's mostly fictitious business. The further verification found that the funds were raised in cash and probably returned to the people who run Dveri. This is about crimes, and I'm sorry that the finance minister isn't present, since these jilas honest men are certainly too honorable and more frequent to be questioned. So, it's about tax evasion, it's about money laundering, and so I think, and I've also informed the Department of Criminal Police, which was my responsibility, and I've informed the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime, which was also my obligation, which is why I'm asking the Minister of Justice, and later on, what is going to be done to prosecute this financial malversion, or to investigate it in a fair way, because I don't think there's any way that a particular crime can be broken down by politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43907	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43908	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for this series of questions. I'd go in order. The Obrenovac-Belgrade heat pipeline, in my deep confidence, is one of the best energy projects that is developing in Serbia right now. The construction project is primarily 26 km long from the "Nikola Tesla A" thermal power plant to the Novobegrada Elektra, which at the moment is a power plant for heating huge numbers of Belgrade large areas and residential and business spaces, which is designed to ensure that part of the energy produced at the “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant is delivered to a power plant in New Belgrade and that this energy is used to heat up new Belgrade's apartments, but given that it has crossed the main city's municipalities from the Novo Belgrade Toplana. It's a $227 million project. The project and a commercial contract for the development of the project were signed with China's Tchaina Power. At this point, it is working to complete the financial structure for financing the project and what is the key reason why I characterise it as one of the best projects is primarily a very fast period of return and investment, taking into account that it guarantees that a minimum, at the current level of price, 43m euros will be savings on the use of gas at an annual level, so it is a project that is returning in a few years, four to six years and as such it has received all the support from the government of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade to develop further. Of course, in addition to this economically really strong performance, there are two other important elements. It affects Serbia's energy security on one hand, because we now have the energy gas, which is the energy we use at the moment, we are substituting it with our domestic energy. Col. Trivan won't be happy because it's coal, but objectively this coal burns down in TE "Nikola Tesla" and will in itself create no further pollution in Obrenovac. But, on the other hand, Belgrade citizens, including counterpart Trivan among them, will be happy because in Belgrade's power plants, a new Belgrade power plant will reduce the level of pollution, so that cumulatively we have a significant environmental impact, we have a significant financial effect and we have what is not calculated in Serbia at this time and does not turn into money, but in the modern world it is... I repeat, it may be number one in energy, which is energy security and security that is becoming far greater. I'm happy this project is developing. I have been fighting for the project with my colleagues for more than twenty years, considering that the project began to develop since 1997. Unfortunately, due to the lack of financial resources, he did not go in the dynamics that had been planned, but even more unfortunately in 2004, the genius decisions of the city government at the time did not only stop the project, but all the work was taken out and buried, so now we have to start over. When it comes to renewable sources, this government has made real capital results and shifts on this plan. I must be proud to point out that in the last few years, it has been during this and the previous government, and in a period of, for example, a period of time. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Some 150 megawatts of new electricity generation capacity in Serbia have been installed on the network so far and are all from renewable sources. I think it is something that deserves the support of this Parliament and something to continue with. What I can confirm both in front of parliament and in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we will achieve great results in this year and by the end of the year. By the end of the year, we're planning past these 150 megawatts, already online, another 200 megawatts. First of all, it's about wind energy, first of all it's about Vojvodina, first of all it's about South Banat, and with that trend we continue in 2019, when we expect an additional 200 megawatt. This brings us, and I expect in 2016 that in Serbia we will have more than 600 megawatts from renewable sources, in which I do not count large hydropower plants on the Danube and Drina, which are already in our energy system. I agree with counterpart Risticevic that biomass is one of Serbia's greatest development potentials, given the fact that Serbia is rich in forests, but above all, agricultural production. Approximately when we look at Serbia's overall potential, when it comes to renewable sources, about 60% of that potential is precisely biomass. We give strong incentive measures to develop projects from both biogas and biomass, although essentially all of this biomass is just different technologies. And, on today, colleague Risticevic, we have 27.5 megawatts of biogas and biomass production capacity on the network and we continue to do so. They're not on the quota. There's no limit to that. It's something we want to keep going on and on about, to raise the strength of these installed capacities. I want to invite people in Serbia, primarily agricultural producers in Vojvodina, to take advantage of this strong potential and to round up their green economy system, from the production of agricultural products, through livestock and all that remains to be returned to energy, which, I think, will have an extremely good impact on their budgets as well. That's what this government's policy is. I also thank the President of the Republic for having strong support to develop these projects and such a policy in the field of energy, and we will no doubt continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43909	Thank you, Minister Antic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43910	Thank you, Chairman. These were actually three questions. I'd like to start with the first one, which is related to dual education in Serbia. Not so long ago in this house, we adopted the Dual Education Act, and in some ways I can recommend that the initial results are more than good, that in the first year we had 8% of the students in the framework of secondary vocational education that was defined for this profile and model, and that we had 19 educational profiles. With all the denial that some of the profiles were artificially indisposed, they showed enrolment in high schools that occurred this fall and last fall. Meanwhile, in collaboration with the Institute for Improving Education and Education, 13 more dual profiles were created, and this time we put the focus on education in the field of tourism and catering, as the growing branches of Serbia's economy, especially for the IT sector, dual models that could immediately start working, mechatronists, then all construction models and it proved to be a successful move. In many places there were two or three students, even for the locksmith, where there was a story that there were no more than two, I remember that discussion, at the sixth of three places 980 students appeared. Not to say that what Minister Vulin just said, that co-operation between the Ministry of Defence and education in the domain of the Air Force Academy is a full hit. For those interests of air model mechanics and everything else, it appears 10 in one place. So these are children who have a secure job, who have a secure income and whose families are very pleased that this can happen to them. We've paid particular attention to the environments that have a lot of the Roma population, because because because of the scarcity of children after primary school or during primary school, we realized that the dual models of education are very noble to have this happen in a positive way. What we have done in our own way, we have made our national model of dual education, comparing it, of course, with developed countries, but also with no intention, and the inability to prescribe neither from Switzerland nor Germany nor Austria, but with great praise, particularly the Government of Switzerland, their mentorship in secondary vocational education is a complete success. We in the second year of applying these models with 31 profiles came up with really fantastic data. It is 83 high schools, it is 1,380 companies, and the number is constantly changing, which have entered the dual and more than 3,000 that have declared their intention to enter the story. So, 23% of the students are in secondary vocational education essentially in the dual, which nobody expected, and that's where we got all the praises from the EU, but also from us dear partner countries who came up with this and showed that it's a great story. In any case, this also has its own educational connotations, because students who go to the company to have practice have a very good opportunity to, with education, along with work, with the presence of mentors, instructors in the company, which is unique to us, just so that children are not exposed to some torture and any unpleasant model, and these are our teachers of professional practice, which in case we didn't lose our job. So we found a double benefit for that same model. And I think we'll keep it up by talking to people from local self-government, talking to the chamber, regional chambers, companies. So there was never any closer co-operation but between the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Chambers of Commerce, Employers' Associations, and they really are our partners. In the context of higher education, and on the Agency's report, i.e. the Commission on accreditation and quality checking of the European model, that is ENKVA, we have introduced representatives of the economy into bodies such as the High, National Council, such as the Commission on Accreditation, i.e. the National Accreditation Body, and that, I can tell you, "Nordeus", Microsoft, "Gorenje", "Alko Bank" and many other prominent employers in Serbia are very happy to accept their participation. We're currently working, and we'll probably be in February, if everything works out, in this home with the Dual Education Act at high school. The reforms we do with vocational education, the making of academias, the reduction of small groups, bad models and programs, we essentially associate the more successful part of these stories with the university, but we also do territorially in a better way by having them very attached to the economy. The total banking sector, the total IT sector, the total engineering sector, all technology colleges, traffic, are very interested. Employers who come to offer scholarships on the final years of machines, ETFs, FONs are too late, they have to land much earlier. This has invited us to start by doing a law on changing student standards, which will introduce more and more recent and quality scholarship models. And, dual on high is kind of a good scholarship. This time we don't have that otium that's about minors, I'm talking about adult citizens, who otherwise, if they don't get a chance at good companies, in development centers, they'd probably look somewhere out there. I think that this is how we stop this line of brain and young people going, and we give them the chance that they can use it from the first year of learning and study in their country for good, and we give a signal to good companies to pay them to come to Serbia, just for not cheap labour, but for the difference between the cost of living between one Switzerland and Serbia, between one Germany and Serbia. Who doesn't know what I'm talking about, it's enough to go to Switzerland once and see what the bill is for housing, for food and all that other stuff. And with that money, our young people can really have a high standard. So, I'm going to report to every next opportunity that's new models and profiles and where we're at when the duel's high. The second topic is the role of school director. The amendments to the laws, which we also brought here, systemically, on the foundations of the education and education system, have led to the introduction of the school director's licensing. So that's where she's shown us the basics for now, and that external evaluation. We also had a meeting today with OECD people, from the European Commission, where this external evaluation served as a basis for seeing the system and its quality. Of course, I'm not happy, and that's something we knew, that's almost 40% in an external unit or two, which lets us know that many things in the system aren't in place. But, allow me, I will call upon the famous examples of Finland and all the countries that followed those models. Two years minimum takes the process of preparing for reforms and we have just spent two years. But with us, many parts of the reform are already very visible, in the domain of information literacy of primary schools, high school, in the domain of digitalisation of the system and reform curricula that have started since this school year. The director has to be extremely trained and we've started training those who have the highest grades and they'll get the first licenses, and the condition under the law that someone could be the director is that they have a license. Any violation of the law, any non-response to violence against any other model or conflict with the Anti-Corruption Agency is a license and cannot be a director. So these things will be simplified and no matter who suggested them and what they did there are strictly laid down, and they are given wind in the back by having a more serious salary in the new matrix model. For that salary, they must make a serious effort and make it, and I think we're on our way. What is constantly a hot topic and that is violence that is present, of course, across Europe, and in all schools of Serbia. I'm obliged to say that we had extremely few bad, difficult cases at the beginning of the school year. We're recording Zemun and the King, and that's what we're intensively working on, and the cases are situational. There's still a problem that some schools, or their managements, don't respond in time, don't respond adequately, but if they don't report within 24 hours, there's an automatic shift of directors, and then there's an investigation of what was done, how was it done, etc. This year we have strengthened the system by including 155 psychologists from some period as it was gone for some reason, and we have given the chance that in schools someone is doing better, because the psychologist knows what the structure of the family, the pedagogogog, they're working with social work centres, they can get into these fineses. In addition to the fact that we are now designing a new relationship between schools and families, we are designing a new law and so on. The community councils of parents, the parents, we've already passed it here by law, made it more responsible. I took the example of Panchev's 86 parents paid a serious penalty for justifying the absences, but he also has a serious right to participate in a quality team, to say whether that teacher is late for class or anything else he doesn't have to do. He doesn't have to evaluate his expertise, he has someone to do it. These are short-term measures and that is what exists, SOS phone, which there are quality teams in the Ministry, which if not responded by a teacher, a class elder, a psychologist or a director, a parent must urgently report to the school administration, an inspection or to me personally. We really think that we deliberately removed everything from the carpet to the surface to know what the size of that problem was. So at one point, it seemed like there was more to it. We also follow the statistics, we don't think one case is necessary, we can't get a Nobel Prize which we're going to do system where it's not there, but we're going to have it in full control and for the benefit of the children. And always a student is a fundamental interest in the story. The long-term measures, the other day we mentioned here, I had a question from my colleagues about, I think my colleague Balsha just asked me, and that's about the education strategy that's been in place since 2020, and this year, I'm proud to say, we're starting a pilot project with 100 schools all day and one-day work. Unfortunately, that's what the old strategy wrote, no one worked on the action plan. We started an act on the network and the story stopped, because the place kind of stretches, the deadline is March 19th next year. We'll move intensively after we talk about wages and trade unions on the subject. The goal is for all schools, meaning with this, conditionally speaking, extra teachers, due to depopulation, to get a new resource, and that these people don't care about their work, and that we extend the student's stay to 16-16.30 hours, where they get new competences, new content and sport and information and everything. The percentage of violence is completely reduced, this was done by Germany and many other countries, which is a process that will be done here by 2030. But I think in the budget, when we're here in the Assembly, we're going to present what we think we need to enlighten to speed up the process. I think in the first phase it takes the funds to get the big schools outside to have the gauges, to redecorate inside to get that space, which is the most expensive part of the story. When we do, we have programs. So, so I think it's the most important item in the long term and that fight that I think will give us results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43911	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43912	Let's just briefly look back on the subject of peer violence. First of all, given that there is indeed a topic that deserves the attention of the entire society and that there is co-operation with the Ministry of Education on the initiative of the Ministry of Education. We started a project in schools, in all primary schools where in the first, fourth and sixth grade classes we have lectures held by police officers in class classes together with class elders, where children in this age among other things, in addition to topics that talk about traffic safety, drug protection, alcoholism, crime, high-tech crime, police knowledge and a special set of lectures concerning dating, emergency situations, fires, floods and everything else, a special accent was placed on violence. I had the opportunity to go to more schools and attend those classes and see how kids understood it because it was important for us kids to accept it not to be one boring, sterile lecture that no one would listen to, to fill some form, but to realize that violence didn't have to be just physical, that it could be verbal, it could be economic, it could be different. What does that mean in terms of peer violence, what problems arise, and what can all be caused by one of their friends, some other child growing up next to them? These are strategic projects. These are projects that will produce results in years ahead of us, because we expect as we now have a trend of falling such a type of peer violence, especially juvenile crime, but we cannot be satisfied as long as there is one child who has been harassed at school. That's why we always encourage parents, encourage children to turn to school cops, turn to teachers, school principals, turn to their parents and talk and point to the existence of problems. The institutions of the state must react. There is no institution that can say, that we can say – if great, the school is obliged to raise our child or will do so by a police officer. No, I don't. We must always keep in mind, and every parent must know, the obligation of parents and all of us who are parents is to raise our children, to have our children as our concern, to take care of it and of course work and support institutions not to go deaf about any abuse or violation of rights. With the system support where we have the ability to talk to these children, that teachers, parents are involved, we want to teach them what the problem is in the field of the Internet, what are the dangers to our children. These are for many people new things. Sometimes parents aren't able to explain it to their children because they're not aware of it themselves. We want to work proactively with the Ministry of Education on this and the state's systematic approach to this. This isn't ad hoc. This is serious, systemically, with enough people dressed and trained, who work together with teachers to protect our children better, to make our children safer, and that is our job. Our job is to protect our children from any evil that can happen to them. Also, as far as your second question is concerned, the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade has received criminal charges with your allegations regarding the Dvori political party. The police have been asked to collect intelligence and the criminal police are committing, I say, checks on allegations found in a criminal report. The prosecution will notify the public when the allegations are checked when the investigation phase is completed, it will inform the public whether the allegations are established or not and what the result of the investigation is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43913	Thank you. Do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43914	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I hope you share the impression that some of our colleagues have simply been vaccinated, so to speak, out of shame. I suggest to you and to us, I think that some of the times come when these outsiders who threaten us use these insides that once stole us, that we have to be prepared for those times, that regardless of the spits, the harangs that are being led, the threats that we get every day, some of them I get, that we have to be resistant to that kind of insolence, to call it that, because I can't call it otherwise, to be resilient, to be unique. I, as a farmer, and farmers are the acquirers of this country, it certainly means the entrance itself, I want what a good host wants for his home, I want and I believe all of you, not to say rude exceptions, I believe that you all want what a good host wants for his home, that you want it to Serbia, that you want Serbia to compete not only in the Balkans, but with some Western European countries for the quality of life and the standard of its citizens. That's why we have to be brave. The storm makes the oaks grow deeper and deeper, it's a saying and I hope that all together, we who want to do good to Serbia, will do it. I call on others to be deficient, creative, and not external, and try to pull that plow along with us in one direction. If we all drag him to different sides, then we won't move from place. I don't defend power, I don't defend the state, I defend all those who raise the state. It's not an honor to rule the country, it's an honor to raise the state. I defend that state and all those who wish it well from those who are as moles worthy of undermining their country and all do to work against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43915	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43916	Thank you, President. In the first block, I have two or more questions for two ministers, and I would ask them to answer only questions, since it is a practice, we have followed the meeting so far, that even the unquestioned ministers answer questions, to answer unsolicited questions, not to answer questions. Mine are very specific. First, I refer to Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Yesterday, it was announced that Minister Aleksandar Vulin was fined by the court for refusing, or within the legal deadline, to answer questions related to the incident at the corner of Bircaninov Street and Svetozar Markovic during the maintenance of a proud parade in Belgrade in 2014, in which the incident, known as the Vukic and Mali Anti-Gendarm brothers, i.e. the prosecution now in official form against the gendarmes, with the exception of Andrej Vukic and Predrag Malo, was also involved. The information was requested by the Center for Research, Transparency and Responsibility of the CRTA and requested access to copies of documents relating to this incident, since then Resolute Minister Vulin did not respect it, so he did not respect the law in the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member, the Criminal Court punished him yesterday, because it was published. The reasons for refusing to comply with the requirements relate to the confidentiality of the requested information, but the Criminal Court has assessed that the requested information is not marked at all by the degree of secrecy – as the VBA stated, it is added in a public publication. Since Minister Vulin does not respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and did not respond by law to questions and demands, so I am not asking him this time, but Minister Stefanovic. Of your interest, Minister, is this how you understand Chapter 24, do you understand the transparency of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its organs? Why is that justice selective? Why is it party priority or not, and it's especially important to me, since this trial is repeated? So, in the case of the Wolf and Mali brothers. It's important, too, because it's so-called. a key witness in this trial recognised as a certain Gjorge Gacanovic, who is representing himself as a spokesman for one of the police unions. It was put in place by a party counterpart from the Serb list Aleksandar Djordjevic, also employed by the MUP, but on the other hand, it is said that the key witness Gacanovic is not employed by the ministry. I wonder how someone who isn't employed by the Ministry can be a spokesman for the police union and thus defends the rights of employees in the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43917	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43918	First of all, let me explain this union thing to you. Trade unions exist in a form that minors are equal to the NGO sector. So in the MUP works at this point 30 unions. Some have six or seven members, some have 12, 13, 14 thousand members, and on that basis they are determined, of course, representativeness. There are two representative unions in the MUP. Different people who join the police unions appear in public, which allows them to act without having anything to do with the MUP or the police. Their views do not maintain either the MUP's opinion or the police's opinion, but as with other people in the NGO sector, the ministry has nothing to object to or say whether they said something or didn't. We can only answer to deny it if we feel it's worth being denied. After all, with 30 such organizations you can't always lead the controversy, you'd just spend a lot of time on it. So, as far as union members are concerned, they don't have to be ministry workers. They can be citizens who join. That's what's going on. We also have a number of abuses that one part of the union does with the release of so-called. The legitimateization of trade unions that are somewhat reminded of police legislation. They don't have all the markings, but they also remind someone who doesn't look at speed clearly that it doesn't say "MUP" or "police" can be led astray. Many of them have been prosecuted, many have been arrested for it, taken away, but it's been happening and it's been going back 10, 15, 20 years. These are cases that we can detect when a criminal or criminal offence is committed and that that legislation has been used. In any case, as far as they're concerned, that ministry can't do anything, like nothing can do with any other NGO. It is their right to perform, they have the right to public opinion, whatever their position is. As for this, I must say I've always been against it, especially when it comes to processes that are under way. Whenever a trial takes place, a huge number of questions have always been asked in consultations with prosecutors often happen that just for political reasons, certain actors are looking for information that they would like to publish publicly, which can affect the process itself, wanting to influence witnesses, wanting to put pressure on them, publicly declaring their names, exposing them to persecution, pressure, public delicacy, etc., perhaps by trying to influence them to change their opinion, and in the modern world, in modern civilization, it simply doesn't work. So, pressure on witnesses, pressure on prosecutors, pressure on this, pressure on that one. It just doesn't work. They're looking for their addresses, home addresses, phones, who are police operatives who've been listening to that and that. I'm sorry, what's that gonna do to someone? What are the motives of someone knowing what kind of operative was being questioned, his name and last name? That's what the judge knows. That's what the D.A. knows. They're in the process. He knows a defense attorney. They have the right, they have the file in court. What's with the paper, the research center? Why do they want to publish the names of these people unless they want to influence the political process itself that is under way? This isn't over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's You have the right to know a lot more after a judicial verdict. Procedure completed, completed. In progress, simply, that doesn't sound normal at all. Of course, not all public authorities in various independent institutions are truly apolitical and they are actively concerned with politics and make decisions, because the law has made it possible for them to make decisions that are not in line with the society's greatest interest, but in line with the interest of their political options. I'm not saying they don't have the right to do it legally, but it's not in the interest of the procedure. After all, why don't they let the trial be over? After all, in this particular case, the verdict that was and which was annulled was the brother of President Vukic. That's what the court decided, no one objected, no one interfered. The court has made such a decision, okay, it makes a decision, the trial is repeated. Whether it's one way or another, whether someone likes it or not, that's what the court decided. As far as Alexander Vulin is concerned, he is being punished for protecting the right of the VBA, which has estimated that such a thing could endanger the integrity of their system. Their minister sided with soldiers, sided with professionals and people in the military for 20, 30 years. He didn't bring them from somewhere. They're people who work in the Army. They were good in the previous system, I guess they're good now. It's not like they got bad just because Alexander Vulin's the minister. They estimated it so, he stood by his soldiers with honor. I would do so, bear responsibility, punish for it judicially, misdemeanorly, but stand by my men, stand by their assessment, stand with an estimate to achieve something that these people, when the state calls them, do not say – our minister will call us, will sell us at the first moment. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the rule of law. It's simple, he chose to be processed. That's how I'm experiencing this situation and the minister will say more specifically about these details. But I'm absolutely against... (Marinika Tepic of Domination.) )......................................................................................................... The members of the government respond, they have the right to respond, such is the Rules of Procedure. But in this case, I want to tell you that I am absolutely against being exposed until any proceedings are concluded, until there are strong judgments of sensitive details that can affect court proceedings and that same opinion is very often represented by the prosecution precisely because people can't do their job if you reveal the details to them. Let's find out who the suspects are, they have insight into it. They know that, but why would a third person who is not even involved in the process, and not one of the parties to the proceedings, why would someone have sensitive information that doesn't concern him, and they can influence witnesses? Why would they do that? I don't understand. I can't figure out what would be a public interest. What would be the most important interest? To put pressure on her? Let's get their names. Imagine if someone else would do it. There.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43919	Marinika Tepic. Here, ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43920	Thank you, President. If I understand Stefanovic, who is the Deputy Prime Minister, you have explained to us that the rule of law is when the minister violates the law, and it is Minister Vulin by stopping his soldiers. Minister Vulin to stop his soldiers, I don't know if it's an honor and praise for those soldiers or something else, but what's also important is that the decision to participate these soldiers in this incident is allowed by him not by anyone else. So he was protecting himself, not those soldiers. That's the first thing. The second thing, you mentioned leaks of information actually, why would anyone mean this data, why he should have it now, and even you yourself, and very often your government colleagues, Mr. Minister, have mirrored someone who illegally releases sensitive information to the public and before the investigation can begin, and even when it is ongoing and you know very well that it was one of the serious objections in the European Commission reports which, under Chapter 24, is not a long time ago, and I believe that no code has been adopted against leaking information about such sensitive investigative, or investigative actions. And, second question, to return to what I said at the beginning, I refer to Minister Sarčević. I ask him to explain to me why he is not responding, whether by his will or under some pressure, because I really cannot believe that he does not willingly respond to what the criminal convict, an extreme right-wing man who is also acting as president of the Citizens' Association "Serbian Right", is called Misa Vasic, works at this point in Belgrade's mystic schools. It was the first winter in Elena Cetkovic elementary school a few days ago at Vladislav Ribnikar elementary school, and if you didn't know, for the first time, and you know that the public was informed, did you do anything, did you contact the school directors not to do so. We know well that at the establishment of the Serbian right shoulder next to Misa Vacic was SNS Vice President Milenko Jovanovic. I wonder if there have been political pressures on you not to respond to the entrance of extreme right-wing and criminal convicts and to educational and educational institutions affecting their values on children? I think that's inadmissible. I must tell you that on behalf of concerned parents not only in Belgrade, but also in Vojvodina, I react because they are afraid that Mr. Jovanovic will bring Vacic and various of his associates to them both in Kikinda and across Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43921	Time. Thank you. Minister Stefanovic and Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43922	Just a brief review. First of all, Alexander Vulin was not a minister when the event occurred and he was not a defence minister and in any case has no personal interest. These soldiers were not under his command, nor was he as minister authorized to command the army. That's what the President of the Republic, Chief of Staff. In that sense, there is no personal motive. He did not break the law by being told by someone - this is a violation of the law, so he did it. No, he made a decision he thought was right. The court has assessed differently, and he is punished for it. It's the rule of law. He made his decision which he thought was justified, explained, sent to the court, the court said – no, you were punished, you had no right to do so. When we first came to the European Commission, I never gave information that was sensitive and that the prosecution disagreed that they could go on the air. I've never, ever consulted with prosecutors, since I'm very well-respecting the procedure, I'm following how it is and I'm talking about the phase of the procedure that can be talked about, not revealing information that can affect it. When I put out the information -- you know you have two witnesses, they're called that and so on, they're being heard by this inspector and this inspector, they're being done here and there? Never. Suspect M.A. Do that and, for so many years, suspect in it and that, it's being processed, period. That's information. As for the European Commission report, see what they were like in 2010, 2011, 2009, exactly about the rule of law? Scary, so frightening that the European Commission was in shock if there was anything to talk about with this country at all. The European Commission is today asking us to pass a law authorising investigative authorities not to provide information on ongoing investigations. That is what the European Commission is asking of us. You know who's against it? Commissioner for Public Information. He has a different attitude from the European Commission, and the European Commission is standing right here at this point of view that I said. I think it's totally right. It's best that there's no information on the process that's under way, except for that basic, short, no prejudge of anything. That's what the European Commission is asking us to do, and that's what we have to do. I believe it's the only right way. What I have to tell you is that the only thing I'm afraid of is that in Serbia, these people who are threatening women by raping endowed Africans, I'm afraid it's going to be a creepy thing that might happen to us, that people who are prime ministers will come to call creations, that these people who bring in physical violence to people like Rankovic in Ralja, who they've caught by the lapels and almost beat because they dared to ask Gilas a question. If these people ever get a chance to be in power again, I'm afraid we're all gonna get beat up just walking the streets and thinking differently. It's a dangerous thing for our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43923	Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43924	I have to let you and the public know that I heard and responded to this first school case, and I'm going to check the second one. Any citizen who has a child in school can appear as a parent. It can't be challenged by anyone. As a propagating any policy idea, the director is terribly responsible. I'm very recently, I don't know if you followed, maybe a month ago, alerted schools in the Raska area just about the attempts by the Bosniak community around Sulejman Ugljanin to politicise the story that he invited school heads to school and I was very Decedede that no one could do it. He can call these people home at home if they're party members, etc. Since I really respect the a politicity of an institution, that's how I behave. All I have to do is check out the situation for the Fishman School. I really didn't know about that. My position is very clear, and of course no one does any kind of pressure or request on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43925	Thank you. Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43926	Thank you. If you are already calling for the respect of the law, then you must learn to come from yourself and respect the Rules of Procedure which is the highest law in this House that says that any member of the Government can answer whether or not he is directly asked whether you want to see or not, if you have already raised that question, it is my right to answer and I will use it with great satisfaction. I'm sorry that you're denying me the legal right to appeal, so that you're denying me the opportunity to wait for the justice of the verdict, and the verdict is not judicial until I use my right to appeal, but it's none of your business, you'd be shooting us in the streets anyway, as Goran Jesic would say. That's what you'd do. That's why you don't care what I have to say, and you're even less interested in the law in this house or anywhere else. The court didn't even say I was wrong, but that it was too late to answer. That the answer was not given within the legal time limit. It is not even defined whether a norm has been broken, it says – you did not respond within the legal time limit. So, you're saddened by me and you even managed to try to blur it out and not tell the truth about it like the court said. The court doesn't comment at all whether or not I am, but it says -- you're not the reason for punishing me in the first degree, because you didn't respond in time, and now let me tell you what I think about it, because you're already giving me this rare opportunity to say what I think, and I hope you won't lynch me after that, and you won't call me on my murder or something like that, which, unfortunately, happens every day, but it doesn't affect you too much, it's just us, you have the right to threaten to beat us and beat us in the streets, and we need to wait and accept when it comes. So, it is required to know that a copy of a report was submitted shortly after the beating of Andrej Vukic and Mr. Malo's brother. It is required to give the name of the VBA operative who made the report, to be required to be delivered in that report, otherwise it contains the names of witnesses who said what they had to say, what they saw at that time, and you expect me as minister to hand over to you a man who was doing something and then to go out to a court that, to the public, what, to discuss what he did, who the witnesses were, what they witnessed, so it's completely incomprehensible. I'm speaking my mind now, because I'm calling you back to the court not at all discussing what I'm talking about, but he's reached a verdict because he says it's not on time. It's his right and I will, of course, respect him unconditionally as I've respected him my whole life, I'll pay the fine if the court rules after my appeal. It's his right. Unlike you, I respect the laws, I don't call on the lynch, I wouldn't burn this house down again, I wouldn't burn it down on October 5th, as you did. So I respect the law as opposed to five-octobaric arsonists who don't know any different than to break the law and beat people up in the streets. I repeat once again, you will have to learn to obey the law, and respect the law means to end a court dispute, to exercise the right to appeal, to use every legal remedy on a regular or extraordinary basis as the law already provides. So don't automatically classify me where you'd like to classify me, but you'll still have to let the law in this country be respected, as in this country has always respected the law, with the exception of the arson of this honorable home, his robbery that we're marking these days, beating people in front of this home, the burning of the RTS building, and then the savage robbery privatisation that was the logical consequence of everything that happened to us on October 5th. I still don't understand, this is my right to say my opinion, why would I name the VBA operative who put together the proper record? Why would you know the names of witnesses in the general public, what if someone told them to change their minds, that they didn't see what they saw, and that every VBA operative, BIA or any other service should be afraid that someone would look for his name, and then when he puts up reports, he should think that what he's done tomorrow would please someone who's going to look for his name and look for the results of his work to show up in public? I don't know which secret police, who the police are even going out in court with the names of people working in court, with witnesses, with potential witnesses, with everything that makes one case. I don't know if you'd be looking for all this if it wasn't for Andrei Vukic and if it wasn't for him who was beaten up, you might be acting differently, but as I can see, when it comes to the brother of the president who was so brutally beaten, then you're looking for witnesses and those who worked on that case. I don't understand why, I'll always point out that a man who works for his service and his country must be protected. He can't be afraid that tomorrow someone will drag him and his family around the media, that they'll attack him, that he shouldn't be afraid of that witness who spoke with the greatest confidence in that VBA worker, so he can't be afraid of what he said, that one day he'll get hurt. What he saw, he said. What kind of state is this, and how do you think an army is being led to run the Ministry of the Interior, run the BIA, if we're going to throw away the names of our operatives? What are you going to do tomorrow? Are you going to ask the BIA tomorrow to deliver an informant's network, that anyone who works for the BIA or anyone who works for one of our services should report it? Are we gonna look for that? Are you going to ask us one day to open up all those who work for this country and be punished for what they did for this country? You've done this since 2000. That's how you extradited them. That's how you extradited General Lazarevic. Anyone who worked for this country, that's how you rewarded him. Now you'd like to do it again. I will always advocate that a man who works for the state be protected. I'll always stand for it, and if I have to bear the consequences, I will suffer the consequences, but those who worked for the state should be protected. Every VBA worker must know that his country is with him, that his ministry is with him, and he just needs to do his job in accordance with the law and no other way. There is no other way to run one state, not to punish and sell anyone who works for the state. Since you have already called for the respect of the law, learn to respect it, and respect the law means waiting for one procedure to end and being at least so correct that what the court has ruled is nothing more than a delay and that is why it has imposed a fine of 10,000 and I am willing to pay it and, of course, I will pay it if the court decides to do so, and I will use my civil right to appeal. I know you wish we didn't have any rights, or at least I didn't have any civil rights, but I'm sorry, in this country, the law still applies, and that law applies to me, and to you, and to everyone else, and as such, it has to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43927	MP Tepic, comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43928	Thank you. This only shows that you will not anesthetize me with any explanation, like your wallpaper from the ruling majority. You've proven that there's no qualification for lateness. You have proved to this effect that you have violated the law by not answering within the legal period under the Law on the availability of information of public importance and that it has been falsified that the VBA report has been marked by the mark of secrecy confidential, which is not true. So don't lecture us here on the rule of law. You've broken the law, so you're gonna pay the fine and you're probably carrying it, I hope some sequencings since you're a representative and a member of the government. What is also important, Minister Stefanovic said in response that the European Commission's disastrous reports were during 2010 and 2011. I will remind you that Serbia was not yet in candidate status, it happened in the spring of 2012. If she'd had a weight around her neck then, not just around her leg, co-operation with The Hague Court where everyone today, who makes up the government, who came to the finished candidate status, who came to the ready-made ground for opening negotiating chapters, you were all against it. Technically, if we go backwards, you were also against candidate status, although you now have huge benefits from pre-accession negotiations and from all EU funds. I'll only use a few more seconds to transfer a few questions from the social media. I'm glad that Minister Kuburovic is back, so she can answer in writing because she won't be here now...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-27-0.u43929	No more questions, just comments. No, it's not that kind of practice, it's just comments on what you've heard, and you can't ask new questions. Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are important to read after five, six years of being here together in two convocations. It's very important to read. Thank you very much. It is now 19 hours and four minutes, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank you all for your participation, and the debate on amendments to the laws on the agenda continues tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 19.05]]
