ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45006	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ten days ago, the assembly majority passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The law says, among other things, that I am entering into force of the law and that it has entered into force, it ceases to apply the 2014 Retirement Act. We refer the question to the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, and consult with ministers Zoran Djordjevic and Siniš Mali -- who authorized them not to apply the law? Pensioners, or part of the pensioner, have received pensions that do not comply with the law. Who is he in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who can assess which group of pensioners should receive pension under that law, which cannot and can not mean permanently, does that mean if they get a pension next month that they will be denied for the amount they would get in this month? These days, we are witnessing ministers racing in the media, and pensioners with the lowest pensions will get, somebody says once, someone twice a year, someone 5,000, some 7,000 dinars, so you insult the intelligence of those people who don't ask for your charity. The fact is that the lowest pensions in Serbia are frighteningly small, frightening, indeed. We have told you nicely to propose a new law and to determine how pensions are calculated by making the lowest pension so that it can be decent to live, and the highest pension can only be three times that. What do we have going on today? So, exactly in line with what we were saying when we challenged you from that member where you predicted that the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines pension coordination, which I guess nowhere in the world exists, that you erased from the law the possibility of increasing or reducing or, in any case, the harmonisation of pensions, deadlines and criteria, and now, what is happening these days, immediately, a day or two after the entry into force of this law, it is proven that we Serbian radicals were absolutely right. Four years ago, when that pension took place, it was then done because the IMF asked the then government of the Republic of Serbia to do so, in order to improve the fiscal situation in the state of Serbia, etc. And what do we have today? Today, or two days ago, the IMF gave you a new warrant. He says -- you can do this any way you want to do it now, and it's exactly how anyone gets it by heart, what's done with paying off their October pension has nothing to do with the law, obviously has nothing to do with what leg the Prime Minister or these two resolution ministers have to do with it. What's the IMF asking you now? It says – every future alignment, and if it is an increase of a pension, it must be linear. So, who today has a pension of 120,000 dinars, if, say, the government decided to increase pensions by 10%, for example before the elections, that means that whoever has 12,000 would get another 12,000 pension increases, and whoever has 12 grand today would get 1,200 dinars. So the lowest price would still be about as much as an increase for that biggest pension. You're doing a bad job, you don't respect the law, and we really ask once again the legislators of this law -- how do they allow themselves to do whatever the law, whatever it is, the one you adopted 10 days ago, but who is it and where do they draw the powers of Ana Brnabić, Sinisa Mali and Zoran Djordjevic not to apply it? They can't choose selectively to whom a pension will be paid. True, what has been done, which you from the congregation's majority have accepted, by accepting this law, is just talking about what kind of papacy in pension pay is going to be in the future. And we're right, unfortunately... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45008	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45009	Thank you. My first question goes to the Ministry of Business and concerns an investment, one of the numerous investments that were solemnly and victoriously announced in the economy of Serbia, the Bangladeshi firm, or the Bangladeshi company that opened its own plant in Sombor, the textile industry, received a 3.4%-million-euro subsidy, announced 1000 jobs and over 1000 jobs to be opened, and from now on, as things and my latest information say there is nothing. It's never worked more than 100, 200 workers, wages are not received, the account is blocked. So, the company is "Pretty Sweeters Group". My question concerns this problem, although it's only one in the sea of those cases, where triumphantly, triumphantly open the drives, and then when infamously closing down on it, no one else or a few who writes or speaks. So the simple information about this case, of course, doesn't have to be the end of the world if it's an individual exception and a case, but my information says it's unfortunately not. So there are many such cases that these famously open and announced investments are infamously ending. These foreign investments are still donated to our funds, which I stress is the textile industry, which Sombor was known for, and we have closed domestic companies from Sombor, via Ivanjica, to Novi Pazar, to open and even sponsor, donated to the opening of these private foreign investments, which, when the deadlines are due by contracts, usually disappear with the sight of the owner's tail. So it's not airplanes, engines, chips, it's the textile industry. At least that's why we didn't need foreign knowledge and intelligence from Bangladesh or the Philippines. My second question goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and it's very specific. It says: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have information and why is he hiding it if there is, if there is no why, what is the attitude of the Russian Federation towards the topic of demarcation on KIM? So our public is familiar with the broad and every day speculates in the public that the Western power center supports this idea, which resists, so we know that Germany is against it, that Angela Merkel has reserves, and then allegedly these reserves of crown, so some lobbyists are engaged, even Tony Blair says, but it doesn't get into whether it's him or someone else, anyway, to soften that attitude of Germany. But it's striking to hear what our officially closest foreign policy partner Russia thinks about it. What was said on the subject to Alexander Vukic, President Vukic, when he spoke with Vladimir Putin in Russia? Was that even a theme? Has Mr. Dacic, the foreign minister, said anything about his colleague Sergei Lavrov during their numerous meetings recently? So, what's the attitude of the Russian Federation? Are we familiar, is our foreign ministry familiar with that attitude and what does he think about it? If it isn't, it's weird that it isn't, if it is, why would I say hiding from the local public? I'd have more questions, but here, I'll honor this minute and a half, for the sake of saving and efficient work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45010	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45011	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Brnabic. A few days ago, she participated in a so-called A security quorum organized by the National Avant-garde, an organization that is not well-known for which it is funded and which is unreliable, who is behind it. At one of the sessions in front of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Brnabic, a man who came from the BIA who is highly positioned in the same position, Marko Parezanovic said the following – that Serbia's most intense threat is hidden from the functioning of an external factor that most often uses the mechanisms of its special services. In this way, certain abuses are committed and individuals from opposition political parties, certain parts of the media, part of the NGO sector, and all together affect trade unions. (Alexander Martinovic: Everything is true. ) Since Mr. Martinovic says everything is true, I would ask Mrs. Ana Brnabic if she told us the names and last names of the BIA, who are opposition men who pose a threat to the Republic of Serbia and its security? Which parties exactly are they in? Are they listening? Are they being followed? We want to know on the basis of which someone from the National Avant-garde and BIA argues that the poor influence on Serbia by individuals from the opposition, and that on the other hand it is absolutely permitted that one organisation formed by Mr. Zelec, who is financed by the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation at the Security Diplomatic Academy in Moscow? How is that not an impact of the external factor on Serbia, and is the impact of the external factor on Serbia if you are the opposition in Serbia? I want Mrs. Brnabic to answer to me, who was sitting right next to Parezanovic, why was she silent and why did she quietly agree with him? Because citizens have the right to know how to fight this way by the ruling regime towards the opposition, which brings us back to the 1990s? My second question is for the D.A.'s prosecutor, also for all ministers in the government, including Mrs. Brnabic. Natasa Krinakapic, the prosecutor of the Higher Prosecutor's Office who handled the case of the helicopter, we all know that the prosecution has treated these cases shamefully, she said, remember that name well – Natasa Krinakapic, she said that a loss of criminal charges against Nikola Seselj, who threatened the death of Djordju Žujovic, publicly, collected money as a reward if something happened to him and if someone, I quote, cut his head short. The same prosecutor, Natasa Krinakapic, who participated in all these cases, now claims that criminal charges against Nikola Seselj have been lost. So why is this person still at work? Why does this person continue to perform such an important function and role in this country? Djordje Zujovic is otherwise one of the employees in this Assembly and would not be absolutely burned if at least once in this room there were to be shown elementary solidarity with the employee of the Republika Srpska Assembly. He is threatened with death in public, and Natasa Krivokapic, who has acted in cases, repeats Savamal and the helicopter apparently loses his criminal record and does not want to act on his official duty in this case. It's a shame and I want Anna Brnabic to answer that too. Number one - why is the opposition considered an enemy factor in the country and number two - why is Natasa Krivokapic still at work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45012	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45013	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read my question to succeed as many questions as I can ask. My first question, more specifically, goes to the prime minister of the government. I am speaking on behalf of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, with the initiative to consider, within your jurisdiction, the possibility of raising the monuments to Prince Pavle and the Knight King, the Unity of Alexander First Karadjordjevic, and the anniversary of the assassination of King Alexander First Karadjordjevic, who was killed today in Marseille? The movement to rebuild the Kingdom of Serbia calls on the city's authority, as well as the prime minister to make a decision on the long-awaited setting up of monuments by one of the largest Serbian rulers. There is no better way to mark a hundred years of the great war than to honor the one who united all Serbs in one country. The Knight King, a uniter, was the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army in the great war and created a state greater than Dušan's empire. Serbia, Yugoslavia had a strong industrial momentum and reformed agriculture during its rule. She had a strong peasant and a very civil society. There has been a proud monument in Paris for eight decades, and it is time for this great man to be marked with dignity in our capital. It is a similar initiative when it comes to Prince Paul. Prince Paul was one of the most capable, most resourceful and educated people, Serbs, in our history. He was also a far-sighted diplomat, who, if not for democratic violence and irresponsible treason, would have allowed Yugoslavia to maintain military neutrality during World War II, thus avoiding huge victims of death and destruction. An independent state of Croatia would not be created, and thus the lives of more than a million Serbs would be saved, a brother-killing war between Chetnik and Partizan would be avoided, and therefore divisions that unfortunately exist today. Prince Paule made a modern metropolis out of a Belgrade stunt. He left numerous museums, buildings and priceless works of art to his people. I think this is one of the most beautiful ways to repay these two great Serbs and at the time the most respected people in Serbia, both in Europe and the world. My second parliamentary question is to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, as well as the Ministry of Finance. I am speaking on behalf of the movement that I represent with the initiative to consider, within your responsibilities, the possibility for children who receive a child's allowance to provide free textbooks. I want to say that the current minister we had, Minister of Education, in my personal opinion, is the best minister we've had since the start of the multi-party, and I believe this proposal will seriously be considered. The Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement believes that the state must provide the necessary resources to facilitate the cost of compulsory primary education, as well as secondary education for every child receiving a child's allowance, as it already points to the difficult material position of the family. The ministry should also influence the teaching chamber, agree on a long-term plan and programme for school courses, instead of changing it almost every school year and presenting huge problems for parents. This also requires the purchase of new textbooks, which would make it easier for students to buy or inherit used textbooks from older generations attending the same school. During the Kingdom of Serbia, it invested in education. The prestigious cultural and educational institutions, such as the Mother of Serbia, SANU and others, have been established, have raised the oldest schools and universities in our country. It is necessary to continue this tradition, creating the best conditions for our children's education in our country. My last question, I'm speaking to the Department of Economy. The current subsidies are too small to start any serious business. People who have a desire and a vision and a time to create new jobs must have greater support for a country whose economies contribute. We believe that the state, instead of spending too much money on foreign investors, would be good, but we think it's too big. It should have been more dedicated to helping young businessmen start their own business, because these people are the biggest losers in the transition. There are a lot of creative young people in the Republic of Serbia who need to be given some incentive to start their own business after their studies have been completed, not to wait for work at a company or to look beyond the borders of their country. Here, I'm finishing up, with all this in mind what I said, I hope my suggestions, my questions will be taken seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45014	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45015	Thank you. Due to the importance of the issue, I refer the first question, the same question as Mr. Boozovic, the president, the Prime Minister, the Home Affairs Minister and the BIA director. Speaking last week at a conference to Serbia's safest, BIA representative Marko Parezanovic said the most intense threat to Serbia is the hidden operation of an external factor, which mostly uses the mechanisms of its special services, and as co-workers of those services, which they have put into some destructive and subversive function, individuals from the ranks of opposition political parties, individual parts of the media, NGOs, as well as trade unions. The question arises, how is it possible that something like this can happen, as well as the services of which countries are concerned, when, if believed by the President of the Republic, we have never had a better relationship with all those countries that have the most organised services, such as Russia, China, the United States, Germany, Great Britain, France, Israel, Turkey, and then with neighbours Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria? Or, perhaps, relations with these countries are not as good as the authorities show them. I also ask, what are opposition politicians, media, NGOs and trade unions that are the target of undercover action? I think that, above all, BIA should deal with those who have real power and influence in the country in the last six years, and some for much longer than that, and not with those who are called by the government the sad remains of the opposition, because if such remains can destabilise the country, then we should really be seriously concerned about its future. Besides, I'm looking for an explanation why our top state officials have agreed to participate in an event organised by an unknown organization so far, what kind of national avant-garde is it? As soon as someone says to himself it's avant-garde, he thinks he sees better, and he has more rights than others, and by the way that avant-garde is a National, he says who would have that greater right. Why did our top state officials participate in a gathering of such an organization, which, according to their words, fosters an archaeological approach to the notion of a national idea and announces a march of the national circle, which, of course, is part of the institutions. To recap, a statement by Mr. Parezenovic, a BIA representative, who some of the miles have already started calling Ilija Cvorovic, is an irresistible reminder of the rhetoric of the 1990s. His words can be understood as a threat to all those who think differently from the current authority, which is unacceptable. I'm asking you, as well as the rest of the state officials mentioned above, will they do anything about the statements of the agency's officials? Next question I refer to Transport Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, when will someone finally be responsible for permanent delays and not professionalism at the construction of Corridor 10? After the collapse of the supporting wall in the Gredile ravine, we could, God forbid, attend and tear down the viaduct on the bypass around Cacko. In fact, just a week before the viaduct was to be released in full capacity, which would have been a delay for more than a month and a half, and the resuscitation works started in mid-May, it was observed that there were cracks on one of the supporting pillars. How is that even possible? If none of those for the construction of Corridor 10 are responsible for all the catastrophic failures so far, then the minister would finally have to take responsibility alone. Next question I refer to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, whose initiative, without any analysis, last year in August, the government made a decision to abolish the visa regime with Iran, and then after strong, I would say, justified pressures from the EU, back-to-back without appropriate analyses and consequences, at yesterday's session, that same government lifted the previous decision and reintroduced visas for the citizens of this country? Such irresponsible behaviour has only further marred Serbia's international reputation, as double damage has been done. First to the EU and now to Iran. Finally, a question for the Prime Minister, culture minister, economy minister and finance minister. In fact, information has been leaked to the public that the state will sell to the legally non-existent agency of Tanjug during this month, as well as that since the Agency has no assets and has debts, it is likely to sell its brand. I ask, when will the government go out with the details of the sale, and that should be done as soon as possible, because potential customers could be affected by these rumors, or uncertainty? I also ask how much does Tanjug receive from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. from the Ministry of State institutions for the news it broadcasts, and how much money does Tanjug owe to state authorities and, above all, on the basis of unpaid taxes, i.e. on what property, in what way and on what basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45016	Dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, God helps everyone! I would first of all like to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Is it true that the Supreme Cassation Court has confirmed that banks in Serbia have been illegally charging credit costs for years, i.e. that banks can only charge this cost if it is real and if the user is previously clearly and unequivocally informed, which was not the case, and not to charge it at a percentage amount of the total amount of credit, as was the case? Did the bank, on this basis, rob Serbian citizens of tens of millions of euros, and can citizens now seek to return this money with a tight interest because there is no statute of limitations in these disputes? What will the government of the Republic of Serbia do to take away the extra profit from banks earned by the Serbian citizens' robbery? The following issues go to the Minister of Agriculture in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One, is it true that from January 1, 2019, Serbian peasants will have to keep books and pay bookkeepers? Two, why do Serbian peasants pay television subscription to electric numbers in production facilities such as farms, coolers, droughts, wells and the like? Under three, when will the government reduce the price of fuel in Serbia, as promised and abolish VAT and excise duty on diesel fuel intended for agricultural production? Under four, how can our peasants sell anything when you're importing everything? Potatoes, milk, meat, beans, onions, tomatoes, strawberries, raspberries, and all other goods of broad consumption are imported into this country. Why not protect your domestic production by introducing a levaman, i.e. non-tariff protection measures on imports of agricultural products, which are normally imported at different subsidised and dumping prices, and all of this to protect domestic goods and domestic producers, you have the option even under the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, in accordance with Article 2 of the Agreement on Stabilisation and Association with the European Union. 32, 33, 40 and 41. The real question is, why don't you do it? Why are you protecting the import lobby and destroying the domestic manufacturer? Under five, does the government in this country plan to be a dump for all goods from the European Union, including food? When are we gonna know what kind of food we're eating? When will it begin with the work of an accredited laboratory for the control of milk, meat, fruit, vegetables, fish, eggs and the like, or is it in the interest of someone in this country that there is no control and that our citizens eat food of suspicious origin, while the import lobby is enormously enriched by agricultural producers and the health security of Serbian citizens? Under six, when are you going to return the agrarian budget to a legal minimum of 5%? In this year alone, you cut agricultural producers by 10 billion dinars, and every year we have a significant reduction in the agricultural budget, and the payment of small and poor subsidies is regularly delayed. Under seven, does this government want a rich, healthy and independent peasant, who works on his farm and orchard or farm for 1,000 to 1,200 euros, or does he want a humiliated, socially and economically endangered peasant, who is due to work with foreigners for 250 euros? Under eight, why don't we subsidize young couples who live in the country or who want to come back to live in the country with 10,000 euros, not give you our money to foreigners who come to Serbia? Under nine, when will farmers be able to know the price of their agricultural products, therefore, to be guaranteed both the price and the purchase, and not as the current situation in this market economy of yours so-called, that the political mafia in co-operation with the import-export lobby creates prices and that we have a catastrophic situation that, say, raspberry producers still do not know the price of products for this year 2018? In the end, under ten, is it possible that you are not aware of the destruction of the Serbian village and peasants with the fall of all agricultural prices this year and the inability to start production at all for next year? A very specific question, how will the agriculture minister react to a huge problem that has emerged in the Forest for Serbian peasants? Namely, have you heard of the suicide of a great redeemer, so-called Agro Rodja companies from Glibovac in Smederjevska Palanca, which remained in debt to millions, hundreds and thousands of agricultural producers in Šumadia, especially Smederjevska Palanca, Mladenovac and Topoli? Will these people be compensated and will they find a way to get back to them what this great redeemer took from them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45017	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45018	Thank you. The first question is referred to by the Minister of Health and I ask – will Vimizim be available at the expense of the Republic Health Insurance Fund in Serbia and adults who suffer from a rare disease called mucopolysaccharidosis? Currently, 12 adults are registered in Serbia who suffer from this rare disease, but only patients up to 18 years of age receive medication from July. We in Novi Sad have two adult patients waiting for this cure. According to media information, therapy costs as much as 400,000 euros per year per patient. I would like to refer the second question to the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. In response to its reply to the National Assembly on 19 April, it was stated that the Agreement on the concession of the airport "Nikola Tesla" with the concessionary of the French company "Vansi" will be published when, under one – the concessionary receives a certificate from the airport operator and under two – after fulfilling, quoting, all obligations and "Vansi Erports Serbia d.o.o." and the Republic of Serbia. The reply sent by the Minister to the National Assembly on 15 May states that the concession contract will be announced when the concession partner receives a certificate from the airport operator and pays a one-time concession fee. So in a month later, the response sent as a prerequisite for the disclosure of the contract is not mentioned in the fulfillment of all obligations by the Republic of Serbia, so we ask exactly what is the criterion for the agreement being disclosed? The payment of concession fees and the certification of the airport operator for the concessionary or that the Republic of Serbia fulfils all its obligations under the contract, how explicitly in response to the minister's question previously asked? In addition, in a response sent by Minister Mihajlovic on 15 May, it also states what the business objectives of the concession arrangement are, that the airport is marketed as a regional leader for transfer and transit traffic, which is needed by the concessionary, which as a network manager of 37 airports should finance the necessary investments and offer large companies some special benefits in order to attract these large companies here, but also states in this response that in order to protect against competition in, quote, modern and connected business worlds, and that competition would not come to the knowledge of the way in which this business venture is planned, parts of contracts containing a business plan for 25 years will not be disclosed for the entire duration of the concession. So we ask – what and when exactly will be made public and put to the public’s attention, and how will the public from these documents be convinced that the chosen arrangement, which public property and public interest are entrusted to a private operator at 25 years of age, is really the best possible and really has a chance of being profitable? I will remind you, we have already asked in this assembly, the transparency of Serbia has been given a judicial solution which requires the court to release the contract. To this day, according to the court's ruling, the ministry has not disclosed the contract. At the PPP Commission, we have never seen a concession study from which it will indeed be concluded that the concession is the best arrangement for the development of our largest airport and that indeed such an arrangement has a chance of being profitable. In addition, in an earlier reply, the minister also stated that in order to close the financial part of the arrangement, as one of the preconditions for the contract to be disclosed, the approvals of the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the IFC are awaiting, as these institutions finance the arrangement. We are interested in what and how much the concessionaire funds from its funds, and how much will be financed from the loans of these institutions and who guarantees that the concessionaire will meet the obligations of these international creditors during the upcoming 25 years of concession, because 25 years is a very long period to create business plans, many circumstances can change and plans can be broken. We are interested, for example, in the event of the termination of the contract before the deadline for the airport to be awarded in a concession, what if the termination occurs in the case of a more force for which the liability cannot be assigned to any of the parties and similar clauses, and all in order to ensure that the public interest and public money is indeed maximum protected from the failure of this business venture, if, for example, the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not contribute to this business venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45019	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45020	Thank you, Chairman. Yesterday, Pristina representative Thaci said they have no intention of fulfilling a part of the Brussels Agreement that speaks of the Serb municipalities community and that they practically have no intention of giving the Serb municipalities community, as the Brussels Agreement says, any executive jurisdiction. Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's question, which signed with representatives of Pristina for six years, with Alexander Vukic, the Brussels Agreement, what further do we discuss with representatives of Pristina? If the agreement is signed, and it is six years ago, the state of Serbia has fulfilled all the points of the agreement and has practically withdrawn from the KIM territory. She pulled all her institutions, filled out all the points, until Pristina fulfilled a single one. The question is, what are we talking to them about next? The enough movement has sent a proposal officially to the government of the Republic of Serbia to freeze further negotiations with Pristina until they meet what they have committed to. You'll admit, it's completely pointless to negotiate with someone about anything without someone fulfilling what's been agreed here for six years. So this proposal is reasonable and rational. This is something everyone would have to understand. Everyone in the world understood and this is a good move to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia because Serbia needs to form a community of Serb municipalities in order to protect the non-Albanian population especially south of Ibra, where most Serbs are in Kosovo. Then, the second issue goes to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly. In fact, the Movement Enough was referred to by a proposal for a law on KIM and we want to talk about this bill that practically solves the position of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the question of KIM. Citizens already practically bomb daily the various newspapers that are close to the authorities about how Kosovo is lost, that it threatens the riding of Albanians to Vranj, that Kosovo is a stone around our necks and that we should cut it off and that we should join the EU and that there, when we cut off Kosovo, they will bloom roses. To all this, Matija Bećkovic said a few very good and strong sentences that say if Kosovo is not ours why they ask us to give it to them. If it's theirs, why are they taking it, and if they can take it, I don't know what they're trying to do. This should clearly tell us that, of course, you cannot just separate Kosovo from Serbia, there is Resolution 1244 that clearly says that KIM are the components of Serbia over which the UN protectorate is. Germany has managed the Balkans for more than ten years and the US Democrats have handed over the entire Balkans to Obama and Clinton ten years ago, and the German interest is practically legally binding an agreement with Pristina. One of the main arguments is that Serbia has a constitution that does not apply throughout the territory because we do not know our borders. Of course, our borders are known, they are defined both by our Constitution and international law, Resolution 1244, but Serbia should remove this argument from the table that our Constitution does not apply in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law we have proposed, the KIM law can, without changing the Constitution, cross our Constitution and Resolution 1244, using a model of the relationship between Denmark and the Faeroe Islands to practically resolve the status issue and define Serbia's further negotiating position on KIM. To remind citizens of Denmark is an EU member, it has a part of the territory that the Faeroe Islands itself has declared independent in the referendum, but it does not give them a chair in the UN. The citizens of the Faeroe Islands are neither Danish citizens nor EU members, and are still an integral part of Denmark. Serbia can apply this model in order to practically resolve all issues related to KIM for citizens living downstairs. Our law addresses the issue of citizenship, the issue of ID cards, the bill solves all relations and remains controversial things such as cultural monuments, such as the property of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo, which should be negotiated. The question is why the government, the president and the National Assembly don't want to talk, we have an internal dialogue, let's say a bill like this, we've sent it to you, we expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45021	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45022	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, at one of the session of the National Assembly in the spring session, the amendments and additions to the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads were adopted in May of this year, which included issues of auto-school work and conditions for passing driving exams. Under the law, a sublegal act, the Auto-school Regulation requiring these organisations to meet additional requirements regarding the quality of the driver's training vehicle and one of the most important changes is that the driver's training vehicle must have an ABS brake system but that training polygons must be adapted which is a major problem for auto-schools located in the territory of the city of Belgrade for a simple reason, because of the polygons, i.e. areas that are mostly parkins adapted to driver training. According to subsequent polls, as many as 37.8% of auto-schools are thought to be unable to meet these conditions within the time-limit laid down by law and regulation, and hence, the work and survival of these auto-schools may be at risk of losing their jobs. In order to warn this issue of my question to the Ministry of Interior responsible for implementing this law, is it possible to consider extending the deadlines for adapting car-schools to new standards in order to avoid closing more than a third of the auto-schools, because only adapting the braking systems is a significant investment for auto-schools without talking about other adjustments and adaptations that must be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45023	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am touched by Saša's "rasulovic" speech of his concern for KIM, so my first question is about whether it is true that Sasa Radulovic, in a people known as Sasa "kradulović" in 2008 on the day of the adoption of the Kosovo Independence Declaration, stayed in the United States and warmly supported Albanian independence for their media? So is it true and is there any knowledge at the Foreign Ministry that this happened and that the gentleman mentioned was there? My second question is for the tax administration, for the Ministry of Finance to answer me, how much Balsa Bozovic paid the income tax 2017/2018. Because in public it is known that, say, he flew in January of the month, remember he flew in January of the month, they like to fly in winter, and summers to winter, he, Chad and similar to him, how much he paid taxes on citizens' income, since he spent 30,000 euros there, which cost 15,000 and as far as I know, the income of citizens is limited to about two million. I want to be answered correctly, did the gentleman who spent money and at these white-world fashion houses in London, etc., at the most expensive destinations, did the gentleman mentioned that year have so much money, or did he show that kind of income and pay taxes, since they call him Balsha "honest", I think it's time to check it out. Also, I'm asking the Justice Department to tell me if he has put an outrageous pressure on the judiciary today, and this is where he stands for the rule of law. Did he call a prosecutor whose name I won't mention more times and thus exerted an act of political pressure on judicial authorities that are independent and independent, depending on whether the prosecution or the judiciary. Just to remind you that this particular prosecutor was chosen by reform, the famous DS reform, on 30 November 2009, which is what the data is about. So, if something is wrong with him, I think it's time to address Malovićka, Home, Ristic, Konstantinovic, or as they are already called, these famous reforming sizes that our judiciary has turned black and made it the court of its party. So, I want a clear and accurate answer from the Justice Department, did he use the speech to put political pressure on the judiciary and secondly, is it true that the said prosecutor was elected on 30 November 2009, which means it absolutely has nothing to do with her choice with the current ruling majority? Also, I ask the Ministry of Agriculture to give me answers for this Junos Tito, who does not yet know that Tito died, so this Chevarlic assists him, and Ševarlic cannot ask me because he took 62,000 euros from the Star project that was intended for cattle on the Old Mountain, is it true that Tito died and that we do not have the right to guaranteed prices, i.e., that the incentives from the time of Ševarlic and DSS have increased by 100m euros a year? Is it true that if we were to ban imports, that there would be a ban on exports, that there would be reciprocity, and that in that situation we would be in the thick minus, because we are achieving a surplus of 1.2 billion euros per year? So, we sell more agricultural products than we import, and if we ban imports from these countries, it would probably be prohibited for us to export, so we would be in the thick minus, which means that Bosko Obradovic, a semi-mason Orthodox organisation, is working fat on the damage of our farmers. So these are the questions I'd like to get an answer on and, of course, let's see who's doing it. I would like to be answered at last -- what will be done about the million amounts that Vuk Jeremic, because it is constantly mentioned those 200,000 euros he received from the Muslim brothers in Qatar, 200,000 euros, what will be done about those seven million he won on his NGO and on the PR organization? And to conclude, that Marko Parezenović, and I don't know who's in charge of the BIA, says – is it true that Aleksandra Jerkov has completed the CIA's training, or that she's been through that kind of training and that the CIA's training on political action? And now imagine if the Federal Security Service found a congressman who had been trained or had been trained by the BIA, imagine what would have happened in America to that congressman, a senator who would have been training our security service or the Russian security service. Since Bosko Obradovic is with them together, I claim that unity has taken place and I ask the service of security between those who threaten us outside and those who stole us inside, who have now repacked and with whom, of course, Gilas and Bosko Obradovic are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45025	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287 without taking advantage of that right? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dusko Tarbuk and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been called to attend the meetings of Goran Trivan, Minister of Environment Protection Ivan Karić, Slobodan Perović, Biljana Filipović Djurisić, Jasmina Jović, Andrej Bojic, Branislava Tanaskovic, Darinka Radović, Dusan Ognjanović, Aleksandar Radošević and Olivera Topalov, Nikola Marović, Marija Raicevic. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. Report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejects amendments submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Dragan Vesović and together Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. The National Assembly carried out a search in principle, pursuant to Article 157(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. I'm now setting a five-minute break until the government and the ministry are in the O.R. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45027	Since we are late for environmental protection, it is no big deal that the minister is late for the home of the National Assembly and does not respect the MPs. It speaks of him and his relationship to this high house, but given the overall delay in protecting the environment, it is not so terrible. What is terrible is that we have absolutely no explanation from neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, why certain amendments proposed by the Serbian Movement Group of the Dvera were rejected without any explanation. Is it perhaps the amendment that seeks to prevent abuses and corruption in this proposed law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment? Because nowhere is it foreseen that funds from international funds will be shared with farmers in Serbia and, for example, whether they will be divided by the party membership of the SNS and the SPS, which also belongs to the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia in charge of this area. It is clear that something here wants to hide and that by rejecting the amendments to the Serbian Movement of Dvori, it does not even allow a debate on these proposed amendments. What I have proposed in this proposal to amend the very title of the bill is one essential thing that I spoke about in the principle debate, and which the minister, so elegantly, has avoided even mentioning and answering my questions, knowing, of course, that all that I have spoken on the subject is true. I proposed that the law be amended and read: "The draft law on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment – Serbia without GMOs to preserve natural resources". So, I'm absolutely sure there are no Serbian citizens who don't want Serbia's health security. I am sure that most Serbian citizens oppose any imports, traffic and trade of genetically modified organisms, whether it is seed species or food, but that this authority must not put a plea to and against GMOs on a national referendum, but rather through various methods it wants to introduce a liberalisation of genetically modified food and shifts on our market. This is why the minister kept my question quiet in the principle debate, because he must not go out publicly and say, "I am against genetically modified food and seeds, or perhaps may, let's hear it, Mr. Minister, what is your opinion on this matter and why do you reject this proposed amendment to the Serbian Dvori Movement?" So it is clear to you that genetically modified seed is already being imported into this country, you understand that the huge area is and that huge hectares in Serbia are already being sown genetically modified and soybean, as well as other cereals. It is clear to you that your inspectors are not doing their job and not enough to worry about preventing this kind, to say the spreads of GMOs in our country, as you understand that you did not, together with your colleagues in the government, limit the foods that in their origin have GMOs, and enter the market of the Republic of Serbia, even if you would mark that these provisions contain certain ingredients which are derived from GMOs. So, the fact is that this country has not stepped into the protection of the health of the population. The fact is that GMOs would endanger environmental protection and citizens' health security. The fact is that we would be brought into absolute dependence on foreign seed imports, and you confirm whether it is true or not, that the moment we agreed to import genetically modified foreign seed, we would be obliged to re-export that seed over and over again, because another seed could no longer be sown to these agricultural areas. So, who is the lobbyist in the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the liberalisation of imports of genetically modified food and seed? Who is behind this obligation that we are forced to enter the World Trade Organisation and the EU, that we must change the existing law prohibiting the import and transport of GMOs? So, why, if your ideas are well-intentioned and if you have a positive view on this matter as the Serbian Movement of the Dvori, did you not accept this amendment, which would clearly define that Serbia must be a country without GMOs? It is actually our strategic chance in terms of agricultural production, food processing and, of course, environmental protection. If we keep our country without GMOs, Serbia without GMOs is actually our strategic chance and, I say, a competitive advantage over other countries. You know, Mr. Minister, the price of classical soy is far more expensive than genetically modified soybeans, that we have potential in all these areas of agricultural production to remain a country without GMOs. And I can't understand why the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't support, say, one such proposal from the Serbian Dvora Movement? I have already told you and I will repeat, if you want to protect the environment properly, you must, first of all, declare Serbia a country without GMOs, and you have, as many as Professor Ševarlic, over 120 towns and municipalities in Serbia who have made declarations against GMOs, exactly as Professor Ševarlic, 136 towns and municipalities in Serbia have made declarations, unanimous decisions by all councils in these municipalities and cities, that they want their territory of the city and municipalities to be free of GMOs. Do you know that Professor Miladin Ševarlic has submitted such a proposal for a declaration here in the Republic Parliament, that the whole of Serbia is then declared a country without GMOs? Why don't you, as Minister of Environmental Protection, publicly support it? Why don't you ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make Serbia a country without GMOs? Isn't that environmental protection? Or, publicly, what's your point of view on this matter. Last time you avoided answering my question. So, the thing here is very simple. Do you, as part of the amendments and addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, protect our natural resources, our river flows, our mineral wealth, our sources of clean drinking water, our agricultural land, to stay in our hands and be the engine of our domestic and economic development, or are you simply rejecting it because you are also a supporter of the Government of Serbia's policy that only foreigners in Serbia should succeed, only foreign investors to receive subsidies, only to make extra profits and bring it abroad, and you don't care about domestic businessmen and domestic farmers, to whom you don't give anything compared to what our country gets from our parties? How do you plan to protect the environment in Serbia if you haven't kept it in our hands and agricultural land, and you sold it here in the PKK, 17,000 hectares, and tell me, is that then environmental protection, or when you sell streams for mini-hydro-hydro-lowres, tell me, is that environmental protection? Or, when you sell our mining wealth, like RTB Bor, is that also a protection of the environment? Will strangers take better care of it than we do? Why would strangers exploit our natural resources? Are we incapable of exploiting our natural resources and profiting from it? So it is impossible to imagine protecting the environment without preserving Serbia's natural resources in our hands. It is impossible to imagine protecting the environment without declaring Serbia without GMOs, without declaring Serbia intolerant to GMOs. What's stopping you, Mr. Minister, from doing that if you agree to this presentation? So, who's the lobbyist for GMOs in Serbia? Who is lobbyist in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Who orders us from the World Trade Organisation or the EU to do this? Why do we have to do this? Why should we question health security and environmental protection and our economic development because of some order from the Brussels Central Committee, that we must liberalise our law? Tell the public do you currently discuss a new GMO law at the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Yes or no? I know you're talking about it. I know there's a draft of that law, I know you're planning to liberalise the import and traffic of GMOs, and you tell me if it's true or not? And I'm telling you it's true and you're planning it and you want to bring it into Serbia. But I am now telling you that you will have a big problem with a large number of Serbian citizens who oppose GMOs, food and seeds, and that you will have a big problem with 136 cities and municipalities in Serbia that have unanimously decided that there will be no GMOs on their territory. So, the thing is very serious. I expect you to give me a very clear and precise answer to the asked question – why did you reject the amendment to the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, which clearly defines and complements the Law on the Protection of the Environment with the words: "Serbia without GMOs and the preservation of Serbia's natural resources"? What is the issue here, and why can the government of the Republic of Serbia refuse such a thing in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45028	The first word is Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45029	First of all, Mr. Obradovic, I understand your need to color the question of the environment with the political speech and the topics you are interested in, but most of the topics you've started have nothing to do with what we're talking about today. It's not supposed to, and I don't think that in the title of this law, as you said, this provision should stand. You have the explanation we gave. We can discuss this because it's certainly a legitimate topic. So there's no dilemma at all, but what I'm going to draw your attention to is decency, first of all, at the beginning of communication, who's late, whether anyone's running politics, whether they're putting pressure on someone, etc., don't talk to me like that because it's not nice. The specifics and specific questions, whether or not I answered this or what, so it's simple, if we're talking about genetics, what you're alluding, in any case you're not alluding, asking, genetically modified food is something we're just going to talk about, certainly in Parliament. I'm not sure Serbia can get into what you're talking about today. Genetically modified food carries great risks, and we will absolutely deal with it seriously. My view on this will be a position that will clearly tell you that genetically modified food cannot be something that is just so present in Serbia. So other than those standard things, you have European countries that have dealt with it, that I don't get into the details. One is production, the other is trade, etc. So that's the essential reason. I think we'll talk about it when the time comes. I have a clear attitude that I'm telling you about right now. Serbia needs to be a clean country, but don't talk today, on the topic of environmental protection, about these other topics you've launched, there's no need. So today we're talking about the law. For me, this is not acceptable to the name of what you said today, but to talk about how you alluded to it yourself, of course we'll talk about it, but on the other hand, don't impute the government to put pressure on it or that the government has to work on someone's understanding of this or that. The Serbian government is working in the interest of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45030	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 116. – The provisions of this Rules of Procedure concerning the work of the National Assembly shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. The Honorable Mr. Minister is a participant in the work of the National Assembly and he has no right to discipline the MPs. If the Minister does not know, the National Assembly shall elect a minister, and the Minister shall explain to the People's MP what is brought up by his perception and what is unrequited, to address the MP by name and last name, it shall exceed the standards of dignity of this Assembly. It is not the first time that ministers for some of these known reasons give lectures on how the MPs behave. We have the President of the Assembly, we have one who, at this point as vice president of the National Assembly, manages the work of this Parliament, and he is the one who should, like us, give us lessons and importance about the work of this Rules of Procedure. The least the minister can do is give us lectures. Hold back, Mr. Minister, this has been happening to you several times already.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45032	My colleague Vesovic, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken by the provisions you have stated, because to remind you, it is true that the ministers and members of the Government are guests in the National Assembly, that the National Assembly is elected by both the Government and the Minister and the Government for its work to the National Assembly. Let me remind you, first of all, we should respect each other. You agree with me? I took a break a few minutes ago while Mr. Secretary entered the O.R., so that your chief of Parliament would have attacked him if he had been late for the session. We can talk about whether he's right or not, just to ask one other question – what about respecting us as a colleague? If you make one such reaction, expect that the other side will respond in some way, and nothing was offensive. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (No) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45033	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. You have already mentioned something about a member of the seven, when it comes to respecting colleagues and, in total, this respected home, but I am glad that someone from the Dvori parliamentary group also mentioned education. If we're going to talk about education, that's exactly what I want to point out and distract you, and that's about Article 107. You have just heard an insult to the Serbian government, that lobbyists are foreign forces, that someone who works for some kind of, say, the interest of foreign embassies, but only for the citizens of Serbia, for all of us here to mention and to clear up the matter of who's lobbyist. Not a single minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor any MP from this respected home received money through foreign embassies to lobby for anything. I don't think anyone's ever heard of it, but that's why the leader of the movement to which Bosko Obradovic belongs got 200,000 euros through the Qatar Embassy to lobby against his own country's interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45034	Hey, buddy, just explain, what does this have to do with any breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45035	It is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly to be false about lobbying within the Serbian government in the interest of some foreign factors. I think you had to stop it and maybe use another member of the Rules of Procedure and give a warning to Bosko Obradovic. I just draw your attention to the way Bosko Obradovic tried and made a comparison with all that the ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing, that everything he respects and tries to honor the government and this government is actually doing with its leaders. The proof of this is the 200,000 euros from the Qatar Embassy that his leader Vuk Jeremic received to lobby against his own country's interest. That's exactly the link I wanted to draw your attention to with article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45036	I don't think I've broken any regulations of the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs can discuss things the way they think they should, but just so we don't go to personal insults, hurt dignity. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Vladimir Orlic, the right to replication for mentioning the party's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45037	The Serbian Progressive Party you mentioned is leading the country successfully on the path to European integration. It's no secret, and those results speak for themselves enough. I decided to take this opportunity, first of all, to explain to you, Mr. Minister, why, since we know everything here about whoever caused the replica, absolutely everything, can't talk to him like he says – clear and precise. So it's about the lack of any clarity and precision in man's attitudes. You heard him talk about the Brussels commissioners, talks about the EU, etc. It's about the man who's for the EU today, he's against it tomorrow, so the day after tomorrow, it'll be up to him whether he's sitting in this room or sitting with his friends who are all big advocates of the idea of the EU. You know what he said in this room by mistake on October 4th? I guess he forgot he was here, not there with Gilas, Jeremic, Stefanovic and the others. He said here: “I have never failed, betrayed my beliefs, ideology, and the program. I've never been against the EU. “ So he was never against the EU. What sounds different today is the question of his regular confusion. When we talk about the program, he is today, as he says, coordinator, although yesterday he said he wasn't, and the day before yesterday he was, and tomorrow there won't be, again, a new association, a tycoon-lyotic association, and that association has some, as they say, 30 points. Those of him, the ones you see there, say that 80% of the programme, these dots are theirs, and others say that in each of the 30 of these points is the spirit of the EU, the spirit of European integration. When you're dealing with people like that, and you heard what he said earlier about Brussels, the EU, standards, etc., it's clear to you that there's nothing clear or precise about it. As for the polite, whom you have looked back on, it is about people whose image and opportunity, whose system of values are represented by one Željko Vesenović. Unfortunately, you know who I mean, then you realize how polite, with what is clear and precise, you can expect along with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45038	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45039	Thank you, Chairman. The minister confirmed the main thing that I say we will soon get a law here that liberalises Serbia's market for imports of genetically modified organisms, and whether it will have a position at all and whether it will deal with that position in its own government, is one big issue. According to his timidness here, I am sure he will not, because he will not be asked, but rather the World Trade Organisation and the EU they serve and so faithfully go at any national price, as counterpart Orlic said. So it is clear who has changed their attitudes here, former representatives of the SRS who have changed into SNS and have become servants of the EU and Brussels, which today is and is not really an honor to you. What's the problem here, Mr. Minister, is that you are neglecting that in these 136 cities and municipalities that have brought declarations against genetically modified organisms on their territory not only the representatives of the opposition, but also the ruling majority, most often from the SNS, the SPS, which means that we are locally all unique when it comes to GMOs. We're all against 136 cities and municipalities, regardless of the difference between government and opposition. It is a clear message to you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't even think about any changes to the law. It can change the law, further sharpen opposition to genetically modified food and seeds in Serbia and focus full legislation on protecting Serbia without GMOs. So that's what they send you as a message and your voters and your representatives at the bar and your party officials in 136 cities and municipalities, where together with us from the opposition, they stand up against GMOs, or for Serbia without GMOs. Is that binding on you, or do you think you're passing laws without the will of most Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45040	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45041	As for what you've heard now, I am again helping you, Mr. Minister, to understand how things work here, that we are EU servants because we are for European integration, and those who say that they are not. So it's about a man who, as I read to you a little while ago, said 4.10 -- I've never been against the EU, here today seems to be. She'll change her mind again. The leader, the tycoon-lyotic association, whose spokesman he is, once co-ordinator, and not a bit, and yet it is, depending on what day it is, Dragan Gilas spoke on one of the TVs the other day about the issue of relations with European integration and you know what he said, he says – we will all implement when we come to power, as far as European integration is concerned, nothing will stop, we will do all of this appropriately. Otherwise, this Dragan Gilas, why he's also important, not only to introduce himself to the views of the one he defends, but because it seems, when we talk about principle, he used to have opinions about Dragan Gilas, and today they're gone, at least not like that. You know what he said about this foreign influence in the country and serving foreign interests? Here, only this man, to look back at him, told Dragan Gilas in 2013 that he was rich in profits for state-owned companies, but also foreign firms that had previously been able to afford privileged business or robbery privatisation in Serbia. So, it's a wonderful display of great principles, one clear policy and a clear attitude, when something like this is thought of by Dragan Gilas, and today it's being served as the best second, probably by a big financier when co-ordinated on his behalf, then it's no wonder that you don't know anymore is for the EU or not, is 80% of your programme, as you say, for European integration or not, you want to implement or not. There's no point, the essence is in this last thing that's mentioned, the will of the majority. These people have only one interest, power and money at all costs, and in their case that means beyond the will of the majority, they are very aware of it. That's where all this confusion is coming from.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45042	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45043	It's pretty amazing why the representatives of this group of alliances with stakes and ropes, so the best-looking name would suit them, why they treat their frustrations by mentioning the SRS where there's no reason. Has anyone in this room ever been a member of the SRS? Well, they were. Were they against the EU then? They were. Are we, Serbian radicals and then and now, opponents of the EU? We did. What does that have to do with what this Ljotic is once an opponent of the EU, and now he is a vice-president, a spokesman, what is known as this Vuk Jeremic, who is known to be a man in favour of Serbia's entry into NATO. Look. Let him read what WikiLeaks says. NATO's main lobbyist are he and Boris Tadic, who will likely also join them in the alliance of evil fathers and worse mothers. Indeed, there is no reason to mention the SRS in this EU-related relationship. So we have never been, or have always been, opposed to Serbia's entry into the EU, and nothing has changed in Serbian radicals. He can't talk about it in any way, to mention someone who's transformed so much, who's changed so much in his political performance, in his public appearance. Simply, from that somotic suit of 50 euros to this one now, the two thousand-euro suit. So much change has changed that it's just not normal. What does he have to say about the SRS? Let him fight to get into NATO because Wolf Jeremic is fighting for something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45044	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45045	I thank the chairman. I suggest, of course, that an amendment on which the debate is being held for all of those reasons that the Government has also delivered to us in its opinion. We are here by who knows which time here is the witness that some MPs simply have a warrant from their boss, whose name, by the way, we must not mention because he sits all day long and counts how many times we mention his name and name, to report after then and to attack foreign investors. Now you see the coincidence. Yesterday, in some letters, in open letters, Dragan Gilas attacked all the living, attacked foreign investors, attacked Zi Jin, and now everyone is bothering them. They're getting in the way of Zi Jin and the Chinese. They're getting in the way of the IMF. They're in the way of the World Bank. They're having trouble with the EU. Everything bothers them now. And first thing this morning, Bosko Obradovic jumps out as a sharp and repeats the same story that Gilas wrote yesterday in his open letters. Do you, the chairman, see what kind of confusion we've come to? Do you see what that unnatural love does, some would say against natural fornication? This one of the main ljuticians became the main leftist, the Marxist became a man. The main Eurofanatic has become a Eurosceptic again. The circus full on the political scene has arisen and for all these reasons I want to invite you to reject this amendment and all the criticisms that have come from their side as completely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45046	Here you go, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45047	Thank you, Chairman. I can understand that there is a certain disturbance in the ruling regime's circles because all public opinion researchers show that the Alliance for Serbia is the second largest political force in Serbia behind the SNS. All the ratings that, just today, look at all the headlines of newspapers that clearly show that the Alliance for Serbia is the largest opposition force currently in Serbia and that it represents one growing force that represents practically one model that we can seriously oppose this government. It's embarrassing for you, it's awkward for you. I can understand that. You'd like to rule for the next 100 years, but it won't be so easy. What's here is the fact that you have so much trouble with the Alliance for Serbia that you can see it here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when there is it and when it's not there. What is the fact that the Alliance for Serbia clearly states that we will no longer subsidise foreign investors as you do by inheriting the policy of Mladjan Dinkic, your adviser in the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose prison suit was shown in time by Aleksandar Vukic in this House of the National Assembly, and then after the election, took him to the government and took him as an adviser and did not send him to prison where he belongs. So, you're the ones who give our budget money to foreign investors, and where is the domestic businessman and domestic farmer at that time? In the Alliance for Serbia's programme, the priority is that domestic businessman and domestic farmer and everything you give to foreign investors we will give to domestic businessmen and farmers. So, all subsidies, tax reliefs, free city-building land and everything else, so to speak, state aid for domestic economic interest to come first and not like you foreigners, foreign interests, profits that are being made abroad and foreign lobbys that rule Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45048	By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45049	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the previous speaker, Mr. Coordinator, says they are the largest political force on Serbia's political scene, right behind the SNS. But he didn't tell us how much it was in the back. I think that gap is pretty big. They remind me, you remember, Mr. Arsic, when you drive on the highway, on that traffic sign -- a 4% slope. Well, they're political forces. So they remind me of that traffic sign. They're very strong, they're very strong, here they are, only they didn't beat us, but they couldn't transfer those 3.5% or 4%, but here they are, they're about to take over power in Serbia. I've already said it several times, we at SNS every day, I don't know how you, Marko, but here, every day I tremble, I'm afraid -- we're going to be beaten by really big political figures, Janko Veselinovic, who is now head of the Alliance for Serbia, rotating, it's like that, you remember Marco, in the Central Committee of the Communists of Yugoslavia and in the Presidency of the SFRY, they had these rotating presidents of the Presidency, and now this Alliance for Serbia has inherited it, and now, Marco, the new president for I guess this month, I don't know if it's at the monthly level of change, is a grand political figure that has a massive and very powerful movement behind it, and that giant leader of political leaders called Senko Radinović. I fear, every day I tremble with fear that Janko Veselinović, Željko Veselinović, Bosko Obradović, Shana Petrovic, etc., here we are, about to be defeated. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia and one part of this new coalition that I find very difficult to define ideologically, because there are all sorts of things -- former resistances, former Democrats, former Latvians, former Tadics, there are people who are open to the NATO Pact, there are people who are, they say, against the NATO Pact, there are people who are open to the European Union, there are those who are against the European Union, there are those who are those who are open to the EU today and they are against the EU tomorrow. So it's a rather colorful political society where it's very difficult, something coordinator nervous, I don't know what's wrong with him, there's no MP, just a man who can handle what he's representing. I would just like to remind, what liberally, what democratically, what a invention and pro-European wing in the Alliance for Serbia, what their co-ordinator used to say about themselves, so, about Dragan Djilas, about Vuk Jeremic, about Dusan Petrovic, about people from the Democratic Party, etc. In the summer of 2000, before the election, Mr. Coordinator is in "New Spark", otherwise the Latvian magazine, the magazine of the National Movement of the ZBOR, this is the front page – this is the poet "Resist" and writes: "American ski". Now you have the text of Mr. Coordinator and see how Mr. Coordinator presented his political programme and the American Ski program. But watch what it says, I say to my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, to pay a little attention, they may need some time when Mr. Coordinator mentions them – he washes himself all the time, I'm not the Latvian, what I have to do with the ZBOR, it's not exactly like that, etc. And, Mr. Coordinator published nicely in 2000, in "New Spark", here, as you can see, a parallel review of ideological aspirations. It says here, "The ZBOR." It doesn't say any folk movement, some courtships, etc. No, I don't. It says, "Currently." It is the official name of the political organisation Dimitri Ljotic, otherwise abbreviations by the Association Fight Organisation of Labour, which was created in 1935. He says the principles of the ZBOR which he advocates, even if he advocated in 2000 – nationalism, religion, spiritual values, organic spirit, monarchism, national culture, I guess these friends of his from the Democratic Party, the Vuk Jeremic party, etc., says – against party democracy, legalist movement, against violent and revolutionary methods in the conquest of power, and threaten us every day that they can't win the elections, but will drive us out of power, as they did on time in 2000. It goes on to say – patriotism, progeny, and then the Resistance says, it is this American narrow, which are their ideological values – analism, unfaith, materialism, individualism, without a clear attitude, multiculturality, for party democracy, revolutionary movement, Western philanthropy, idolatry towards the West and foreign service. To this extent, Mr. Coordinator genetically modified that everything he represented in 2000, now all the opposite represented in 2018. Now Mr. Coordinator is an international, no longer talking about religion, the great materialist has become, he loves money very much, he loves expensive suits, though, he won't pay for them himself, so his political organization pays for them. This is very important – without a clear attitude. If anyone in Serbia can answer my question – what is the programme orientation of the Alliance for Serbia, except – we hate Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, I will give him whatever he wants. So this is a typical example of genetic modification of political ideology, without a clear attitude. They don't have any attitude about anything. They only know what they are against -- against Alexander Vukic and against the Serbian Progressive Party. When you ask them, and what would you do with the Serbian economy, and what would you do with Kosovo and Metohija, and what would you do with education, and what would you do with criminals who robbed Serbia, and what would you do with criminals who were led by the bankruptcy mafia, and Mr. Coordinator was his coalition partner in the Belgrade elections, they have no answer. He became a man advocate of party democracy. Now his mouth is full of democracy. In 2000, he represented Ljotic's position that political parties are the greatest evil, and now, of course, he has become a great advocate for party democracy. Next, he became a great revolutionary. In 2000 he fought against the revolution, now he became a great revolutionist. Now one of his coalition partners, this is what the people of Serbia should know, Vladimir Gajic, otherwise the prominent official of this Jeremic, the People's Party, says – we, Alexander Vukic, cannot win the elections, because he has the support of 60%, as he said – functionally illiterate citizens. So – we cannot win the election, we can only win power in Serbia if, as on 5 October 2000, we take the poles in hand and force them out of power. Of course, we're so capable we can't do it without foreign help. So, we call for the help of our Western friends, all of us will fulfill what they ask of us, only to enable us to come to power without a choice. It's a short-term political platform represented by Mr. Coordinator. Something's not working, I can see that his MP Corps has fallen apart, they're not in the Assembly, but it's good that the citizens of Serbia know who it is who represents themselves as an alternative to the SNS. So, this is Mr. Coordinator, this is Balša Bozovic, Željko Veselinović, Janko Veseinović, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Shane Petrovic, this is Saša Radulović, his coalition partner in the Belgrade elections. It is an alternative offered to Serbian citizens. So, Serbia's ambition, they say, will draw Dragan Djilas, Shana Petrovic, Vuk Jeremic from the economic and political sink. These are the people who are the richest, not in Serbia, in the region, in Europe, among the richest people in the world, whose wealth is measured by millions of euros, who have privatised absolutely everything in Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic was absolutely right, when he said about Milosevic the other day, whatever he was, there was some economic substance left on the basis of which the state could live. There's nothing left behind. There's no stone left on the stone. Now those behind whom there is no stone left on the stone to recover us, to heal us, to lift up our Serbia. Maybe they will. Just, Mr. Coordinator, you have to win the election, no more October 5th, no more violence on the streets. Serbia is a well-organized state. This Central Committee, which you keep mentioning, can unite as many left and right, both for the EU and the EU, and for the NATO Pact, and against the NATO Pact, and for Ljotic and against Ljotic, both of these and such. Some Central Committee has united you, you haven't spontaneously met, some Central Committee has united you. But tell your Central Committee that October 5th in Serbia is no more. The people can tell us they're not happy with our policy, but there's no more violent shift of power. Remember that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45050	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45051	Thank you, after an hour, thank you. As someone who deals with agriculture, I wanted to talk about modification. By 2013, such a requirement was not about the ban on genetically modified organisms. Just so you know, there are no medications without them. Just so you know, if you completely ban them, certain drugs and certain productions won't be. But, look at the wonders, those who cooperate and who are in the opposition bloc with the former regime have risen against liberalisation. Is that a modification? The man who received from Dusan Petrovic 62,000 euros by 2013, did not say about genetically modified organisms. He didn't say a word. Today, about it, they're just making noise. Is that a modification? A man who didn't see the folk costume until he disguised himself and entered the congregation. So, which he had never worn before, he is now wearing it to try to represent himself as a Serb host. Is that a modification? When Tito's youngest councilman suddenly becomes a nationalist and enters a nationalist organization. Is that a modification? Of course. And then so modified organisms lead to the fight against modification. But they forgot that Ivana Dulic Markovic, even during her term of office, imported 20,000 tonnes of genetically modified her, or shotguns, and then another 200,000 tonnes and explained that there was no need to rebel because it was the first, the first tranche was a donation. The first contingent was a donation. Is that a modification? Is it against liberalisation that is with those who signed the CEPTA and the SAA agreement? Now he would ban imports, this one, and in doing so, he sits with those who signed the SAA, initialled and signed. Is someone, when Ivana Dulic Markovic, must have been a minor, someone was a professor of the Faculty of Agriculture, but not to sound during Dusan Petrovic and during Ivana Dulic Markovic, about the import of 95% of the soybeans market in Serbia was covered by GMOs. Once that gene moves, scientists say it's difficult for you to cure. They didn't mind it, it was important for them to get 50,000 euros from Kolubara, 60,000 from the start of the project, and they kept quiet. Today, they broke up over GMOs, and during Ivana Dulic Markovic and Dusan Petrovic, you were able to import them all, and you were not allowed to sow them. Look at the wonders, farmers know that the offerings and genetically modified soybeans are higher. These crops were destroyed, but there was no ban on the imports of GMO soybeans. So it can be introduced, but it can't be produced. I believe that this intensity of the ban on cultivation of GMOs continues. Who does that? Someone who was against "Storm" and hangs out with Ivan Pernar, who says Serbs have expelled themselves. Someone who advocates a comprehensive Serbia and makes deals with Bulgaria's fascist attack, which seeks a good deal of our territory, seems to be looking for Vranje. Who could that genetically modified organism be? Well, it could be whoever's against the tycoon, and he's making a deal with Gilas. A genetically modified organism can also be one who is against Americans, and Scott is organising additional elections for him to enter parliament. And it can be called GMOs. It may also be one who is allegedly against jeopardizing our interests and security, but in doing so, he's working with Brian Martin and the Air Force attaché of the American Embassy, there are notes about it. It can be modified and one that says it's an Orthodox organization, that it's against the Masons, and then it's found to be a pro-massion organization in between. He who is against the Masons, Ljoticvac, who is for education and literacy, and says Dositej Obradovic and Vuk Karadzic are ungodly peoples. Probably that he should have introduced literacy in Serbia, when these godless peoples are, so there are no alphabets, there's no Bucharests, there's no wolf, there's nothing, they're simply godless peoples, so their work needs to be removed. But someone who is against the Mason, I guess because of Ljotic, and has repeated it here several times, and then says the great master of the women's lodge in Serbia, writes to the third-degree master, who, of course, is in that Latvian organization, and writes to her like this -- and let you know that this M.J. has to get into that parliament now, otherwise I'm going to freak out, and that she can't do it on her own, and that she has to consult with us, and we do everything to make it so, because that's her moment. So that's what the Masons say. Excuse me, dear colleagues, it's not just the Americans and Scott who pushed this parliamentary group into parliament, there's also the Masons, and they're the sausages against the Masons. Isn't that some kind of political modification and that, and it reports -- we have a board of directors at 12 o'clock, Dveri, where I was seen as a parliamentary post, and when Professor Jasmina Vujic, goes back to her America, I'm the only one left at the top, I have to defend it now, it solves all my problems, let's get back to you on Thursday mandatory, etc. Should I read on, reporting on the database? To give them passwords on the database, but you know what database she's reporting to the Masons? About the database relating to banks, financial services, on local self-government bases, because the Masons are asking for a database run by "Ninamedia", which refers to republican authorities, public enterprises, local businesses, local authorities. She gives them the password on the database. It's very dangerous for the security of the state. These are genetically modified organisms that Marko Parezanovic was talking about, politically modified organisms that threaten the country's security. Then they come and say, "I came from the farm." Yes, I did, and I came from the farm this morning. I'm proud of the farm. So, no problem at all. They say, "I drive the auditions." Of course, used with 230 grand. I've been driving it since 1997, I've been driving the audiences, I've been buying the used ones all the time. I'm buying. While I was building an industrial zone in Indjia, the masseuse organized by My Indjia, which was registered at its address, received a lot of money from Jesic. To knock me down, when I built an industrial zone, a cigarette factory, infrastructure, telecommunications, electricity, etc. To bring me down, and to resell land in India, the agricultural cooperatives "Streme" so that they could resell it and fill their pockets. I don't need Jesic and the Masons to buy a car. My car will buy my farm, my old dad, me, my wife, my work, and now I have tractors, machinery, etc., I want to work. (Maria Janjušević: And who gave you the tractor? Ma, you can throw, I hope, at the Mason's, next to the skull, that you have agreed that it can be thrown on black sheets, etc., with sixers, stone, skulls, that's where you're used to. I believe that the discipline you had there, and I know that you had it, you have to pass it on here so you don't throw it away. (Maria Janjušević: I never participated. ) You participated in my shift in the water management building, Mr. Martinović knows that, right after the radicals were cleaned up in Ruma. I was cleaned up, even though I built an industrial zone in India. Unemployment dropped to 5-6%. I did it. She, she didn't do anything. For the Masons she did everything, the files, the left, the right, it's called modified organisms, that's what they're to say – she needs a sword to sting for the castle. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Where does a woman in the Masons come from? · Global Voices )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45052	The People's MP, Bosko Obradovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45053	Thank you, Chairman. I can truly understand that these changes on the Serbian political scene where the Socialist Party of Serbia is no longer the other political force behind the Serbian Progressive Party, but it is the Alliance for Serbia, that we get a serious opposition bloc that can oppose this government, irritates power, and in some way causes disturbance in the ranks of government. That's understandable. As it is understandable for citizens that they have no place to hear about the Alliance for Serbia, the largest opposition bloc has been formed in the last 15 years, because more than half a year, no opposition leader can host on any Belgrade television with a national frequency on any political show, believe it or not. It is a democracy for you to understand the Serbian Progressive Party, a ban on television hosting any opposition leader for seven or eight months on all Belgrade televisions. That is why Serbian citizens have not yet heard that the Alliance for Serbia has been formed, and we are already the second political force behind the Serbian Progressive Party and far above, double above the Socialist Party of Serbia and that is the point of the story. When Serbian citizens hear that the largest opposition bloc has been formed in the last 15 years, that it makes it 10 political organisations of founders, that we have come out with the programme platform in 30 points, that we are there for the respect of the Constitution of Serbia, for the respect of Resolution 1244, against any signing of any legally binding agreement that would recognise an independent Kosovo, or as Aleksandar Vucic wishes, made it possible for Kosovo membership in the United Nations, that we are against any referendum on Kosovo and Metohija, to seek out a special prosecutor for high crime at the top of the government, to seek a law on the origin of all politicians and tycoon's property since 1990s, then Serbian citizens would hear even more and believe in the Alliance for Serbia, as an alternative to this authority and the hope of all opposition voters that there can finally be political changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45054	Comrade Mihajlovich, do you want a replica? First, a colleague, Martinovic, is entitled to a replica, then a colleague, Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45055	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here, very briefly. So in 2001, Mr. Coordinator republished an article in Ljotic's "New Iskri". This is the cover of "New Sparks". This must be the Baja Duck, representing the United States and addressing some of the DOS leaders. This one here is Zoran Djindjic, who says – don't worry, we'll fix everything. I don't know what it is, some Paja Patak here, Raja, Paja, Gaia, what they're called, so anyway, here's Zoran Djindjic. They are in a coalition with Zoran Djindjic's party today. Today, they are in a coalition with those who have conducted all these robbery privatisations in Serbia. They are the ones who ruined everything that was healthy in the Serbian economy. Says Mr. Coordinator -- citizens of Serbia cannot know there is a Alliance for Serbia. Well, people don't get off this American TV N1. Every day of God's day, whenever you turn on the N1, it is either the coordinator of the morning program or Gilas is on the morning program or Vuk Jeremic is or is this Sergei Trifunović, who in time wore a T-shirt with the image of Jovan Divjak, the general of Bosnia and Herzegovina's army who is responsible for killing JNA soldiers in Dobrovoljačka Street in Sarajevo in 1992. Here's to you today leader Dragan Gilas in "Today", take "Time", take NIN, take any newspaper today in Serbia, from every media, electronic, printed, these Alliance for Serbia leaders come out. Then he says, "We're in a media blockade."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45056	Bring it to the end, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45057	No, we from SNS are in a media blockade, because given the support we have with Serbian citizens, so we should be guests every day on all televisions with national frequencies, not those that can't cross 3%.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45058	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The right to a replica has a colleague, Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45059	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, firstly, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would certainly say that this amendment should not be accepted...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45060	Comrade Mihajlovic, you have been given the right to a replica, not to speak according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45061	Yes, but that's how I started, please let me. I'm an authorised representative and I can make the approach I want and who can, and I'm talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45062	All right, but you only have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45063	So what's under discussion about this amendment comes out of the context of the law. It certainly needs to be treated, but in some other laws, and it's not on the agenda today. Secondly, what I want to say about the legislator of this law, and since this is about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, it would be desirable to present arguments here by language and way of expression that does not pollute the mental sphere of the healthy environment. And how we should talk and how we should be treated here in Parliament, we can see, and above all, the legislator can see, from Mr. Minister, who in one polite and cultural way makes arguments. Secondly, such a way of political calculations and expressions stems, I think, from the political disorientation of this political group and the parliamentary group. Their amplitude of political movement goes very broadly, from the far right and opponents of the European Union to the Eurofil on the other side, so I certainly think it is difficult to understand the political attitude of people acting in this way. Hence, you are often presented with various improvisations and political facts, so with cheap demagogy you are false about some abuses of finance that are meant to be aimed at the sphere of environmental protection, which has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45064	Bring the end, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45065	So, we as an SPS, I am a minister, and I am sure the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going towards one goal to institutionalise an independent green fund and that all the funds that are meant to go precisely to protect the environment and that is imperative.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45066	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45067	In one of his address, Mr. Martinovic made a good observation of Boško Obradovic compared to his Latvian biography and what he really did in his call politics was and remained, but he made only one failure and therefore I answered, when he said that, behold, he warned his colleagues from the SRS that they could listen to what he was saying, that they would eventually use it if there was a need for it. I just want for the sake of the public and for the truth to remind Dr Vojislav Seselj, the first in Serbia, to expose Boško Obradovic as Ljoticevic. The first presented the facts and, of course, all that Bosko Obradovic published in the "New Spark" and his stance on the existence of political parties, on the practical abolition of democracy, the abolition of elections, that's what Bosko Obradovic stood for during that period while wearing that 50-euro suit. In the meantime, he changed whether it goes with these expensive suits, but Ljotic's is left in him, and it simply can't change, and he's never even given up on Ljotic's skills, so sometimes he tries to introduce himself as something different, and I don't know only how this NATO lobbyist, the open NATO lobbyist, Vuk Jeremic, will go through a lot of things, though they can mix there. Just to remind you, let me finish, this debate today has actually started with the frustration of Bosko Obradovic because he has been a national MP for more than two years and has not learned to write amendments. His amendments were denied, and then he went into another story entirely. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45068	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of Parliament Parliament of Guinea-Bissau, who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Please give a round of applause to our esteemed guests. We'll continue with further work. Right on line, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45069	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I can understand that the SRS, since it must not attack Alexander Vukic, for two and a half years now publicly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, attacks colleagues from the opposition, if they are at all opposition, since they obviously have a direct agreement on not attacking Alexander Vukic personally and that the nature of the relationship between Vojislav Seselj and Aleksandr Vukic obviously has a certain monetary compensation for the silence of the SRS and its MPs here at the House of National Assembly, because in two and a half years I don't remember anyone here publicly calling Alexander Vukic for the betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija, for destroying this country or for any other thing that was badly done by Alexander Vukic. So, the thunderous silence of the SRS for two and a half years that the name Alexander Vukic must not be mentioned in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, then tell me what kind of opposition you are if you cannot attack the most important and powerful political figure in Serbia. It is easy to attack Boško Obradovica, it is a great heroism of the SRS. Let's go, Mrs. Radeta, to mention Alexander Vukic, his brother, his godmothers, their thieving, their crime, and everything they do in this country. Shut up, Mrs Radet, and keep your mouth shut by listening and faithfully serving Vojislav Seselj and Aleksandra Vukic. (SRS's emissaries keep earning. So, it's not correct, it's not principled, it's hypocritical to attack colleagues from the opposition, if you're even an opposition. If you're so strong, attack Alexander Vukic, tell the truth about this power if it's already so strong courage on your part. It's easy to attack Bosko Obradovic. Attack once for these two and a half years, Alexander Vukic. Here, and now I can't speak from the representatives of the SRS, because their boss, Alexander Vukitch, cannot be attacked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45070	A colleague of Filipovic's! I'm asking my colleagues to die. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, you've heard from Mr. Coordinator what is the essence of their understanding of politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45072	Please, tell the member who's been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45073	Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. So now you could hear from Mr. Coordinator how they imagine political action and what the notion of opposition is for them. He says you have to mention Alexander Vukic, you have to mention his brother, you have to crucify him on the cross of children, father, mother, his family, and then you're a real opposition, thus proving your opposition function. It's a shame. It's a shame and a shame. I don't know if colleagues on this other side who represent themselves as Democrats, as Europeans, agree with such a definition of the opposition and with such a policy definition, that the opposition in Serbia only if you hit on Vukic, his brother, his son, his father, his mother and so on. They keep doing it. Please, Mr. Arsic, we are political rivals here, but I am not a political rival with the father of Mr. Coordinator, nor with the father of Vuk Jeremic, nor with anyone's brother, nor with anyone's wife, nor with any child. So I'm a political rival and we're all political rivals here with colleagues sitting in the National Assembly. I'm begging you... (Miljan Damjanovic: Sit down, Martinovic, don't talk anymore.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45074	Comrade Damjanovic, will you let my colleague Martinovic finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45075	Don't be angry, I was in the SRS, he was working on a photocopier machine, and now he's become a folk MP. (Miljan Damjanovic: Yes, but I stayed, and you dropped out.) So, I ask you, Mr. Arsic, that you no longer allow this kind of thing. So, mentioning the brother of the President of the Republic or any member of the family is unacceptable in the National Assembly. None of us members of the SNS and MPs of the ruling coalition mentioned any member of the so-called family. Alliance for Serbia. If we go with that, and we can do that, if you let us do that, then we'll fight back the same way they do. Then we will also mention what the father of the coordinator and what someone's brother is doing and what someone's wife is doing, and how companies are transferred from husband to wife, and how certain financial transactions are carried out with the "of Shore" company, but we will go too far. I ask you, Mr Arsic, that the National Assembly remain a place for the debate of those who are representatives of the people, those who are MPs, without allowing insult to any family, especially the families of the President of the Republic, a man who has received the convincing support of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45076	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45077	It was interesting to listen when that fascism spoke out of Ljotic, which he obviously thinks attacking political opponents means acting in the fascist way he's acting. The public knows that the SRS is the most serious opposition party and the strongest in parliament and that we are very serious about this Parliament's proposals to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to talk about this. We are the only ones who have asked specifically for the prime minister to resolve as many as five ministers with concrete reasons why he should do so. Of course, when someone doesn't know he's acting human, when he's talking out of someone's anger and fascism, then he's completely blinded and thinks it's enough to say he's a thief, that he's a criminal and then he's there as some serious opposition. But Bosko Obradovic did not answer a few things to the public – where are the money from Hilandar? Is there a greater sin than being a Orthodox and stealing a Hilandar? Where's the money from the election campaign? How is it possible for someone in the election campaign to give several hundred thousand euros to an electrician workshop? What was an electrician doing to him in the campaign? Did he turn it on to electricity? He gave his lawyer several hundred thousand, and he's got lawyers in the party. What kind of legal services did they need to engage in during the campaign? So, we are calling both the Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Agency, we are talking about it in public, the state's money is not only the ones that can steal from ministers, the state's money is also the ones that get political parties and which have to be strictly used, I end up with Arsic, who have to be used exclusively for the election campaign, which does not mean expensive suits for the bearers of the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45078	Thank you. Now in accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45079	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on with our work. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? Srjan Nogo has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45080	Mr. Minister, you have in principle pointed out a few things correctly during the debate. First, the importance of the environment, its impact on human health, interresorship with the agriculture ministries, with energy. And you said also one important thing, which is that the EU accession process is probably the most financially difficult and the biggest expenditures are precisely in the field of ecology, some 15 billion that we have minimally to invest in ecology. I therefore suggested that this law be changed and called – the law on the protection of the environment and the preservation of natural goods of special value from destruction because of tycoon-financial interests. We're witnessing that money in this country is doing everything. All our drinking water sources have been sold before you. Agricultural land was sold and sold today. Here, we are witnessing that the PKK, the largest agricultural giant, is probably in this part of Europe, recently estranged by a shameful 65 euros per hectare. They're selling the whole river now. So, we, look out, sold drinking water sources, and now we sell whole river streams, and that's trend in Serbia as well as in the surrounding countries. I remind you that in this Assembly on Thursday, you too said that the mini-hydroelectric horrors, that when you left, you saw and found horrors and that they were extremely disrupting biodiversity, and that their contribution to the supply of electricity was practically minimal. An analysis of all Balkan mini-hydroelectric power plants, some 381 in the last 15 years, with 3% of electricity involved in the total number of electricity generated by hydro potentials. When we look at 21% of Serbia's electricity generated by hydro potentials, 79% from the thermal power plant, it is clear that mini-hydroelectric power plants participate with less than 1% in Serbia's total electricity. But that's where we come into these tycoon-financial interests. Some huge money gets through a mini-hydropower plant, although it has no contribution to Serbia's energy system, does not contribute to reducing pollution, but it destroys the natural environment. People, we're going to need agricultural land, we're going to need drinking water sources, we're going to need rivers and river streams. Our grandfather's gonna need it. On the side now we here in the Assembly what we think and how we deal with politics, so our children won't be politicians. Well, they need to stay with those rivers, these springs of water and those river streams. So we need to make it clear in the law that we are to protect everything that affects our quality of life and enables us to survive and live in these areas of financial and tycoon interest at all. If you as Minister of Ecology are unable to protect what you do. You're not able to protect any river currents in protected goods where mini-hydroelectrics are not supposed to be built, what are we supposed to do? But why am I still saying this? Because we've been witnessing one of the best things that's happened in this country for the last few years. The action "Let's defend the Old Mountain Rivers" and in the self-organization of the people and these people is the best thing I've seen and a big slap on everyone who deals with politics in Serbia. These people just got organized and what are they doing? They rip pipes, they break dams. So, they took the protection against the illegal treatment that the state had made possible certain financial and tycoon interests and took their own hands to fight for the good of their own and their children. Well done. It's not just in the Old Mountain, we've had protests in Bruce, we've had protests in Lima before. Here are the protests in Macedonia today, Montenegro. So people understood the danger and their great affection to the floor by me as a MP, because they showed that it still makes a lot of sense if we fight and that we can protect ourselves. From politicians I do not believe will experience any support, because very powerful people stand behind the mini-hydropower plants, and Zarko Zecevic and Milija Babovic, and here we mentioned Nikola Petrovic, the first godfather of President Aleksandar Vukic, the first godfather of Serbia. I am sorry that Minister Loncar is not here, because he felt invited to defend his partner and his pal, from the same clan to the SNS, to repeat here what he said Thursday – that these mini-hydropower plants started building on Vlasina in 2010 at the time of Boris Tadic's government. And, right, desolation. We saw pictures of Lake Vlassin, which completely dried up, of what the "Eco Energo Group" and their mini-hydropower plants did to him. But how did they get it? Because no one mentions the other name of best man Nikola Petrovic and older partners Nikola Petrovic, Nenada Kovaca, called Nash Roming. Because I don't know that there's a political party in Serbia and a parliamentary group in this session that isn't funded, and today it's funded, by that same Nenad Kovac, called Nash Roming. That's why you won't be able to hear any support action to stop their reckless interest, because they robbed everything. In the end, they want to steal our rivers. But the citizens won't take it very long and make sure the people end up here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45081	Thank you. According to the amendment, Snezana Paunovic has the word, and then Vladimir Orlic, the replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45082	Dear President, that I would not now sound like some crazy woman who has lost herself in time and space, I note that my application under the amendment to speak was still on the last amendment. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, reading your explanation for, I reiterate, the previous amendment, because, as I would say, I tried to avoid the possibility and the right to raise the Rules of Procedure six times, rather than try to wait my turn and talk about the amendment, because it is his concern, so now it sounds pretty stupid what I'm going to say, because in the post-fest, he's the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45083	My colleague, just one explanation, I apologize. A colleague, Arsic, took a break in accordance with Article 112. I kept working. No complaints by amendment, no replication, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing our work. I don't know what's not clear. So we're doing our job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Finish it. No one's defending anything. Say whatever you want. Just so you know, we stick to the Rules of Procedure, nothing more, especially me who continued to hold the session after you gave the break. Just so we understand each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45084	Besides explaining to me that I don't know the Rules of Procedure, that's how I understand you, you've further dissipated my report, but thank you anyway. Dear Minister, I appeal to you, and that was the subject that made me come forward before the break, to consider all these proposed amendments one more time. At the beginning, I accepted the government's view that amendments were unnecessary and were not in line with the Constitution, or whatever, every explanation was rational. However, listening to the controversy, I simply think that perhaps you were wrong. Genetically modified forms exist. They may need to be protected. I don't need to react, and I'm really not going to react to the SPS, because it just doesn't matter if you mention it, it's important from who. It responds accordingly. That's why I don't think there's any reason to react. But I think as a responsible man, the truth is, it's not in your jurisdiction to deal with such forms, when we look back and realize that it's an alliance for things and nothing, we hear anything, it doesn't mean anything, except that we're the first, second, third, above, stronger than the SPS, I understand. I understand it's October 9th. I understand that we live in an illusion. I understand that socialists are a motive. Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic explained a long time ago that she is not responding to complexes caused by something you would like to be. It's a right every time it's worth less. But I ask you, as part of the government, that you might consider whether these forms of alliance, whatever their names are, should be left to function and show how much they are worthless or perhaps abolished by law and some decree, as they suggest, however masochistic they act on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45085	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have not raised the Rules of Procedure. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45086	Thank you. I don't blame you, Mr. Chairman, for this confusion that has arisen, or other MPs, because after what was heard just now, which is a real explosion of confusion, it couldn't have gone any better. Of course, I'm thinking about that exhibition that, like a million times so far, has been again some strange mix of complete disinformation from already what content, from that magazine "Tabloid", which is literally what it's called, it's about that newspaper Milovan Brkić, which is the most disgusting thing a man can think of to write about Alexander Vukic, about the people of SNS, about his family and their families. So we've heard it from the same address in this room many times, here again today, and I believe we'll do it many more times. Total confusion, therefore, and in that system of political attitudes and ideas, the questions that are being asked here, we now have questions as to why something was happening, they say, in 2010 at the time of Boris Tadic. Now we need to answer, not Boris Tadic, personally, and not that he's not in a position. He meets so much and he hangs out, you remember, for example. only in the case where they walked together in the Square of the Republic, in those white shirts, hugging and kissing. Why don't they ask him about anything they want to know about 2010 and Boris Tadic? Why don't they ask Dragan Gilas? I hear qualifications here - tycoon. Otherwise, be careful, he wants Dragan Gilas to sue anyone who calls him that. I don't know if you followed that. He's decided to lead anyone who says he's a tycoon. When you say tycoon, then surely, when it comes to you, you mean Dragan Gilas. In 2013, this Gilasov coordinator, I guess today is the coordinator, is he, if I'm wrong yesterday, wasn't, was the day before yesterday, now I don't know what is today, and this coordinator tells Dragan Gilas that he is the tycoon media mogul. Imagine. I'm sure he'll be sued for this, and so will you for mentioning the tycoons, and we all know you're referring to Gilas. The complete confusion, Mr. Chairman, is seen, among other things, that when those who had such a beautiful opinion about Dragan Gilas were resolved, they now join him, accept him as their hero and savior. This confusing man who's had this confusion done for a while has fenced himself. He voted against, I end up, and said—these others can, because they are not principled, they have issued the views of our organization, I am not. Here, today, it looks like he took it as a lifeguard, too, so from that confusion and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45087	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45088	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would point to Article 27. You are definitely the one who should apply this Rules of Procedure and take care of order in the session and dignity of the National Assembly, and you have indeed had one scandalous example of a statement by the MP from the SPS, who, if you did not hear it correctly, I will ask you again, to ban the Alliance for Serbia, as the largest political opposition group in Serbia right now. Believe it or not, we have received a proposal from the MP from the SPS minister present here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to consider a ban on the Alliance for Serbia at the government. Look, it's something you had to stop at the moment, warn yourself, that the measures against freedom of thought and speech, political organisation and association of political organisations in opposition alliances are simply not and have nothing to do with modern democracy and other human rights. I can understand that there are barely two, three MPs from the SPS, although their minister is here today, although the bill comes from the ministry, headed by the SPS minister. It's a disgrace and a disgrace to the SPS itself. There are twice as many opposition MPs from the ranks of the Serbian Dvora Movement dealing with the topic of environmental protection at this session, rather than with the proposing. That's less important than what I'm warning you about. So no one can ask you to ban any political organisation registered in the Republic of Serbia, or associations, different political organisations, especially when it comes to the opposition. We have here, please, heard the request of the MP of the SPS to ban the Alliance for Serbia, as Serbia's largest opposition political organisation today. I'm asking you to respond in the future and ask for some kind of denial or apology, because this is a really big political scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45089	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Of course, no one at any moment, I mean, of the presidents, or anyone in this room, questions the basic categories and postulates of the constitutional, therefore union, party or any other association. That's not how I understood a colleague who spoke before you, of course, so I can only ask you if you want the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? Yeah. Thank you very much. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45090	Since there have been obvious abuses of replication, Mr. Chairman, I understand that you have been leading this session with a lot of tolerance, but I think these things should be reacted to, if for nothing else, because of some standards that we have to stick to. Three says what you could do. I call upon you the same archaic that you adopt and apply consistently to all, both what happened earlier and to this exhibit of mine and every other one. So if it's replicated, I'm asking you to take care of who's talking, what's he saying. I think it's unacceptable to talk about bans here by those who officially advocate the ban on political opponents, right? Is it in that tycoon, jilasian, Latvian, as they are already called, a conglomerate of one of the main things they advocate to ban political action for those they do not love? Yes, it is. Is this what their coordinator was talking about? Yes, it is. Is he in favor of the opposite things now? I think it's inconclusive and it has to be responded to. It's still being called, imagine what, to democracy, to democratic values. The man who, we've read it, and there's more, there's as much as you want, has pleaded about this democracy in Latvia's "New Sparks", as a container, as the greatest filth that civilization has ever brought, as the worst in this world, and now says, "He cares about democratic standards and democratic values." Speaking of them and their bans, they also advocate banning the work of media institutions and houses to withdraw licenses. When we talk about the democratic principles they stand for, that includes coming to power across the street, is that right, and calls for coup, lynch, to arrest the elected president of the Republic, is that right? All of these are things that we have to react to first and first determine before we enter any debate with them as much as they advocate freedoms and which ones exactly. After all, if I'm talking about any standard, I've never heard of it, not once, not a single time, not in half a word of one, that these people have set themselves according to the scandalous performance of that Zeljko Veseinović. I can only conclude, when they answer, we talk to Zeljko Veselinović. If Zeljko Veselinovic wants to talk about dignity, rights and freedoms, you should adequately characterize it at the very beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45091	Thank you, colleague Orlic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I would agree and, as soon as possible, my colleague Martinovic spoke about us being here to debate, exchange our political ideas, and once again, as far as possible, I call on all the MPs not to talk about the lynch, the revolution, not to mention each other's families, or anyone else, but to focus on this debate. I'm really asking you, because we can definitely do that. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45092	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 109. I think it would be worth one warning to give to the MP who spoke before me, because he constantly violates Article 109, or you violate him, because you do not apply the possibility to warn him, directly address him, uses offensive expressions – fascists, LJotics and spend all day quoting articles from "New Sparks". I understand his fascination. Here's the "New Sparks" stand, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Vukic, photo. So he continues that tradition, so he'd probably honor us something, but there's no reason for him to insult it, because then I think he's insulting himself. Please, upstairs "New Spark", Mr. Seselj, Mr. Vukic and, please, the picture speaks more than words, so I have no intention of speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45093	I don't understand how I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have abused now the pay phone to replicate, although I have appealed, you know well, and to you to simply proceed with the debate and to continue to discuss this topic. We've got a lot on our hands now for breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45094	Completely, but completely in the spirit of what I was telling you earlier, Mr. Chairman, I continue to call for those high standards and those precise arches to be applied. Article 104 this time, since that member defines the right to reply. That was before, but not according to what that member prescribed. It was, therefore, past the business provisions. So apply them even now, freely, as you did before and the previous several times. He felt, Mr. Vesovic, the need to address me. I understand that. To get to know, indeed, no pleasant truths about his great leader all day, I believe he's uncomfortable. I believe he reveals a lot today for the first time. Why the first time? An honest man, if he knew these things, wouldn't be sitting next to one, wouldn't spend a second next to one. I am convinced that, Mr. Vesovic, these things, these scandalous attitudes of Bosko Obradovic hears for the first time and I believe he is shocked. As far as his needs are concerned, I understood that. As far as content is concerned, I don't understand. Last time I told him nice, he'd go out front before the booth was no big deal. That's how I got in front of the Dwyer stand, just to show how funny that looks. I don't know if you took a picture of me back then, but that's why I didn't become a fan of the Dwri, nor do I advocate their politics and their values. So, so much for content itself. You say Ljotic is an offensive thing. The mention of Ljotic is offensive. Then why does Bosko Obradovic think it is the most beautiful thing in the world, that it is the highest possible value in the world. You know what he says? What is needed by political practice, what will the Serbian people save? Here he says in his text from this "New spark", which you have discovered today, Mr Vesovic -- there should be no chance to witness the new state of political awareness in the Serbian people and to complement the political principles and guidelines of Zbor and Dimitri LJotic, etc., all the nicest about them and the subject. So because of Dimitria LJotic, they are for your leader, and you didn't know it until today, the most beautiful possible value in this world. If that's what you're offended about, I think, Mr. Vesovic, it might be a good time to move aside. If you didn't do it for Zeljko Veselinović, just because of this inconvenience you're feeling today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45095	Thank you very much. It's full of leaves. In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a three-minute break, because it's really full of lists and I don't think we're going to be able to keep working in this constellation at all. I urge, please, that we continue our work on a collegiate basis and involve the minister in our work to discuss matters that are on our agenda. Thank you in advance. Thank you for understanding. So, all colleagues. We can make a round table and we can discuss ideological differences and ideologies. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We continue our work, dear colleagues. At the title of the Amendment Law, National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45097	I thank the chairman. I suggested that the title, in fact, the name of this law be changed and that the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the protection of the environment and the removal of adverse effects on human health and the environment. Unfortunately, the proposal was not accepted and the government of the Republic of Serbia missed another opportunity to at least declare that it really matters to her how Serbian citizens live, their health security, the safety of our environment. I don't think there's a better time to talk about the consequences of NATO bombing at a time when not far from Belgrade walks and tops Stoltenberg who came to explain how they bombed us for our sake. That's a good thing we, unfortunately, feel now that our children are being treated for cancer, as a consequence of NATO bombing. I sincerely hope that this ride, that we've been discussing only one amendment for three hours, wasn't designed just so we don't talk about two key things right now, in this country, and that's NATO as the enemy of Serbia who's trying to drag us in and definitely take us away from KIM, where I come to the key issue. If we're talking about the alliance, let me tell you, the alliance is primarily aimed at preventing the definitive surrender of KIM. In that sense, I'd like to remind you of the session of the previous one, not this one...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45098	My colleague Janjušević, what does it matter now and the alliance and your amendment and this subject have to do with KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45099	Are you gonna make up for my time or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45100	Imagine if you told me every day what anyone does for that thing and for KIM and you gave yourself the right to speak so uglyly on the terms of your amendment. I don't think that's right for you. Go on, speak according to the amendment. The minister is very ready to respond, to participate and to have this debate on one dignified level, as it is for us. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45101	Okay, I would really like the minister to tell us how many children have been affected by cancer and does the state of Serbia even deal with what is the reason for so much increased disease, the number of diseases in the state of Serbia, and so can we, just like that, on KIM territory? Would it be great if we explored it there? But you didn't let me finish, that Minister Djordjevic first started here the story of the alliance, and President Maja Gojkovic interrupted him and decededly said that there is no alliance here and there are no MPs here, so I urge you to stop humiliating... (President: counterpart Janjušević, again now mentions the president of the Assembly which is not... )......................................................................................................... That woman. You're not giving her a quorum. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45102	... Right here. I can give you one more chance to continue to thank you and the MPs of your political party for not reporting and for contributing to continue this session in one good and proper way, but please do not abuse it and force me to apply some other measure from the Rules of Procedure, which I do not want to apply to anyone, to anyone, to the opposition, to the MPs. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45103	I thank the chairman. I'll say it again. I suggest that this law is also called a law that will remove the adverse consequences of human health, and these consequences are primarily the consequences of NATO bombing. I call on the minister to take special care of children's health in Serbia and thank you for speaking openly and sincerely about children's illness in Serbia from cancer and not talking about the elderly. I must add, that Stoltenberg, or anyone from NATO, is not welcome in Serbia if they will explain that we have been bombed for our own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45104	Thank you very much. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, Dr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45105	Thank you, Chairman. The minister is now meeting with his associates, with the whole diapazon of different titles of the law that he and his ministry have proposed, and the reason for all the proposals being rejected is that the amendment is not accepted because the name of the law is not the subject of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. So, I suggested that the law is still called – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Health of Citizens. It is necessary and we agreed that the other day, Minister, that everyone cares about the environment being protected, not for its own sake, that it be protected for the sake of citizens' health. This is such a meaningful amendment proposal that I don't know which one of our colleagues who suggested, my colleagues who suggested it would be better. But then we came to what you wanted before or you didn't want to say and you said, "Let's color everything with politics." Let's paint the ministers. Of all the amendments, do you know how many amendments have been accepted? Three. You know who suggested that? By chance, everyone from your political option. Am I supposed to think that these three proposings are smarter than the other 397, or is that a little bit of politics? If there is something that is thought for and that is, I am also telling you as a health care worker, we need to better understand the importance of environmentalism, the importance of environmental protection, to bring it to citizens' health, and therefore, in every amendment, add the sentence "and the health of citizens". You believe that people will understand better, you believe that they will accept it more easily, but there is obviously no better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45106	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs, Mr Ivan Kostic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45107	Dear citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, with your associates, we have submitted an amendment that is changing and which is said to be a bill on amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, as a national interest of the Republic of Serbia. We, and also your government, cannot boast that environmentalism was a topic of national importance. I would ask you if you were and when you were last in the city of Vrbas, where, according to the Norwegian agency, 2002, a willow Grand Back Channel was declared the most polluted water flow in Europe. I want to tell you that now the citizens of Vrbasa are on strike and that according to plan and general channel cleaning project, 400 thousand cubic metres of waste is planned to be thrown out, lag, 500 meters from the city center. According to estimates of experts from the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics from Novi Sad, 180,000 square metres of waste has been declared waste of the fourth category, and it should be noted for Serbian citizens that they could figure out how much waste is planned to lag on the territory of the Vrbas municipality, I repeat again 500 metres from the city center, that is 900,000 buckets of 200 litres of waste, that is the amount planned to be lagered. Now, I'm asking a question -- when are you going to come to the city of Vrbas, to see what this is about? The number of children affected by cancers is increasing every day in the municipality of Vrbas, and besides, environmental inspection does not do its job, as the continued plant Vitala continues to drain wastewater into the Great Back Channel. Now I'm asking you the same question here as the competent minister for the area and the people involved in conducting environmental inspections -- who's going to stand in the way of the owner of Vitala, Mr. Peconi? I would now like to say that in Vrbas, an initiative is now being planned for the citizens of Vrbasa, as they cannot get help from the competent state institutions, is being addressed by Zeljko Rutovic, a man who manages to solve problems with Predrago Rankovic Peconi. So, the man who destroyed Vital, who reduced the number of workers, from 1000 to 50, continues to inject poisons into the Great Baba Canal, poisoning the citizens of Vrbasa and my children and the entire Vrbas municipality. So I urge you to come to Vrbas, get acquainted with the problem and get on the tail of Mr. Peconi who's been destroying the city of Vrbas and the economy of Vrbbas for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45108	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45109	Thank you very much. Let me just have a few sentences. Thank you for trying to worry about how we could do better in the environment. These amendments are not foreseen by changing the name of the law. It's legitimate to suggest it, but I personally don't think it's the time, and labelling politically, leave for another situation, for another person. It's also your legitimate right, but I'm not talking to you about it, but, you know, time will show what I really think, which and whose amendments pass or don't pass, be patient. I have a long past work and a complete empathy for every good proposal that's in the timing, which is the timing for a certain thing in life, in this case it's about laws, not pretending I'm always right, of course. But what's most important to me, and I repeat, I said it the other day, regardless of some remarks that I don't think are right, that it seems to me that in all of you, there's still a concern for the environment and a desire to really do something, and that it might be different after all. I always go from that point, regardless of the criticism that's a normal thing. What I'm also trying to say is to remind you that the Ministry of Environment with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence has established a Commission to investigate the consequences of NATO bombing. The colleague asked that, the Commission is practically starting to work and we will be taking this matter seriously at the expert level. It won't be a short process, it'll be a process that requires the application of scientific methods and approximations, etc. But I can assure you that we will follow it together. There are no results overnight, and we will see really what the consequences are, and more importantly, what do we do to preserve our national genetic resources from the consequences of this crime that was committed towards our country. Thank you for mentioning it, no matter what it is not in the context of this, but health is always in the context of what we're talking about. It's not necessarily in the title, but it is. If you'll allow one more sentence. The health department deals with health care, and that's their jurisdiction. That's why we're running away from having health in our headlines, but no doubt about what we're talking about. Finally, in order not to be unscheduled, this is all you say in the amendment you've only been doing for a while, it's a national interest, but it can't stand in the title, so much about it. It's very important. In Vorbas, years have been missed to do the things that are necessary. Citizens are not to blame for this, the Vojvodina Government is already taking steps to clear the Back Channel, which is indeed the blackest point in this sense in Europe. It's about six kilometers to go in this case. Reports have been filed and deadlines have been set to get rid of the water and everything, so work and understandably, we'll come to Vrbas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45110	Thank you. Thank you, Minister Trivan. The word is made by MP Bosko Obradovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45111	Thank you, Chairman. I really doubt the well-meaning of Minister Trivan when he rejects all amendments to the opposition and accepts only amendments to the SPS, his parent party. So that speaks of your approach to this matter. You had precisely in these proposals for amendments to the Serbian Dvora Movement a very correct offer, to place environmental protection in an even more important context, to protect the health of the population, Serbia without GMOs, to highlight environmental protection as a national interest, to prevent crime and corruption in relation to all these, etc. If you had a good intention, you would have accepted a quality idea that comes from the opposition, which is constructive, which is the function of making your law even better and that points out that our natural resources, river flows, forests, mineral wealth, clean drinking water sources and agricultural land are a key national resource without which there is no environmental protection. You're aware of that, but at this point, there's something that no government has ever done, our natural resources are being sold, we're selling mines, we're selling agricultural land, we're selling river streams. Mr. Minister, that can't be environmental protection. It's the sale of Serbia, it's the transition of Serbia to some colonial position, where we'll all end up being cheap slavery and cheap labour with a foreign owner. It is no normal idea for Serbia's future and there will be no environmental protection. So we just wanted to draw your attention to how important it is for natural resources to remain in our hands so that you can control the protection of the environment. In that sense, I am obliged to inform you, and it has already been said about you, if you are already an advocate, as well as the Serbian Movement of the Court of Justice, not to allow the mini hydrodes in Serbia to destroy the environment, then you should pay attention to these demands from the protest gathering of citizens in Piroth, organised by the Alliance of the local communities of the Old Mountains and groups of citizens defend the Stara Planina River, under the slogan "Say no to the mini power plant". Here's to hear that three requirements that are actually in the function of what we're talking about with this amendment, which is that environmental protection is a national interest. Here's what the citizens tell you. Under one, by amending the legislation to improve, and by consistent application of the Law, to ensure a better, more effective system of protection of the nature of the Republic of Serbia, so that any development, use of natural resources and interests of capital are subordinated to the interest of its preservation, as a necessary condition of survival, generation and life on the planet Earth. Under two, especially and immediately review a cadastre of potential locations for the construction of mini power plants, with the aim of reducing their number. Under two, ban the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas of the nature of the Republic of Serbia. Under three, remove all illegally built mini hydrothermia. Under four, use all available legal options with the aim of immediate suspension of the issue of new permits for the construction of mini hydroelectric power plants and started works on all mini hydropower plants in the construction phase, until the completion of the required changes to the law and catastra mini power plants. Finally, work to define clear general environmental standards and conditions, as well as strict obligations for investors and users of hydroenergy plants with respect to the ecological model countries, and by establishing a licence mechanism to create a commitment to permanent ecological promotion and modernisation of all existing hydroenergy plants. So, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Dvori Movement is behind every word from this protest gathering in Piroth, organised by the Stara Planina Union of Local Communities and the Citizens' Group "Define the Rivers" of the Old Mountains. Are you behind every word of this? Can you go to the citizens of Piroth, Književci, the Old Mountains in general and say that what you requested at your protest is true, is right, is in the role of national interests, is in the function of protecting the environment, but I have no power to oppose in the government because behind the mini-hydrocentres are dangerous lobbys tied to the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Serbian President Nikola Petrovic. Or you have the strength to stand up to it, so now you're going to publicly call those who are destroying river flows in Serbia, those who, for example, are going to do this to you in the end, as I say on the rivers of Yoshanica and Samokovka, allow projects that have no or negative opinion of the Nature Protection Institute. Or who allowed on the Blackwater River and the river of Rakita by heavy machinery to destroy the crust of hundreds of years of water and property of the people of the village of Rakita? Based on which rules and how to measure the flow of water and so-called water in practice on built mini-electric power plants. A biological minimum? How is it possible to get a positive opinion of the Nature Protection Institute on mountainous waters, habitats of strictly protected species? And finally, I've already asked you, you haven't answered me, when will RTS organise a public debate in which the deans of the five universities in Belgrade who, in an open letter, have objected to the construction of derivative mini power plants, as well as representatives of, say, this protest from the Old Mountain? So the question for you is very simple – do you support this protest from the Old Mountain? Do you support these people there? Do you support their demands or work for Nikola Petrovic? It's a simple question and I ask you a very precise and clear answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45112	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45113	I simply don't know how to respond to this kind of imperial sentence that the MP asks me whether or not I work for. And if I wanted to answer that question in the same way, I could ask the same question – who does this person work for? You know, I work for the Republic of Serbia and for my people. And whatever you're trying to do here as a theater on this subject, that's not gonna happen. I understand your need to support certain ideas, for reasons you know, and that's fine. But I am not sure that NGOs who are and how they are struggling to protect the environment need the support of political parties. I'm not sure about that. I don't share that opinion. Maybe someone's sharing. In our society, I think it's a foul for those who deal with nature protection as a civil sector. But that's where we can differ. I get the impression that you don't actually know anything about it. But it's legitimate, too, that you want to represent a part of the opinions that exist in our country and I have no intention at all of that. Your questions can be legitimate, part of it, but the only thing I'm going to tell you right now is that we are doing changes to the Nature Protection Act and that not everything can be done overnight, believe me, despite what you say you don't believe me. But it's your right. What you need to know is that I've met several times with the people who run that old mountain protection association, and these are the people who have the right to... (President: Time.) Finish it, please. So that's one thing you obviously don't know. And what hurts you the most in the whole story, and you want to hear, here, you'll hear. The Ministry of Environment is absolutely against the mini-hydrocenters in protected goods. You'll get a chance to talk about it. Please keep that in mind and please do not put me in the daily political context of your political struggle. Please, let's talk about the environment and that's all I'm expecting from you. I think that's possible. Let's try at least today in the Assembly. (President: Time.) Thank you. ) I'm sorry, Chairman, let's at least try today to make the topic of the environment not a political topic but a topic of our beautiful Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45114	Thank you, Minister Trivan. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45115	Article 107 – The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly at the session. Mr. Minister allows himself quite a bit of justice and a little while ago my colleagues on my left have commented that they have rarely been able to see such a minister who gives himself the right to call out the MPs, to share their epithets and qualifications in the way the minister shares them. When asked questions, which is absolutely legitimate, every MP can ask a question, especially when those questions are read in the form of a declaration published by someone else, the minister has allowed himself to assess whether an MP knows something or doesn't know something and to call the MPs of the opposition ignorant in some matter. I think it's really inadmissible and that the minister, even if he thinks so, shouldn't allow himself to say it. Mr. Minister, I say again, all the MPs of the Dwri say is not something we invented ourselves. It's all the same to you Serbian citizens and professionals, far more professional than us, the same thing. So we are calling for a very relevant argument. As for mini power plants, the argument comes from the relevant scientific centres of Belgrade University, where dean and university professors also stand behind these initiatives, as well as respected environmentalists. And don't worry, we're certainly not someone who's politically pushing or supporting such initiatives, we're really just someone who's seen it, what these people are doing, and we're fascinated and we're left impressed by that kind of engagement. Citizens are self-organized and they themselves do not want any political support and we absolutely do not want any way to abuse their activity, but we just want that in this home, in the official state institutions, that story is heard. This cannot be forbidden, that in the National Assembly, at the tide, by the MPs and in the discussions with the competent minister, one such story may be heard. I beg you not to share such qualifications. If we are already offended by the ruling majority MPs, you, as minister, should refrain from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45116	Thanks, buddy Nogo. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word is, according to the amendment, Marjana Marash. Here you go. Otherwise, for your information, Srdjan Nogo replaced you completely, he answered for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45117	Thank you, Chairman. I am reporting for the amendment in my desire to support part of the reasoning presented by Ambassador Dvora Ivan Kostic, who called on the minister to come to Vrbas. I don't know if my fellow MP was present here when the Prime Minister's opening statement was made, when the minister said additional funds were provided to be directed to the Vrbas-Kula purifier. I've been exhibiting, which I've had in the past few days, saying that there are some problems when it comes to the Vrbas-Kula purifier. In particular, I can tell you that we've formed a joint venture, it's a Vrbas-Kula. However, the APR does not know the specifics of the joint venture and the whole procedure had to be repeated. Minister, they have pleaded here not to trust you, but I believe you that the environment is not a job but a way of life, because I know you from party organs and I know that it was a way of life for you before you are put into the function you are now in. I would like to repeat that there is also a continuation of the implementation of infrastructure projects in the field of environmental protection, worth 67 million and 400,000 in Kula, Vrbas, Leskovac, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica. I'm sure you will continue to do as you have begun your duties as minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45118	Thank you, colleague Marash. Comrade Obradovic, you do not have the right to reply, you are not mentioned, there is no parliamentary group mentioned, and the minister has only agreed on your questions and qualifications as you said in your speech. You'll get a chance in the next one. Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here's a colleague of Stojanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I asked for an amendment to the name of the law. This is by who knows which time the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group submits amendments to the name of the bill and we do so for a valid reason. Your persistent refusal of our amendments will not prevent us from considering laws and writing amendments where we believe that the text of the law can be corrected. This is a very important law, which also concerns every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and for this reason you should have a little more hearing about the opposition parties' objections, because we are all living in the same environment and are also suffering the consequences of environmental degradation. I believe that you, like all of us, are responsible for the preservation of the environment. However, your responsibility, as the people who exercise power, is much greater, but under this law I have not noticed that you are aware of these facts. It is not enough to rewrite the law from the countries of the European Union, to adopt it here in parliament, and you believe that this is the end of the deal. The work in this area is never done, and I believe the problems are getting bigger. So I urge members of the government to deal with this problem more seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45120	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Mihajlović submitted the amendment to the bill. Here you go, colleague Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, to the very name of this bill, puts the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia under the protection of this law. With this amendment, we formulate it as a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the environment and natural goods. By introducing natural goods into the very title of the law, we correct injustice against some of these goods that have a double character. Namely, there are natural goods that are oasis of untouchable nature, but these reserves also contain animals that would not survive without the help of man. The best example is the case of Krcedin's Ade. It's a natural island where a large number of domestic animals live freely. On the surface of 800 hectares along horses, donkeys, pigs, living and socks, storks and beheaded eagles, and only one man cares about them, and the one who does volunteer work. So, based on these domestic animals, this natural well-being can also be qualified as agricultural, which is a condition that Krcedinska Ada can also count on the financial resources of the Serbian state and on agricultural subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45122	Thank you, colleague Mihajlović. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go, colleague Nikolic Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45123	Thank you. In fact, this bill contains no significant change in nor regulation, nor protection of the environment, and this is one of the few examples that the European Union is actually not seeking any adaptation to this law to the laws of the European Union, but rather this is something of the Government's own, or ours. Now let's see, what's ours, why you've given this one bill, with this one change. There's a feeling here that it's exclusively about the fund, or the Green Fund funds. This is the way you wanted to avoid a competition to use funds from the Green Fund and in some other way give individuals the opportunity to use the Green Fund funds in the future. We know that the Green Fund was abolished in 2012 because it was not transparent, which abused the funds and you re-made it in 2016 and that when you were building the Green Fund you swore to work transparently and publicly. However, the way you have now prescribed that the Green Fund funds can be used does not say that this is exactly how you want to use those funds, or not in a transparent and clear way. That is what this article 101 says when it says that the minister and the minister of agriculture agree to prescribe the conditions set out in Article 1's position. What does that mean? That we still don't know anything that we as MPs must give a blessing for amending and supplementing this law, and that you really need to determine everything and that there is actually a big sign behind it of questions for the abuse of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45124	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45125	I just want to assure you that this is not true, that there are rules set by the European Union that could be included in these funds and criteria that have already been set, that what you said for operational reasons, the minister and one and the other determine what should be, therefore, just some exceptions. Thirdly, these amendments will give rise to the regulation of our Ministry of Ecology, which will also specify exactly what are all the things and procedures that environmental inspection has to carry out in order for people who are participating and seeking to compete with these funds to be able to compete at all and to get those funds. So there's no point in opening up a space for abuses here, just because it's international rules, extremely strict and clear, among other things, we're doing this because we want to meet these international conditions, otherwise without this, our farmers, therefore, individual producers, individuals and landowners wouldn't be able to even participate in asking for that money, without this part of the law that we're hopefully all going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45126	Thank you, Minister Trivan. The word is Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45127	It is true that for the use of IPARD funds there are the exact conditions set out by the European Union, but for the use of the Green Fund you prescribe, not the European Union. Now, here we are afraid, as the Serbian Radical Party, that there will be abuse, because we have already had a dangerous abuse of the same fund since 2012. You can turn your head there and here, but that doesn't mean anything to us. You had to show us here more clearly that you had no intention. Why did you avoid the competition, and the contest says it all? Why did you avoid the competition, so out of the competition there could be a withdrawal of those funds. There's a problem. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45128	Thank you, colleague. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45129	We are here discussing amendments relating to the funds that the state of Serbia should be incomed on behalf of pre-accession funds. That's 160m euros. Dear colleagues and dear citizens, the 160m euros from European funds are currently more than a year and a half. This has already been discussed, as I have already said, a long time ago and after that old "waiting for Godo", here, we are moving forward, even preparing a law in the field of ecology, if those funds arrive at 160m euros. To be honest, while not getting who the opposition is, and who the government is, does anyone else believe that this 160 million will arrive? Is there anyone who can really believe it? Second, and when he arrived, Minister, you didn't explain the essence of those funds. The largest basis for these funds is the installation of equipment for the needs of agricultural land. This equipment, when you look at the conditions, believe that few will choose such an arrangement. Why? Because it is under the watchful eye of observers from the European Union, because agreed obligations can be interrupted at the time when the investor is assessed not to comply with all standards and a number of reasons is why it can be interrupted and why negative consequences can occur, without the influence of both the Serbian government and whoever is taking those funds, and we are going here with something that implies that the Serbian Government will co-finance whoever is taking funds from pre-accession or development funds. It is okay to make this provision, this proposal to allocate funds in emergency emergency situations without competition. You have a situation where it is out of the mind that the competition sets out funds for something that is a burning problem, for something that is a general environmental hazard, but don't put into special treatment those funds that are related to pre-accession funds, or development funds. They can't have the same treatment as the means to be allocated in emergency cases. That is the essence of all objections by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45130	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45131	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the area of environmental protection, it is necessary to change the law, not only to change the provisions of this law to a piece. In the area of environmental protection, corruption reigns, from top to bottom. At the level of local self-government and at the level of the province and the Republic, instruments have not yet been developed to control. How do environmental inspectors perform their functions? Are they corrupt? Are they corrupt and are they in contact with contaminants? Do they benefit from that? So, each other? What is the relation of the Regional Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment and the jurisdiction of the Republic, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia. There's still not enough order. There was indeed a history of crime and corruption and a number of resources were spent there and quantified. Consider only the Pancheva dump, which was built for 20 years, you did not participate in that period when it was built, but it was built for 20 years, cost about 10m euros. One contractor took fourm euros. Who's paying for it? They pay taxpayers. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you if there's a company in the Pancheva area that's been withdrawn from work and license or not? If you do, tell me who it is, and what did the competent inspection do? A painful point in protecting the environment, gentlemen, is your inspection. The inspection is linked to contaminants even with the law enforcement authorities. In the process of proving environmental pollution, you have skills that are ordered and the expert asks whether you want a positive or negative finding, if you want a positive finding that expert to benefit. So, Mr. Minister, make a pledge to establish control to request reports on Panchev's territory on inspection of environmental inspectors, and what happens in practice? The environmental inspector goes to the factory and says – you have to clean the installations, clean this up, the whole factory, but says – I tell you who can do it. It can be the one who handles the export and disposal of hazardous waste. What's the use now? Well, if he has 100 tons he writes in a 200-ton invoice. Well, who pays and who controls it? Now, whether this is true or not, please, you can do a little bit of detailed control. Consider also the case in Covin, in Dublin. You have a man who built tycoon silos for people by the house. These people can't just live to move, but you know what, but when their environmental inspector comes into control, they're sketching pig in the yard. Well, now you see. Are there any cases that a tycoon who deals with these businesses bought a car to an inspector? Is it true he gave him several thousand euros to change his teeth? Whether it's true or not, it can be determined, but when it comes to the ministry, the state has to be stronger than the criminals at the bar. And search your ministry as well. How is it possible when I asked a parliamentary question, I contacted you, too, about a tycoon dealing with hazardous waste, and who was charged almost, how is it possible for your ministry to find out in half an hour and be informed that MP Jojic has asked a question in the National Assembly? That's what you take under control, there'll be better results.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45132	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of discussions on environmental protection these days, the biggest polluters, which are the biggest problems, have been heard that they will be solved, but a little has been heard or little has been said about one pollution as a consequence of the NATO bombing of our country nearly 20 years ago. As a member of the Commission, the Assembly Commission for the Investigation of these consequences of NATO bombing, especially those with poor uranium, will respect the Commission's position and will not present today on the data we are coming to on the ground, but I will only remind you that nine locations in close Serbia have been fired missiles with impoverished uranium, which are mainly used to destroy armored transporters and tanks. The impact of this projectile develops a temperature of over 3,000 degrees and releases nanoparticles that are dispersed in the air or soil and which are toxic to all those who sigh. We will tell you the consequences we encountered when we visited the Pcinj County on the Vranje – Bujanovac – Omlječevica – Relja – Slatkoselce and so on. The herds suddenly began to suffer from leukemia, various other deformities, deforestation of horns, teeth, curves of legs, births of two-headed cubs. The lambs, for example, were born completely blind. So, not to have eyes, but without eyes and so forth. And, Mr. Minister, I heard the other day that you announced the adoption of one of the roof laws on climate change, so I believe that this problem, too, deserves to be found in this text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45134	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by submitting amendments to the SRS, it is believed that a very significant proposal for a law on environmental protection and a very serious topic was found on the agenda of this high house, and that the MPs did not put forth effort and effort and through the amendments give their court and state what it is that the Government should do for a decent and healthy Serbia. As I have said on many occasions, and you ministers confirmed, and the environment from which I come has a huge potential to develop into a real national tourist treasure. Please make an effort to resolve everything I have said in the principle debate for the western and southwest parts of Serbia, but I also ask you, and I have a duty to my citizens to get rid of the non-sanitary dump in Prepolje, as well as everyone else and the like. With such a dump and a polluted river Lim cannot move into tourist valorisation and development, and therefore many tourist values of this region will be left unoccupied by many tourists. If we preserve the lungs of this part of Serbia, i.e. the ravine of the Mileševka River, which is the centre of biodiversity, then the mountain of Jadovic, Ozren, Zlatar, and of course the Uvac which deserves to be protected and bears the name of the national nature park, where in 1999 there were only 10 cubs of white-headed soup, but with an excellent programme of protection of this type of canyon of the river Uvac richer by about 600 individuals, we will be able to hope for cleaner air, a healthy environment, and thus a better and better quality life for our citizens. All of these natural beauty deserves the presence of Pancic's weary tree, the black pine tree over 300 years old, over the raw eagle, the eagle of the snake, the grey falcon, to the otter, the bear, the deer of the wild boar, the giants, the wolf. In addition to these natural sites, I note that there is also a monument to the nature of the Holy Pine on the Stone Mountain, which has dominated the appearance and beauty for four centuries and has attracted the attention of our prominent director, Emir Kusturica, to make the film "On the Milky Way" in this place. All of this is accompanied by an unmovable cultural good of exceptional importance, the Manastir Milesheva and the medieval town of Mileševac, which have been protected since 1947. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45136	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here's a colleague of LJubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45137	Thank you. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group submitted an amendment that we proposed to amend the title so that we would then have a law on environmental governance and protection. We have submitted this amendment because we believe that by accepting it, it would be a more complete essence of the proposed law. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of this Law, we have had the opportunity to hear criticisms from the SRS by the SRS President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and they refer to the scandalous statement by Minister Trivan, who, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, whose minister is represented in the National Assembly of this bill. In fact, Mr. Trivan is a minister in government and state and is ready to revitalise the country's border issue, and in the part of the territory on the left hand side of the Danube, he puts the problem of ecology above all other problems, beyond the problem of borders. No one disputes the fact that environmental problems are of great importance to all of us, but to say that environmentalism doesn't care whether the border is on one side or another is, at the very least, scandalous. The Serbian Radical Party reminds both Mr Trivan and everyone else that it is territory on the left side of the Danube, that it is 11,000 hectares of valuable land that has been the Serbian country since the weekend, that the Danube coast is large and that the price of the land is enormous. At least one minister can be expected to respect the integrity of the state in whose government he is, and to represent the interests of the restoring ministry whose head he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45138	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45139	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are for a few days, I feel free to say, we are discussing the Law on the Protection of the Environment. We point to the importance of this law, namely these changes and additions. As part of his presentation, the minister said that this is one, in fact, the most important chapter Serbia will deal with in the coming period. Also, as part of your interpretation, you explained the agreement between Serbia and Croatia and stressed the importance of the agreement in the area of the environment. What we Serbian radicals have to strongly condemn is part of your exposure, which is at least scandalous, when you said that it doesn't matter whether the border is there or 'here and that the ecosystem doesn't care. So I would tell you, Minister, that this land that you don't care whether it's there or 'here, that it's 11,000 square miles of Serbian land and that we will never allow a single inch of that land to voluntarily surrender to Croatia. When it comes to this amendment that we have submitted to the title, we ask that, as a proposal to add to the conservation of the environment, because we consider it insufficient just as defined. So I would remind you that there are three and a half thousand wild dumps in Belgrade that directly threaten people's health and that a number of new wild waste dumps have been discovered where dangerous waste is stored, which is often cancerous. One of them, and there were words here, is in Obrenovac, where 25 tonnes of illegally buried hazardous waste were found, so I would ask you specifically, how much such waste has been buried in Serbia, do you have any information on where and how this waste is being taken care of and how do you explain that many companies dealing with this hazardous waste have permission to do so? That's what you have to explain to us people's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45140	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45141	Since 2015, so-called ecological tax in local self-governments, Serbian citizens do not know what awaits them year by year because the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration as it is, which you have been able to change over the past six years, gave them the opportunity not to get a solution as a tax on property, but to find them, and most often by entrepreneurs who experience shock at the end of the calendar year, with a fee to be paid. It would not be disputed that this ecological tax was introduced that it is appropriate for the economic moment and that it is spent in the right way, but Mr. Minister, this abuse from municipality to municipality and the consumption of non-intentional couples is precisely the reason why we have submitted an amendment to change the law, its name and to add a word – improving environmental protection. How else, any of your children, any child in Serbia, expect to find 17% of the forest in the future? Once upon a time, you know it well, as a forest engineer, there were 80% under the forest in Serbia. It's 27% today. Instead of this law and these "gifts" of the EU, which we will talk about more specifically later, in which way my colleague Mircic is mentioned, the farmers are conditioned, you should have come up with a strategy to protect this area which was destroyed by the evil NATO pact, how we are going to restore forests, biodiversity, to bring back the relics of plants that only Serbia has. So, we now have one law that goes in favour of your EU cramming, which Serbia will never, otherwise, enter. On the other hand, the big problems facing people working in Serbia's national parks, not to mention, from Kopalnik National Park, Tara, the protected area of Vlasina, which should also be a national park, via Zlatar and other parts of Serbia, where we need what God has given us to use, that this peasant lives better, that young people do not go, to stay there. This way, we are now facing only that you meet the EU's condition, and the citizens have nothing to do with it. It's still being spent by the haughty leaders of local self-government tax, unintentional, which direction it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45142	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here's my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45143	Today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. We asked the amendment to say about environmental protection in the Republic of Serbia. Many ministers have been talking these days about how environmental science knows no bounds, and we think that borders must be known in every area. Whether he meant it in a translated sense or whatever, but in a completely concrete sense, Minister Trivan said two days ago that he thought it was important for him to solve the issue of environmentalism in the Danube, and that it does not matter how the issue of border dispute with Croatia will be solved. It's something a minister in the government can't even think about, let alone say. Indeed, the question is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is behind that position, or whether it is a free shooter who can say it – I don't care whether Croatia takes 11,000 ha of Serbia or not? In order not to repeat this, we think that this amendment should be accepted even though Minister Trivan wants to make amends for what he said, let him accept this amendment, and we will realize that he is really experiencing the Republic of Serbia in its constitutional frameworks. There are a lot of problems that are related to the environment, and you ministers, you like to boast, that's your life, that's your commitment, etc. It's not like that in life. You may have good intentions, but it doesn't work for you. You heard my colleague Jojic. You have as many truths in Serbia as you want. We will talk about it during this debate, and we expect you to try and answer us, if you can't, maybe you can't answer Jojic's questions right now, but you need to find out what it is, who it is, and stop this robbery of the people through the work of the field inspection. We've been telling you in principle the problem of the dump in Lapov. You know about the problem. I talked to you about it myself. Zoran Stankovic, our committee member, who raised the issue, has serious problems, has problems, has a criminal record. He's in trouble, he's being threatened by the representatives of this company, obviously, threatening to know what they're going to do to his family, that I don't know what they're going to do to him. And you send an inspector who says everything here is in order. The only thing I don't know is what this means in the report by Inspector Ljiljana Marinkovic, who says that the daily record is part of two for building material containing asbestos IB 176-105 for October 2017, at the dump, a total of 809,5 tonnes of dangerous asbestos waste has been delayed so far. And we know that this firm that does that, that it is something that you inherited, but there's no excuse. If someone before you has allowed the citizens of Lapova to be poisoned, you as a minister have had enough time or you still have to stop it. Once a license is granted, it can be taken away. Once the contract is closed, it can be broken down. We can't say now – someone has concluded a contract with that someone before you, it was an Austrian or German firm, and what we're going to do, we can't change it, and the people of Lapova should slowly pack up and move, because they're going to die from the poison that's being served there. There are problems not only of this kind and not only in that place, but you are a basic problem, you were talking about the lack of inspectors, and we are undermining you – and in the corruption of inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45144	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45145	Allow me, too, a few sentences summed up. Let me just get back to this paper. We are aware that the inspection in a certain way carries out the Ministry's policy and that it has no capacity. For a year or so, we've been working there, and I'm aware that, first of all, I have to significantly increase the number of people in the inspection, and then what you're alluding to, that I wouldn't be so explicit, that we have to check the work of all these people, and that's what we started to do. We already have some procedures we've done. But I'm also asking that any information you have on this guy about, don't give God, corruption or illegal activities to either the Ministry's inspector, please, it's not necessarily a signed application. We're responding to reports, and we want to check it out, because our mandate and we understand it just like you said. A lot, 40, 50 years, I talked about it at the beginning, it wasn't done right, and it's time for things to start from a dead end. It's not easy, of course, but just everybody together, through information, and we're going to be the government service, so to speak, doing that job. I assure you that my ambition and our ambition are indeed to be so. I mentioned both NATO and everything you said yourself. We will deal with it with conviction, and you will see, of course, there will be results. I fully agree with you that Serbia has something to do. For the first time in years, the ministry has been dealing with the woods the way the colleague used to speak. So, of course, shaming, without any dilemma. And, national parks, well, I'm from the security profession and I've said that sentence which, for those of you who don't deal with it, doesn't have to mean anything, but I've also asked a public question, which will not remain on the question – and are national parks national parks national parks? We'll deal with it, I guarantee you, because I'm not ready to close my eyes to anything that's going on without it being good to happen. Either something needs and is a protected good, so something needs and isn't, or something is declared, and maybe it's not anymore. We'll put serious money into it. As far as the Lapps are concerned, we sent an inspection there. They were there and did what they did. But if you feel you should, we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45146	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45147	Do it in Lapov again and let them do as God commands. The fact that you have a problem with the number of inspectors, the problem you have to solve, that's what we tell every minister. The inspections have to work and can't be saved on that. The ban on employment, still, in state authorities, is not an excuse. Then somehow you reorganize within the Ministry or whatever. You wondered if national parks were really national parks? Well, they didn't, of course they didn't. How's that? Here, for example, do you know that in Vrnjačka Banja, in that beautiful well-being park, a private house with an object of no idea how many tens or twenty squares, 7 ha of land was sold in the middle of Vrnjačka Banja Park? There's not a contract so tight it doesn't have to be broken up. But here's what you've been hearing for the first time, and I'm saying this here the second time. So, you need to follow up a little bit, listen up. We'll never write you any anonymous applications. We Serbian radicals stand behind what we say and we have no problem or whether anyone will threaten us, or if anyone will resent us. We're not lying, we're telling the truth, and we're always defending the interests of the citizens. Protecting the environment is important. But here, I would ask you now – is it possible that Ana Brnabić or Nedimovic, did they tell you that Anna Brnabić promised here, when we turned her attention, let's say, that there was no control of drinking water in the village wells at all? Imagine how many kids drink that water, how many people drink that water. My colleagues are waving their heads at me. Of course. At the time, Ana Brnabic promised, Nedimovic was a minister, because it was within his ministry, that he would urgently take steps to do something about it. She obviously didn't tell you that it was one of your obligations, though you should know that yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45148	Thank you. He's got a word for it, Doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45149	I wanted, in the context of these problems, to say to the Minister that it is very important that, first of all, his inspection overcome one problem, and that problem is called the answer to the questions and problems that citizens are asking in writing. So any written submission to the inspection requires an answer, no matter how meaningful or pointless it is. Now, that's what doesn't work in many cities and municipalities, and that's, above all, your task, or your command, is your obligation to be placed before all municipalities and all inspections by municipalities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45150	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45151	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Branislav Mihajlović, Srdjan Nogo and together by Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45152	I think the point here is why this law is passed. In fact, we have so far had the exception that, after the Green Fund's competition, funds can only be allocated if intervention measures are financed in exceptional circumstances, environmental pollution, recreation and recovery of polluted space. However, we are now introducing that, as an exception to public competition for obtaining funds from the Green Fund, the point is that projects co-financed from EU funds or international funds are also being introduced. I think that this is problematic and that it opens up the possibility of corruption and abuse, especially given that the practice so far has shown that people, who have finances and capital, have not too much trouble making use of the resources they receive from public funds unscrupulously for their own interests, taking care of neither the environment nor the needs of people. That's what I was talking about during the day. Now you're going to say it's done for IPARD funds, although it's not mentioned in this article anywhere. You'll say it's necessary for the citizens, because they can't get control. That's what you said Thursday. You will say that already the EU prescribes certain controls. I would ask you – do you really think there is no corruption and crime in Brussels and the EU? Who killed this Bulgarian journalist is the current case in our neighborhood, Makarova, who was investigating corruption and abuse of EU funds? Someone brutally killed her. I will remind you, from 2000 to today, from the government of Zoran Djindjic, to today's authorities, all the donations that came to this country, what percentages returned to those who donated. So, the EU or foreigners all they give us, from 15% to 30%, we had to pay them back out of all these donations. It was their soil, their corruption. Every credit that we withdraw for some infrastructure projects, because they don't trust us, we don't give enough, are the exclusive conditions for their companies to be performers, and our companies that actually do these jobs work as subcontractors. It means that what the performer takes is either soil and tax or whatever you want the person who granted you the loan. So we already have one practice that EU bureaucrats know that these funds are being misused and where they will be abused more easily than through Serbia. It is a much greater possibility, therefore, for their profit, because it is less control, are not under the glass of their own public, their own countries to do so through a country like Serbia. I would return because, unfortunately, there is no clone of Aleksandr Martinovic, Mr. Orlic, to return to that discussion about the name that connects mini hydropower plants here, in general, all projects concerning energy, IT and other projects, it is Nenad Kovac and he wondered how in 2010, Nikola Petrovic and Nenad Kovac, what does this have to do with SNS. It certainly has to do with what kind of licenses are obtained because Mr. Kovac is the one who connects and connects the right previous and current government. He's the bond between Gilas and Wolfie. No one should mention the name of Nenad Kovac in this assembly, and Mr. Minister knows it. That's why it's impossible to fight mini power plants and it's just faces like Kovac, people who are going to profit from a member like this. In the next article where we mention IPARD funds, so it wasn't done for ordinary agricultural holdings, but you deliberately put that option. You said on Thursday that companies that already deal with agriculture will be able to use it. Is this about the new owner of the PKK or the German "Tenis"? They can certainly be under control, and they could certainly meet the conditions of our public competition, in addition to the competitions prescribed by these international donors of these funds, or these co-financers of these funds. So this member directly allows corruption. This country has serious problems with corruption and abuse of funds, whether they are from our budget, whether they are from international budgets. Both the EU itself and this Europe is not immune to corruption and crime at all. I repeat again the example of Mrs. Macarova, a journalist, a lady who was murdered in Bulgaria, and, thank God, unfortunately, no one in this country has responded.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45153	Thank you. You've wasted your time, pal. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45154	Minister Trivan, when he talks about this bill, he likes to say that this has nothing to do with politics, that it's something, and I don't know, like aliens wrote this bill. So, Minister, everything that comes from the government of the Republic of Serbia has to do with politics. How exactly does this law, to call it "ecology" for short, have anything to do with politics? By changing this law by EU order. So, your commitment to Serbia's team, as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, is a fatal path towards the EU enough politics. Where's he going more than that? What we generally think is not good at this law, and that is why we have suggested that Article 1 be deleted, that we should not actually discuss this law at all, which is the EU before we actually got close to it from Serbia, and that is the fact. You know, you often talk in the media where there are some wild dumps, where some illicit poisons are, etc., and when you look at where it comes from, it comes from or from these plants, some EU factories or from those warehouses that they got, like the ones in Lapov, and there are other places or from those, which is now legalized here that several municipalities can conclude a contract together, so that they make some regional or inter-municipal, as I would call it, a dump. Nothing's good about that. It may be that it may even be well imagined, but essentially such things cannot be done. We talked in the previous part about the corruption of the inspector and the insufficient number of inspectors and the corruption of the people in both the Ministry and local self-government, because they are all connected in that chain. Imagine now that three municipalities in one place are making a dump, who's only going to figure out who's responsible for something that's a problem. What we want to know, Minister, is how are these funds going to be spent from IPARD funds? Will it be spent on us, that Serbia continues to be polluted or spent on solving the problems that have been recorded and recorded so far? What we are also asking of you is to review all the contracts that have been concluded before you are, so it doesn't matter whether you personally came to the Ministry, but, let's say, what this regime has taken care of, and to see and to inform the National Assembly of what are potentially dubious contracts, which are not implemented as agreed, where it is misused by local self-government, and where, by someone, by your ministers, you need to inform the National Assembly, to give you the consent to terminate all such contracts, to file criminal charges against each of the human environment polluters, to seek the termination of a contract with some drive that has come to pollute Serbia. So, there's a lot of work to do and we're just asking that this job be done in the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. We are not interested in the interests of the EU. We are not interested in the interests of the surrounding countries, but only in the interest of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45155	Thank you. A colleague of Sonja Pavlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45156	Thank you. Mr. Trivan, when I was in principle discussing this law, you were left with me to answer, though I, in the next form, set him up to reassure me, and I wanted you to reassure me if you think I'm wrong. Among other things, I have presented all the reasons why we cannot accept this law and, of course, this first member, because for all the members, we thought they should be deleted. They are deleted because we consider this to be a temporary solution, and it is our custom for temporary solutions to become permanent solutions, and we advocate a systemic solution in the field of environmental protection. This system solution requires serious resources, these resources are insufficient, which are proposed under this law. So that's what can only temporarily solve the problem, but really, essentially, a system problem that needs serious financial construction, which this whole government needs to advocate, we haven't been able to find in this law. So the 0.4% budget can't be enough. If we say that he is an indicator of the ministry in the chain of government, it turns out that Serbia is an environment in the last place, and I am very sorry about that. The finance ministry, as I have already said, avoids giving the financial structure, a serious funding plan, in order to provide for everything needed to protect the environment and to prepare Chapter 27 in a quality way for opening. So, he doesn't even attend meetings for a negotiating position, I personally made sure they didn't attend. It's not working to communicate with your secretary of state on this matter, in terms of funding all elements in the field of environmental protection, and there's a lot going on in the field in this area. So, legislation and all the good wishes and all we want are one story. I'm a man of practice, and to me it's true what's going on in the field. I've been thinking a lot, and that's the same question I can ask you, are you thinking about revising the status of national parks? So that's one serious topic, because some national parks didn't deserve that status, given that all natural resources were attacked in these national parks, and these natural resources are treated as goods from which they need to be treated as soon as possible as possible. So that's inadmissible, and that's why we're pushing for one system solution. We're free of the water protocols, free of our district conventions, free of our inpar directive, which has served us as a basis for laws in geospace data. All of this means nothing to us if we don't implement it on the ground, in practice. What is often mentioned here is this famous border, which you were talking about at the beginning, between Croatia and Serbia. I don't know why fellow MPs are surprised, they're probably not sent. So the last state diameter was done in 1981 and in the part of the catastra. In the section relating to the state border, it's never been done. So we don't have a defined state line, actually, anywhere. That's not a question for you, but you're part of the government, so you're responsible for that, too. So I wouldn't discuss the state borders very much until the state border was defined by a serious state diameter. Now I would ask you to answer what is most important to me - what is the Ministry doing in a system-based solution to environmental protection and whether it is considering revising the status of national parks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45157	Thank you. Comrade Boyich, you asked for a word? (Dubravko Boyic: mistake. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45158	We asked for a change in this member, Mr. Minister, because we believe that this IPARD fund can bring nothing good to the Serbian peasant, especially because of the fact that a very small percentage will be those who will apply because of the excessive administration, the various consulting houses that are doing the budgeting of the project, because I wanted to help my closest relatives to help the funds that the Serbian Development Agency is giving to farmers get to replace what they can't simply reproduce on their holdings. It is such a procedure, and it is so much paperwork that in the beginning, you simply raise your hands from it, because you see that there is nothing and when Minister Nedimovic comes to us and tells us – well, half of the invested will come back to you. Yeah, but what's the way to it? Registration, the demand for those who know this, the payment of the service at least 500 euros, is done by the agencies that are authorized to do so. You don't think that a Serbian peasant who is morning to night in the field will come up with the idea of using IPARD funds, filling out those forms, and saying, "Yeah, I'll get it, and then I'm protected for a while, especially because of the fact that in countries that have been in the EU for many years, and we believe and we will do everything to convince the citizens of Serbia that we shouldn't enter the EU, that neither Serbia will enter, and in those countries in our environment very little use of these funds, or applicable and then ask yourself – why? What's the solution? The solution is for the Serbian government and your ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance to come up with a clear policy for farmers who will have some strategic connection to the near future. If we know in Serbia which area should be dealt with mainly by fruiting, which vegetables, which cattle farming, and renew those areas with new farms. The whole of Western Serbia is with devastated villages. During the summer of this mini congregation break, I think I've made over 400 kilometers in these municipalities just to go around the area and see, not just in the Martcavians, or the village where my family came from. So, Mr. Minister, if you don't give it to the peasants now and specifically that they can build mini farms, rebuild their livestock fund, they won't be waiting for any EU assistance, let alone the IPARD fund for which very few will apply, because the way to it is very difficult, and that each euro is extremely expensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45159	The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Col. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45160	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and in the context of this amendment, which in Article 90.b of the basic law has changed the attitude of the 1st Act is to protect and preserve the environment, and that is why I would direct the discussion, i.e. continue when it comes to landfills and hazardous waste. According to data available in Serbia, 80,000 tonnes of hazardous waste are lagged annually, some 100,000 tonnes of hidden and illegal buried waste. What's alarming next to this data is that there is no dump of industrial waste, and there is no centre for the treatment of this waste. Also, we're witnessing a growing discovery of warehouses with dangerous waste, so I'd remind you of one of the affairs where a thousand tons of toxic waste was found in the space of the former chemical industry factory in Novi Sad. In fact, within a circle of the factory, or former factory, 1080 tons of this toxic waste was found, and 32 tons of the same waste was found. However, for them there were neat papers, or documentation. They had adequate documentation. It's a very important question what happens to such waste when we know there's still no room for it to be treated, there's no center for it? And what concerns us Serbian radically, as well as Serbian citizens, is that this waste, there is the possibility that toxic waste leaks into the country, that pollution of groundwaters, and that water is poisoned at all. In that case, the existence of all of us would be threatened, and we see that these affairs are growing, so we are particularly interested in how the problem of the disposal of this waste will be solved, i.e. taking care of it because we know that abroad if this waste is delayed, it costs up to three euros per kilogram?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45161	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savik, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to stress the importance of the environment has for our overall life. Unfortunately, the environment in the Republic of Serbia is nowhere near what we would have wanted and how it should otherwise be. For this there are also responsible on the one hand, it is the Government of Serbia, and on the other hand I must admit that our citizens are also responsible, because there are still many irresponsible and unconscious citizens, and it is really necessary, when caught in action to harm the environment, to punish the most rigorously. What is the responsibility of the Serbian Government? We have two different levels of responsibility. We have an environment in rural, mountainous areas, national parks and the environment in cities, urban areas. In urban areas in our cities, we increasingly have a situation to build buildings, and so our neighborhoods, our cities become overcrowded and there is less greenery, and there is little greenery where we have not enough trees, as is the case in some other countries and in our environment. As for this other one, let's say, national parks, etc. We see that we have a situation that the government is pushing for the construction of the so-called so-called. The mini hydropower plant, and for me, it's really catastrophic, there's one of our sayings -- it doesn't get slaughtered because of a kilo of meat, our rivers are what's most valuable in this, to say mountain areas, and some river to move into a tube and make some mini power plant, just to get some kilowatts of energy, it's pure energy, but believe it's ten times more lost than it gets, and that's why I appeal to the government and the Resor ministry to prevent such attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45163	Thank you. National MP Tomislav LJubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45164	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. We have proposed this amendment to amend Article 90.b of the basic law, paragraph 1. The draft law proposed amending Law 2 but it is our opinion that attitude 1 should be amended so that it reads in the new text of the law – the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia are allocated to beneficiaries for the purpose of financing sustainable protection and promotion of the environment, and on the basis of a public competition announced by the Ministry. The key thing that would be applicable to this amendment is to place a focus on sustainability and protection of environmental improvements. From the ministry in March this year, presenting the results of a two-year project on the state of capacity living in Serbia, our country has been said to be suffering from toxic waste and the state of the environment is in a dramatic state. The Serbian Radical Party warns Mr. Trivan that his job is not only to determine the fact that there is a problem, but rather his job is to solve identified problems, which is why he is the minister. That is why we have submitted these amendments in a systematic way to define the concepts of sustainable protection and improvement of the environment. That is why we believe that the proposing should reconsider and accept the amendments of the SRS. By adopting this amendment, we would get a better and more complete text of the law on concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45165	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jojic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remain at the table of the amendment expected to be adopted, but I would point out, Mr. Minister, and also ask the question – does the Ministry have information about this origin of dangerous waste for the lives and health of people in Panchev and in the populated town of Bavanish? Who is the one who deposited dangerous waste there, and for the storage of that hazardous waste, 12 police officers in Pancheva were hired to provide it for 24 hours. It will cost the Republic of Serbia millions of dinars. I ask the question – until when will the Ministry and the Regional Secretariat for Environmental Protection and the competent environmental inspector of the city of Pančev to tolerate this without removing it, because it is a great danger to the health of people and other living things? That's what the MP of the SRS, Mr Zoran Despotovic, spoke of the other day. I'm just asking - how long will this waste be in a zone that is very dangerous for the lives of citizens? You launched the initiative and the result was the arrest of some people this year, related to dangerous waste, but what Mr. Mircic said is not enough. The ministry must above all be as a state body to monitor co-ordination and to impose measures at the cost of changing half of the ministry and half of the environmental inspectors in Serbia, thus preserving taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45167	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As one of the biggest problems, the country's largest polluters in Serbia are recognised wild dumps. No one has accurately determined their number, between five and six thousand. And if the state does something to remove them, or to remove them, or to ban them, by setting up cameras or guards, they emerge elsewhere. If wild dumps weren't the only problem, I'd say regal, under quotes, dumps, as they pose major disturbances to the citizens of the place where they are. If that were the case, I'd illustrate to you the example of a dump on the master's road Sopot-Kosmaj in the village of Nemenice. Anyone who's been going this way to Cosmaj can't be surprised that the cemetery is being set up right there. It's God's gift of nature. It's the punishment of men. When you go this way in the summer months, you must lift the glass on the car, so that the encounter with that unpleasant smell will be painless. If you're going on a bike or walking, you need to put a blindfold over your mouth. Which is how and who organized it and legalized it, I don't know. Mr. Minister, I wouldn't value your work here or the ministries before you, or local self-government, but these are things and areas where we can do much more. So we can do a lot more without incentives on the side. In these areas, with our potentials, which are not modest, it takes much more initiative and action in every respect. Since my time is up, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45169	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with associates, you know, when someone's sick, they usually ask for help, they ask for how to be treated. It is very difficult in Serbia to be healthy, and especially smiling, because the conditions in which our citizens live do not allow them. First of all, I mean everything that NATO's aggressor planted for us in 1999, and then the state doesn't care about its citizens. It's not just the state since you're a minister, but the general situation has been alarming since 2000 until today. Everyone in that case justifies themselves, and they attack the previous ones. Then who's paying? Well, of course, innocent citizens who believe what they are promised in the election campaign, and after the election, that no longer applies. I have to point out, and I know you won't like this, that only Serbian radicals and Dr Vojislav Seselj went out in front of their citizens and told the truth, sticking to the party's program and their ideologies, not giving up a single pedal. Dear citizens of Serbia, we must all work together to make our country cleaner and healthier, because if we change, trying to get in the way of what threatens human lives and the environment, we will help at least our descendants live better than we do today. Where is Serbia most polluted, and what factors affect it? We need to be open and honest with our citizens and tell them where the heat is, where the boiler rooms are, where coal, lube, where there's a huge traffic density, where NATO's villains shot both the Rafineria and Petrochemy. Here precedes Valjevo, Pančevo, Užice, Kraljeno, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Subotica. For the sake of reminders, the maximum allowed value of polluting matter in the air is 40 micrograms, while the cities mentioned range from 43 in Subotica to 59 in Valjevo. When will Serbia solve the problem of the most expensive fuel in the region and the worst quality? This is not just about you, it's about the complete government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45171	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mircic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45172	The Serbian Radical Party insists on full clarity that the public has insight into everything the government is doing. We therefore insist that it be clearly defined where the Government has, or the Ministry, the discretionary right to grant funds without competition? You must be aware, if one rule is introduced, then it must be accepted in general and must apply to all. How will you act when we are obliged to clean and protect river waterways and coastal resources from European funds? These are European funds, whether there will be discretionary rights or without competition to allocate certain funds to individuals who will deal with it. What is very interesting is that the public is not yet aware of what the funds we received from the EU's accession and pre-accession funds, which were used to clean up South Morava flows. To remind you, several times the representatives from Europe objected to the unintended use of these funds and challenged the opening, or further work under Chapter 27, and the truth, was then at the head of this ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Energy, where it belonged to ecology, was Zorana Mihajlovic. It is a major affair discussed in the European Parliament as well. To this day, we have no record of how and how these funds have been spent, and South Morava is even more polluted. Not to mention the water flow of the Drina River, which is the breadth of the housewives when it comes to drinking water supply, not only of the Podlin region, but of the future and the entire Vojvodina, where it is very critical, that I am not talking about having factories in the middle of the river, that the extraction of aggregates from the Drina water streams is literally left to the mercy of individuals. All of this is being closely monitored by the EU, especially when it comes to water streams, when it comes to drinking water, they are rigorous. What then, when we get those funds that they will very easily allocate, only if we have the right projects, will we then again give discretion to the ministry, or the government has the right to grant without a co-financing fund. So if we have established a rule here, that rule must also apply to future funds wherever they are placed from Europe's access, or development and pre-accession funds. That's what we need to think about. We need to be aware that Europe is clearly asking for a bill to be submitted on the spending of funds to clean up South Morava, that the public of Serbia will also more and more insist on seeing all the funds allocated by the protection of the human environment, including those in terms of resources allocated from European funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45173	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45174	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Trivan, here after practically a few months of a long summer break, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is today discussing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, on the Protection of Rare Birds, Blind Mouse and Other Animals. Someone looking at the side, someone not being directed, would say that, behold, Serbia is a happy country, you might think it's Norway, so he says -- all the other problems have been solved, there's still a few fines left to dress up for environmental science, everything else in the country is perfect. However, the citizens of Serbia living here, I think they are more than aware that it is simply not so, that we have a lot of problems. On the one hand, it is incomprehensible that, instead of discussing those burning issues, we are discussing what the price of gasoline almost, or diesel almost reached 170 dinars, to discuss pensions, to discuss what instead of the promised increase and stimulation of childbirth, led to some pregnant women and families receiving 800 or 900 dinars per month, we are discussing ecology. I don't want to diminish the importance of environmentalism in any sense, and that is significant for every society. But, you know, we need to discuss issues that must have precedence. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not discussing Kosovo and Metohija. Are bats more important than Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija than territorial integrity, over sovereignty, out of respect for Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I don't think so. They no longer hold meetings of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and simply push themselves under the rug of those topics that are more important at the moment, and I think, Mr. Trivan, that you are the victim of the ruling majority. Because the interesting question is, I was just looking at it, the 399 amendments were submitted only to this environmental law that we are now discussing. Most of these amendments were submitted by representatives of the ruling coalition. Now, how do you feel as a representative of the ruling coalition when precisely those who should support you show so much mistrust and so much dissent with what you hard work have managed to prepare and send here to the MPs? Do you have a problem with how you feel, do you need protection? We're always ready, radicals, to protect those who are willing to do their job well. Maybe you're one of them. Well, let's get back to the subject. This is, first of all, the smoke screen and I have made an effort to jump out of this pattern, from this story so far, because this is not a real state in Serbia and this is not a real picture of Serbia. Someone will think Serbia is a happy country, but make sure it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45175	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45176	It's very interesting why you tied the IPARD Fund to the Green Fund funds? It is right that you have avoided competition, when it comes to emergency situations and circumstances and of course you need to avoid competition, the state must react, the ministry, etc. But it's not right why you've avoided a competition when it comes to IPARD funds and why you as ministers only need to set the criteria for withdrawing those funds, and these are the lucky ones who can get funds from IPARD funds, and then they'll get funds from the Green Fund. It's very interesting and it's very debateable and it's something you must explain to the Serbian Radical Party, as well as to the citizens in general. In 2016, the competition is planned as a way of obtaining and withdrawing these funds from the Green Fund. In 2018, you exclude it as a means or as a way of using these funds from the Green Fund. Why? It looks very much like your predecessors. What does that mean? That there will be some new entities on the ground, and these new entities are some ad hoc firms that will register at that moment, to withdraw that fund and to withdraw funds from the IPARD fund and the pui-pike, that no longer applies. It's very similar to a systematic drawback of money from that Green Fund, and you want to legalize it in the way that you've brought it here for discussion, and therefore our consent, while individuals make decisions. Why don't you arrest your predecessors by 2012. Because they did the same thing this way, all legal. So they come in, they make the law, they plant certain things in the law that suit them, and it's all legal. And you, too, do it on the same principle. You shouldn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45177	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 1 we have submitted an amendment which provides that users of the Environment and Legal and Physical Protection Fund, with residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, should meet the legal requirements for the allocation of funds. That way, we will avoid certain foreign investors immediately after buying our agricultural assets from the state fund, and in this case for environmental protection, making up for the funds invested. So, we are trying to specify and clarify our amendments, what can't be said for the promoter. An example of the foggy generality sent before this Assembly is the proposing, among other things, and the bill to confirm the Agreement between our Government and the Government of Croatia on the protection of the environment and the preservation of nature. This agreement provides for us to work together to preserve air, water and to manage waste together. That's nice words, that don't mean anything. How and who will manage, for example, the Charengrad Ad? Croatia is concerned about the protection of carps on the island, and just a little further, in Vukovar, the persecution of the remaining Serbs continues, and the Cyrillic has already been expelled, as we have had the opportunity to see. And now this same state of Croatia presents itself with this agreement as a civilized European state, in which ecology is very important. The problem with Croatia currently has with Republika Srpska can also serve us as a lesson. It is an announcement of nuclear waste disposal, which the Croatian government intends to postpone at the border with Serb municipalities. So the whole agreement is one big illusion, nice words, under which only naives can put their signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45179	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45180	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this, like all the other amendments I've submitted, is intended to point out that this is a very serious matter. Unlike other European countries, Serbia has also had the misfortune of being bombed by our enemies. There was a consequence that was impossible to see. What we know for sure is the fact that the consequences of the bombing yield results. Unfortunately, lately, the number of people suffering from various types of illnesses, such as cancer and similar things, has been increased multiplely. Some experts predict that these consequences will only be felt and that the epidemic of these severe diseases is yet to follow. We'd all like it to be that way, and we're left with hope that something like that will pass us by. But this, as well as the previous government, are acting irresponsiblely on this matter. All of our most significant natural resources are already in the hands of foreigners, so our fate depends greatly on how they behave. This is the best indicator of irresponsibility, because no normal government gives its most significant natural resources to the management of foreigners, especially those who have been proven through history as our enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45181	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Belačić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45182	It is extremely important to remind the citizens that a fund for the protection of the environment has already been established in Serbia once, unless I am mistaken, this fund was formed in 2009 and stopped working in 2012 because of numerous abuses, non-transparency and bad business. During that period, more than 2,200 signed contracts were not realised and thus a 5.5 billion dinar debt was created. The fact is that during this period in power there was another regime whose representatives are not present here right now, so they probably won't react, some, but it's extremely important that you explain to us which guarantee we have that now there will be no misappropriation of the Green Fund and that the funds from this fund will be allocated correctly, and that all contracts signed and realised will be implemented. Another important thing is that Serbia, unfortunately, is irreversibly polluted after the 1999 bombing, and therefore we from the Serbian Radical Party believe that the Green Fund formed in Serbia does not necessarily need to be linked to European funds because of the fact that Serbia would get far greater funds if it charged war compensation from the European Union for the bombing. We think, therefore, that it would be good for your Ministry to form one team, how people in charge of dealing with the environment, above all, environmentalists, and then oncologists and other doctors, and to determine exactly the relationship between the increase in the number of malignancies and all, therefore, malignancies individually after the bombing and after the start of the semi-degradation of the poor uranium. We believe that with one such study, we could prove that a chemical and biological war has been waged against Serbia, and thus, we charge war compensation that would certainly amount to much more than those funds that the EU currently defines to protect the environment in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45183	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45184	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in a few sentences of what you said in the end, should not have been abolished by the Environmental Protection Fund, but there is nevertheless a full record of what you were talking about there and the Ministry is trying and we are already handling it and we are solving old debts. So, with the years to come, we're going to pay off everything that people legally won in these competitions and that job will be done at some point depending on how much money. Of the other questions I'll define myself to say, that the question of hazardous waste is the paradigm of what we did in the meantime, some of your colleagues are, of course, mentioned. The question of how many there are, the data differs because every year, those who generate dangerous waste report it from year to year we have different quantities, dangerous waste that is regenerated and we can estimate that it has it between, I don't know, 100, 120 and 250 thousand tons on an annual basis. Then when you add how much is stored, processed and exported, paid abroad, which is particularly important, then you realize that something is missing, and what's missing is buried somewhere. And it's the worst crime I can imagine doing in this business. We will try what some MPs also suggested, which is that Serbia must have the capacity to process hazardous waste. There are new technologies that are completely clean, which are perfectly fine, but without agreement with citizens and local self-government, it will not be possible. Where citizens won't accept it, no one wants to pressure them to do it, but to protect ourselves from this pollution and to save at least 20 million euros as much as we spend on worrying dangerous waste out of the country annually, I think it would be good to do the same thing. The government is in favour of the quantities of waste that have been discovered and whether or not it is Obrenovac, Panchev and other places, completely in progress. Our organs, they're doing a great job, and they'll be taking care of the order. The government has provided some of the funds to start with to take care of the hazardous waste we've found, because local self-governments usually don't have the money to solve it, but given the new situation from the funds, in fact no one could plan how big it will be and how much we'll find out and we'll continue to deal with it. The national parks will be redefined, the wild dump has a lot, we'll deal with them, but in a different way to settle it once and for all. Inspectors, the painful point, there's not enough of us, the question of how they're doing their job. I expect that with new forces, regardless of what it looks like it will not be just like that tomorrow, we will really solve the issues, the quality of work, the control of that work and everything you have alluded to, and I will really make sure that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45185	Thank you. My colleague, Belacic, as amended. Right? (Alexandra Belačić: Replica. You have no right to a replica. There is no condition for you to receive the right to a replica. You're giving up? (Alexandra Belačić: I am not giving up.) I haven't heard of anything you haven't given up on. By amendment? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45186	I would just like to briefly ask you a question relating to the first part of what you said and, therefore, to work on making up for all the losses made in previous years, I wonder if anyone will be responsible for creating those losses and will you, as a representative of the Ministry and your associates, file criminal charges for those who have caused these losses of five billion euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45187	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45188	Thank you, Chairman. The damages of a member of the law were discussed by fellow Nogo and several colleagues from the SRS and I, with my amendment, just tried to fix something that can be fixed, because I am fully aware that this will be voted on. You've mixed the ministers here with the Green Fund, the IPARD Fund, I don't understand why. Sometimes money past the competition could only be given in emergencies, and now suddenly we throw in and that co-financing can be given in cases of co-financing of projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance. I already see the possibilities of EU finance, which, through many loans and through many laws, see that the funds they otherwise invest, are reportedly irrevocably in the country of Serbia in one way or another, pulling themselves back, and then I have only done so to add these sentences that if this eliminates the immediate danger to the health of citizens. So, they will do what they intend, because we often keep our eyes closed in front of a wish that, in my opinion, is sometimes not rational, that we enter into this decomposing thing, which is called the EU. Well, if that's the case, and that's how it's going to be, because that's how the ruling majority is going to want it, let's save what's to be saved, and that's how it's going to be, and that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, because that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be, that's how it's going to be for the majority, and I'm convinced and it's only from the EU countries, they're going to be given if they remove the immediate threat to the health of the citizens, because it's the least thing we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45189	Thank you. My colleague Pavlovic, you asked for a word? By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45190	Thank you. Who about what, me about the means and the system solution. Mr Trivan, the indicative estimate is that 300 million per year must be invested in the environment from national sources so that the EU can be expected to give us a second half through different forms of co-financing or through EU projects. Once we reach this level of funding, we can expect EU support. But I think that by then the Green Fund was re-established with everything, I think somewhere, you correct me if I'm wrong, 25 million dinars a year can't even function nearly as the former Environment Fund. It's just that it's designed as one budget line and it's not operational. So a new regulation is expected to solve this issue. That's why we think these changes are insufficient, because the Green Fund needs to be embodied to be functional and operational. It is not functional and operational in this way, and as I said, it does not work nearly as the former Environmental Protection Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45191	The word has a Minister Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45192	Let me just say that, I don't know if you've been there for a little while, I'm not saying that as a remark, a national park that will be checked, audited and so on, we're seriously going to get into it, and that's a very important question and only so much so that we don't waste our time. And as for the fund, we foresaw 2.9 billion dinars for this year 2018. It's far away from what I think it should be. You're absolutely right that those of us waiting to finance the environment, expect us to invest our resources in everything I say. First, environmental funds will have to grow no matter what, and no matter what anyone thinks about it. Secondly, I think the Fund will have to get a second look than it does now. This was the first, transitional year for me to see, the first money we seriously transferred to the fund as soon as we got the budget for it, we set up procedures, we're satisfied with the procedures, but personally I think he really needs to get another form. I don't want to talk about it in public yet, but he's definitely going to have to work very differently, more effectively and with a lot more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45193	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Kostic, Miladin Ševarlic and Zoran Radojić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45194	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been heard during today's debate. We did not want to abuse the Rules of Procedure, we did not want to replicate, we waited for the moment when we discussed the amendments that we have submitted to improve and to make their contribution to making the legislative proposal that we are talking about today as high as possible. Before I refer to the amendment, I will address you first, Mr. Minister, as regards the morning part of the debate and several suggestions and suggestions that could be heard, and a well-intentioned proposal, regardless of what we come from the same political option, but a publicly well-intentioned proposal for you. You know, it is legitimate for every parliamentary group, I don't mean by the parliamentary groups who have just participated in the debate, in the afternoon part of the debate, it is legitimately the right of every parliamentary group to try to, in some way, in such an important and significant debate, involve daily political issues to be present in order to make political profit, in order to make political points. I repeat, I don't mean some of the essential issues that they've been asking, let's say, colleagues from the SRS, issues that come from different local self-government, local environments, concern specifically environmental protection and not disputed, of course, that these questions deserve answers. If you are unable to do so today, do so in the next period of time and it is an appeal to all of us of course from the ruling coalition. I mean the morning part of the debate, a well-intentioned advice for you. It is their legitimate right to try to bring this level of debate down to day-to-day political issues, and we suggest that you do not waste time, that you do work for which you have taken responsibility, because by doing so you will actually work in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia. You know, it's legitimate for someone to say and be obsessed, be frustrated with the SPS, but we've been here for 28 years, so it doesn't seem clear to them that we exist 28 years on the political scene of Serbia, and all the time a relevant political factor in Serbia's political scene. It is not clear to them that the SPS is a symbol of both continuity and sustainability and security and stability, and then many times we have heard from these guardians now that the SPS is losing political identity, and we are well-intentioned to them – we are well, thank you for asking, take care of your political identity, not ours. Today they say -- the second-in-a-lifetime political option. So be it, be it the first, but they don't say that kind of research. No research says so, and neither say citizens in all those elections that were held during the previous period, I mean elections in the Belgrade City Assembly and I mean elections held across local self-government, municipalities and cities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We are convinced that the SPS is the second most powerful political option on Serbia's political scene. It is important for us to stabilise our electoral body, but what is most important is that in all these surveys, in all these election processes held by the ruling coalition, there is huge support and trust for citizens and that the results achieved by the ruling coalition are recognised and valued in the right way. The fact that they are gathering together to survive politically is their legitimate political right. In particular, when it comes to your ministry, we, if you remember, have, during the debate on the proposal for a law on ministries, stated and were quite clear and precise how important and significant it is that we have a special ministry to deal with this extremely important and important topic. And then we accepted and admitted that such a ministry existed in the 1990s in the government, I don't know exactly which, you know better than I, we said - yes, there were also 2007 in the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but not from 2000 to 2006, and not from 2008, unfortunately, until 2012, we don't dispute the results. Some results have also been achieved when this area was part of the Ministry of Energy and when this area was part of the Ministry of Agriculture, but to work more on improving environmental protection, to strengthen and strengthen potentials, and potentials and capacities are great, it is important that we have a special ministry to deal with this very important and important topic. This is a complex, very complex, demanding subject. It requires high standards, and it requires a theme that concerns all of us. I think that by forming the Ministry of Environment Protection itself, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear that it wants to deal in one responsible and serious way with this very important and important, I repeat by who knows which way, by question, that it wants to increase the efficiency of environmental protection, that it wants when it comes to harmonisation of legislation to increase capacity in terms of harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, because one third, correct me if I am wrong, legislation is just about protecting the environment. It is very important that in the right way the EU funds benefit, some data say, this is the data at the moment we adopted the Ministry Act, some data say that Serbia would rightly improve and protect the environment is needed to invest around $10 billion. This is a large amount and it is therefore important that we have a ministry that will deal with this issue in the right way. Some opposition political parties, speaking of these changes and additions, are likely to have no arguments, and if you have no arguments then feel better about the minister's resignations, and now that we don't speak only in a negative context, it's up to us to point out some positive things through this debate. Allow me, I will only say in a few, nine exactly points what the ministry did in the previous time period in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group. Transparent work of the Ministry, detecting illegal waste dumps, greater international reputation when it comes to Chapter 27, better waste management, reducing the use of plastic bags, forming a national body that has been so much talked about today to determine the consequences of NATO bombing on which you, as a minister and as other colleagues, expect further results in the coming period, creating conditions for better use of pre-accession funds, ending old and new projects over 92 thousand euros, equipping the National Laboratory for Water Control, Land and Air, increasing charges for environmental taxis. That's what we were talking about today. We fully agree when colleagues say that it must not be when we talk about environmental taxes, that there must be no abuse at local level and non-intentional spending of funds at local level. So the environmental situation is a significant factor in the overall health of the population, and therefore the issue of protecting it is one of the priority social issues to solve. What is it that defines us as a Parliament club, let's say, when it comes to these changes and additions? First of all, it is important for this law to make maximum use of EU pre-accession funds, as well as public funds for the Republic of Serbia's budget intended for this area. This will certainly contribute, this will contribute to these changes and additions, and we are taking a step forward in the realization of this objective. Then, removing the discrepancies currently in existence, which will also be done with amendments and additions to this legislative proposal, a legal basis for the production of sublegal acts. Today it was about the Climate Change Act. Along with these changes, I think a full consensus of society will be made that human health and nature health are inseparable and of course, this is a big step towards a healthy environment, a healthy environment, which is the goal of all of us sitting in this room. As for the specific amendment that I have proposed, first of all the gratitude for support. I'll explain it in a few sentences. I've submitted two amendments. This first amendment is actually a legal basis for the basis and precondition for the second amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 and Article 3 which are directly linked. I have proposed an amendment to the new point 5a, which is fully specified, so - the Law on the Protection of the Environment in Article 90b of the century 1 requires that the resources of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia be allocated to the beneficiaries for the purpose of financing the protection and promotion of the environment, and based on a public competition announced by the Ministry. The amendments to this law provide that funds can also be allocated without public competition and in the case of the financing of intervention measures in exceptional circumstances of environmental pollution, recreation and the recovery of polluted space, and in the case of the preparation and co-financing of projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance, as well as the unscheduled costs related to the implementation of these projects. I proposed another amendment to the amendment, which is that in this way, without public competition, it was said during today's debate, that even without public competition, funding for the intervention of biological, biotechnical, chemical resources could be determined for the prevention and eradication of harmful organisms, their communities and habitats, virus carriers, as well as plant species that pose a threat to human health and the environment. I think this is necessary, because long procedures for public procurement can also cause great harm to people in the environment. It is, therefore, point 5a, which reads: “For the financing of interventions of biological, biotechnical, chemical resources, necessary for the prevention and eradication of harmful organisms, their communities and habitats, virus carriers, as well as plant species that pose a threat to human health and the environment. ” Once again, you have the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. I thank you for supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45195	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45196	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment aims to support this bill, therefore, the proposal for a law on protection, that is, on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. As has already been said several times in the principle debate that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the law, but that we are already continuing to support all activities of the Serbian government that are heading towards raising standards in the field of environmental protection, so all those efforts aimed at raising awareness about it, as I said in the principle debate, are therefore necessary for us all to raise that priority scale when it comes to protecting the environment. What we cannot support as a parliamentary group is, in any case, how others cared about the protection of the environment during the period when they exercised power. We've talked a lot about it. So it's this fake "Let's Clean Serbia" action that they better call clean Serbia's budget. It was just plain propaganda, let me say, an action in which a lot of money was invested, therefore, pompously announced, pompous headlines, and the effects of none. 25,000,000 euros were spent, therefore, between 2009 and 2012, and the results of the action itself were invisible and almost insignificant. So this is the way some cared about environmental protection when they exercised power, but so they cared about both Serbia and every segment as they exercised power. Fortunately for the citizens, it's been a while. The citizens punished them, sent them to the right place, to the opposition. Now they're all to blame for it. Now it's their fault and the IMF, it's the EU's fault, it's the World Bank's fault, it's their investors, Zi Ging, Chinese investors. They're all guilty of being under the census right now, as the last research has shown. For all these reasons that I have stated, I would like to invite fellow Members of Parliament to support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45197	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45198	Thank you. Dear Ministers, we have already discussed in the principle of the Law on Change and Completion of the Law on the Protection of the Environment. We know that this proposal creates a formal legal condition for the use of significant financial resources relating to IPA and IPARD funds amounting to about 160m euros, and this is not only a reform of the financial system, when it comes to environmental protection, but only to improving life, the quality of all our citizens of our country. I have submitted this amendment in order to maintain ecological potential. I know you'll be taking care of the maintenance of ecological potentials, but I just had the duty and the obligation to point out, because we all know that we support the 2030 Agenda, which the UN has recognised and signed, and we're implementing them. Thus, we know that one of the goals of sustainable development, which is 17, is environmental protection. Simply, we need to define the obligations to ensure a healthier environment and compensate for natural losses in the coming decades, which means that more urgent activities and protection of forests, water flows, plant and animal life, and all in order to maintain ecological potentials. We've got to get out of here. We've got to be serious about wastewater processing systems. It is an important item and quality of air, as well as an increase in the share of clean energy. I simply taxed, we know who they are – air, water and land. That's our priority. Because by meeting the objectives of sustainable development, I am holding this Agenda, and in the Financial Committee we have a subcommittee dealing with the 2030 Agenda and I actively participate in this work. I know that meeting each of these goals by 2030 means a more successful, easier and better and quality life in Serbia. So, meeting the objectives of the Agenda is also improving lives with us and each one of us. One of the first goals, I said, is to protect the environment and our goal is to maintain the ecological potential of our country – air, water and land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45199	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45200	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the amendment aims to make an important reference to all harmful impacts on both the human environment and the threat of other forms of living organisms and species, viewed primarily from the health aspect, which are the product of human factor and artificial, or synthetic substances as consequences. Here, first of all, I mean the poored uranium, which was a lot of words during the previous sessions. As the most endangered species, I'm going to point out exactly the human domicile population. In fact, Serbia is the first in Europe for the number of children suffering from cancer, according to statistics, the third in the world for cardiovascular mortality, 25% of cerebrovascular diseases, and a fifth of cardiovascular diseases are caused by polluted air. In children, there is a worsening of asthma symptoms, and chronic obstructive lung disease can develop. As for diabetes and some other endocrine diseases, i.e. endocrine disease, such as a decrease in male fertility, it is thought that it can also be caused by chemicals from the environment. The effects of the bombing in 1999 on human health still need to be established, but there are enough theoretical and practical conclusions that this could have had an important impact on the health of our population, especially those parts of our country that have been targeted by missiles with impoverished uranium. Of course, when we talk about impoverished uranium, here, first of all, I mean certain chemical components that have been found in our environment as a result of mine-explosive and all other activities. Of course, certain changes in the environment precisely through this cumulative effect occur as potential inducers of an entire series of diseases. Even 20% of all diseases are due to environmental pollution. People's health, as we know, is affected by noise, by pesticides, various chemicals in food, as well as polluted water. All of these data integrated knowledge of the environmental health assessment of human health diseases with possible fatal outcome due to air pollution of dust particles PM10 and 2.5 microns, the contamination of drinking water, while particularly highlighted topics related to waste and waste water management, climate change, available funds for financing projects in the area of environmental protection. In solving the problem and improving the current situation, as we all know, a multi-sector approach, support and co-operation of all levels of government, both at local level and at national and regional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45201	Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45202	Dear Mr Arsic, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, we discussed the proposal for a law on environmental protection in the previous days. This law regulates an integrated environmental protection system that ensures human rights to life and development in a healthy environment and a balanced attitude of economic development and the environment in the Republic of Serbia. By adopting the proposal, this law also obliges Chapter 27. Chapter 27 should bring Serbia closer to EU environmental standards. Some 700 regulations governing European environmental standards should be adopted through Chapter 27. When it comes to water, Serbia alone should adapt standards to ten European directives. The biggest problems encountered during the negotiations on this chapter are waste and depositing it. Of course, that is what wastewater and air are all about. More than 70% of active dumps have no work permits, no environmental impact study done. The problems are numerous, and solutions are expensive from wastewater to wild dumps. Many projects are under way, as well as the provision of funds for these projects. Local self-government is expecting the help of this ministry because this area is important for a more quality way of life for every citizen. Serbia is acting responsibly when it comes to environmental protection, given the fact that the massive pollution left over since the 1999 bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45203	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Parezanovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45204	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, when it comes to this law, or amending and supplementing the law, it is clear that they concern legal norms that should enable individual owners and natural persons to compete in a better way when it comes to IPARD 2 of the fund concerning food and agricultural production. I think it's quite clear that these changes deserve our support. What I would like in a broader sense to comment on, and in terms of environmental and environmental protection, I have listened carefully to your opening statement and I agree that there is no dilemma that Chapter 27 is one of the most significant when it comes to negotiations with the EU and that we can agree that environmental protection is the fundamental course of modern society. I think that in all of our society, which has somehow been divided in history and tradition on many issues, when it comes to environmental protection, we can say that more than 90%, perhaps 100% of the people in Serbia agree that this is a very important issue and so is in theory, but the question is really being asked whether or not it is in practice. Unfortunately, I don't think so, and yes, I may be rude, but I think that the environmental consciousness of the nation is at a pretty low level and there's a lot of work to be done in the future. When I say that, first of all, I mean the fact that our country is really a beautiful country that has a lot of natural beauty, natural resources, and that we are from our birth, so through growing up, always used to being made available to us, and these natural resources, natural beauty, and we don't really have a lot of people in the world, and the figures are measured in billions of people, there's no basic need, like healthy drinking water, and we've always had this very accessible. I don't think in that sense we're always aware of how important it is and how much of some moves, the things that are happening to us in our environment, we're jeopardizing. So, I think we need a very serious media campaign, but not just a media campaign, but to find ways to stimulate individuals and local self-government to be more ecologically responsible, to reward those who are, in some way, but also to be prepared for those who pollute the environment, who throw waste wherever they come, who pollute our rivers, in a very harsh criminal policy and not to run away from it. I've never heard of anyone who threw garbage into the river that he was responsible for it. I guess I'm wrong, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but I think it's supposed to happen in a lot more cases and that's the only way we can make a move and it's not just a declarative agreement that this is an important topic for us. What I want to praise is the state's desire to stimulate the economy, to apply some new technological solutions that are more environmentally responsible, because when we talk about economy, we need to know that the economy is hiring citizens, to provide them with personal income, to increase our GDP, and it is very important for us that the economy continues to grow, as is the case in the previous few years. In that sense, I think it is important that the state continues to take over this financial burden of eco-innovation in part and there is a very good example of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, which invests significant funds in projects concerning environmental protection and environmental awareness raising. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45205	Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Dickie, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45206	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, I will begin by saying that I fully support the proposed legislative solutions. By amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, we will create formal and legal conditions for our farmers, i.e. We allow individual owners and natural persons to meet all the necessary conditions in order to be able to compete to obtain funds from the European IPARD 2 Fund, which represents aid to countries, potential candidates for membership in the field of rural development. This investment support is aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the food production and processing sector to help gradually adapt EU standards to hygiene, food safety, veterinary and environmental protection. Simplified, the IPARD programme aims to help farmers and food producers prepare for competition when Serbia joins the EU. However, it is a kind of test for Serbian agriculture that will show whether it is able to use everything European common agricultural policy offers. The objective of this common EU agricultural policy is to ensure a stable supply of markets to agricultural products at affordable prices. With respect to certain conditions, such as the conservation of the environment and human health, food safety, respect for animal welfare, maintenance of land in good condition, etc., farmers in the EU receive incentives regardless of the type of production they are dealing with from the European Guarantee Agricultural Fund by direct payment or market intervention. One of the conditions for the use of the European IPARD Fund is the adoption of an EU environment policy aimed at promoting sustainable development and preserving the environment for the current and future generations. The benefits of this policy will all have, and these are general, better public health, conservation of natural resources, competitive economy and ultimately better quality of life. The EU environmental rules are extremely large and account for about one third of the total number of EU rules. Transposing EU rules into our national and legal system is only the first step in the EU adjustment process to standards, because the EU's environmental policy implies both adequate application and enforcement of the rules, both at national and local level. Our goal, the aim of the SNS led by Alexander Vukić, is to establish a sustainable system of environmental protection in Serbia, but also a significant involvement of this policy in other sectoral policies, thus providing preconditions for better health, better quality of life for citizens and a competitive economy. In line with the signed agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission, which allows the implementation of the IPARD Two Programmes in the Republic of Serbia between 2014 and 2020, our country will have about 175m euros from the EU budget to encourage agriculture, and with the expected co-financing of the Republic of Serbia and the expected funds invested by the users themselves, investments in agriculture could reach as much as 400m euros. This is the first aid of this kind for direct users, i.e. agricultural producers, legal and physical persons. However, this aid can also be supported by the establishment of producer groups, their training, including advisory services, rural infrastructure, etc. with a view to gradually adapting to EU standards in the areas of hygiene, food safety, veterinary and environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45207	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Savkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45208	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which reads – This Law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the conservation of the ecological consciousness. Environmental protection is one of the basic flows of modern society and one of the basic collective human rights. The Republic of Serbia is a candidate for EU membership, and Chapter 27, which deals with the environmental issue, is one of the most expensive and complex. All areas and sectors of work and all policies must comply with the principles of environmental protection. Environmental protection is a question directly affecting the quality of our lives, the health of all citizens of Serbia, and we need to keep education of citizens, starting with family, children in kindergarten, schools, jobs, especially public enterprises dealing with the collection and disposal of waste, in order to raise awareness of the importance of environmental protection, which is a painful and difficult job. This requires the legislative framework to monitor flows and changes. The current practice of financing environmental protection cannot meet the need for long-term financing. However, as a candidate for EU membership, the Republic of Serbia has the right to use EU pre-accession assistance to meet EU standards in certain areas. The Environmental Protection Act stipulates that the Green Fund's resources are allocated to users for the purpose of financing environmental protection and improvement, based on public competition. The proposal amending and supplementing this law stipulates that exceptional funds can be allocated without public competition, and this includes cases of co-financing and preparation of projects from EU pre-accession assistance. In this way, it contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and to the preservation of environmental awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45209	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pantovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we talk about protecting the environment, we talk about the future of our country, we talk about what kind of environment we're going to leave behind for generations to come. It is very important to bring about the best regulation and to apply it and to further influence the awareness of how important it is to preserve our beautiful country through the active promotion of environmental protection. Today, when Serbia has a lot of investment, when new roads are being built, factories, it is very important to reduce the impact of these investments on the environment. As a positive example, I would also like to cite the European Bank's green innovation vouchers programme for reconstruction and development, where this programme has helped small and medium-sized enterprises to do research and to improve their products and technologies in order to reduce environmental impacts and to make more efficient use of resources. This Green Technology programme includes technologies that support transition to the economy by reducing the use of specific fuels by increasing the use of renewable energy sources by reducing the use of water and materials in production, etc. What is particularly important is that the government has recognized this programme as important and that this programme has also had the support of the ministry with you at the head, ministers, and the cabinet of Minister Popovic for Innovation and Technological Development. Serbia also needs more of these programmes and campaigns that promote environmental protection, and in this way I am sure that we will achieve good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45211	Thank you. My colleague Pavlovic, just a moment to see if you have any more time left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45212	Thank you. So, really amazing. We're all in favour of protecting the environment. We all think it's supposed to be a big asset. counterpart Pantovic pointed out the importance, previous colleagues from the ruling coalition also, but you all made a great effort not to discuss the budget and the 0.4% when we were supposed to. All this stuff you just said you could say when we talked about the budget. You could've made sure those funds were bigger. This is just an empty story for me right now, and there's absolutely no weight to bring about a system solution. I believe you respect the minister. I believe the minister respects power. I believe that's the way it's supposed to be said, but you've brought so many amendments that I don't understand at all what this is about. So we're all beautiful, we all love green, and we all act like we love white. It can't be like that. The environment is either protected or not protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45213	According to the amendment, MP Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45214	I'm sorry my colleague doesn't see the budget as a whole. It's a little bit 0.4%, but where we're going to take it to be 0.8%. You had to look at the budget in general to put that remark you put on now. So that's how partial budget observation looks to me like little Mickey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45215	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45216	I thank the chairman. The amendment that I have submitted further defines Article 1 of the proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. As the EU accession process implies not only harmonisation of the rules, but building the necessary capacities and allowing access and use of EU funds, as a result we will achieve the development of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, as these funds relate to environmental protection, we have received support to improve the standard and quality of life because as a society in general we have not yet reached the level of consciousness and taken responsibility for our actions and the destruction of the environment. Serbia faces a major challenge because we need to build many more regional waste management systems, for recycling, to remove wild dumps, and that is the most expensive. That is why we need these funds right now, it is necessary to apply to as many projects as possible, but not just because it will withdraw funds from this fund, but because by actively including as many citizens as possible, it will directly affect raising awareness of the protection of the environment and nature, because preserving natural resources needs to be our priority to inherit our future generations. The pollution and destruction of nature has no justification, and we all admire when we go to a country like Sweden, Norway that has long advocated some high standards, environmental standards. We must come from ourselves as individuals, individuals, to influence each other, to teach our children to love their country first and to cherish it. Serbia is a country that has huge natural beauty that the world still doesn't know about. So I think that the path that we're about to take will allow us, first of all, to understand how important it is to clean up rivers, lakes, air, work on foresting, preserve national parks and prevent any other kind of destruction of our heritage and our treasure, our nature. Also, what I would like to point out for the Grock municipality from which I come is that we have singled out 4.2 million dinars, as much as we have been able to clean up wild dumps on our territory and that local self-government is doing a lot of work to raise citizens' awareness and involve young people in the conservation of the environment, because we have beautiful nature and we are mostly located along the Danube River, which is a great tourist potential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45217	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one debate in particular, somehow this item of the agenda was in the shadow of the change in the decision on the health care fund's financial plan, and somehow environmental and environmental protection came second, probably due to political circumstances in the country. It is an ecosystem that is very important and very important and also affects the Health Protection Fund, because it is the environment in which we live, we have such health and we spend so much money from the health care fund, so it is quite understandable to react preventively and better to invest in environmental protection than to invest later in expensive costs and treatment for our citizens. I am pleased that this story about Serbia that should take its place before, because of the lack of legal regulation, we are being polluted much more, we are investing to bring it back to the original state, counting on all our natural personalities and potentials, but Mr. Minister, my colleagues from the former regime who seem to be the only political idea to accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia of not thinking about its citizens, I would remind them how they cared about the environment. There was a minister before you, there were subsidies for various areas in the protection of the environment, and now imagine this, we import highly toxic waste lead batteries that are filled with sulphuric acids, lead, super oxides and not to list anything else. So, the high concentration of all possible toxins, we import from other countries, and then your predecessor, by 2012, pays subsidies from the state budget to these imported lead batteries. So, not our batteries our citizens had with the exploitation, but the payments of subsidies to imported batteries from the Republic of Serbia's budget. To make the matter even more interesting, the owner of a once-in-a-lifetime company was said to be a small, immoral transaction, the born brother of a minister from the then government and minister of the former regime. That's how they cared about protecting the environment. (Marco Atlagic: Luftiguzi, p. ) Here and now I see some fellow Members of Parliament transferring to us for submitting amendments. One of the reasons we submit to the amendments is to remind the citizens of Serbia as they were while they were in power, and every opportunity we will use to tell Serbian citizens how they ruined Serbia, how they led Serbia to the fact that even children had to treat it via text messages, as long as finally once as responsible people, although I doubt that will ever happen, they admit their mistakes. By then, they can forget that we will stop putting up with the amendments, forget that we will stop telling the citizens how they acted while they were in power, that the citizens don't forget and they won't let them be cheated again, and the younger generations that I saw here last year, about 18 months ago, who were 18, 19 years old, when they lost power were 12, 13, protesting against a regime. And for those younger generations, we'll talk about what they were like when they were in power, so they wouldn't be fooled for the first time. For when those authorities get hold of them, there remains a wasteland behind them. It's an atomic bomb in every area of life and economy, economy, energy, environmental protection. I think Serbia would no longer have survived such a nuclear bomb as it was the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45219	Thank you, colleague Arsic. By its rules of procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45220	Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. If we know what the law is today, I don't know, Mr. Chairman, what this had to do with it. The second thing, first of all, is that I'm just uncomfortable when Veroljub Arsic and the SNS are brutally attacking their coalition partners. I feel bad for you, Mr. Marinkovic, and for these SPS gentlemen, so those who have passed from the DS, I guess that's exactly who remains a wasteland. I don't know how these people sit quietly and listen to them devastate Serbia, that their effect is equal to an atomic bomb, or as Mr. Arsic has already said, you know, you already need that wheel to settle. If they're so bad, what will you do with them in power? You also took them into power when you were able to form the government yourself, while you had so much trust in the citizens. Of course, that trust is being rashed, now it's less, so now you might be forced to take it, but it doesn't make you feel up to it. So if we take care of the dignity of the congregation, which is a member of 107, then we need to tell the truth, we need to say things the way they are. There are some people sitting here who were both in this regime and in the previous and in some regime before that, don't really disrespect your coalition partners in this way. Imagine when we're uncomfortable with how much that's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45221	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsic always bases and connects every speech with the economy and connects each topic to the economy, which is good. I didn't see him miss the theme. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word is Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45222	Article 27 concerning Article 107 Because my name is mentioned, it's okay, he doesn't have to say a colleague, not a gentleman, not a gentleman, and I don't expect that from a colleague, Nemanje Sarovic, but he can't say those from the SNS or these, because the MPs speak to each other with respect. Now, who are with whom in the coalition, who is in New Belgrade, who was until 2013, 2014, in 2012 in the coalition with Gilas etc. I'm not going in at all, that's none of my business. Every political party has the right to choose its coalition partners. For coalition partners, we will never accept those political parties and those political options that have conducted the brutal destruction of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact that someone is crying, that we are not going to join the SNS, that is his problem, is not mine. If he wants to see him, I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45223	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45224	He was great, Mr. Arsic. He really needs to be given an opportunity more often. I think he's brilliant and he's making a significant contribution to the popularity of the SNS. I reported in accordance with Article 104 so I wouldn't forget it, Mr Arsic escapes, if he talks about who was in the coalition with Dragan Djilas, so you were from the SNS, whose daily newspaper "Justice", Dragan Gilas financed with more than 100 million dinars from the Belgrade City budget. That's what I presented here in the mandate, Mr. Arsic, when you, for a time, were not a Serbian radical. You have a lot of that problem. You know, double registration, never when you're talking to me I don't know who's talking, whether Veroljub Arsic's talking radical or Veroljub Arsic's talking, you don't trust yourself. You've lost ground under your feet. That's your problem. You can tell lies now, but here we are, and there's Mr. Trivan, who was at the time the city's secretary for ecology, so let him tell you who the opposition was and what the meetings of the City Assembly looked like, while I was at the head of the SRS parliamentary group, and what they looked like when Alexander Vukic was. When it was Alexander Vucic, half an hour's session, 20 or 120 dots totally didn't matter. Afterward, however, we showed what the opposition is and arguments and knowledge and perseverance and honor and consistency. It's a ground on which you just don't stand a chance. You can't compete with us. You better not even try, Mr. Arsic. We know each other too well. That's your problem. We know who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45225	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Yes) Col. Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45226	Article 103, colleague Marinkovic. Here, I appeal to you, whenever you ask your colleague Sarovic to give him your word, you give it to him. So I appeal to you because in 2009, 2010, 2011, and in 2012, he declared himself a bankruptcy director of the SNS, so he committed the suicide of his parliamentary group. Let him go as God please. So every time he asks for a word, the bankruptcy manager of the SNS, let him conduct a bankruptcy procedure, I just don't know, the winding-up always ended on his side.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45227	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Nemanja Sarovic, another violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45228	Mr. Arsic's obviously mixed up a lot, you know. He doesn't know who he is or what he is anymore, he doesn't know which political party he belongs to, and all that nonsense he's been saying about some kind of liquidation, about that...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45229	What member did I hurt my colleague, Sarovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45230	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. If I was the bankruptcy manager of the SNS, that's not true. I can also mention who my colleagues are and what it's about, but I don't think it's right, because that man is no longer among us, so it's stupid to talk about it. In 2009, I was not even in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is also very easy to check. I came here a lot later, only after more than two years. If I did, Mr. Arsic, I'm sure fighting for the truth about what was going on in the SRS would be much more effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45231	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45232	Chairman, Article 110. Rules of Procedure. I have a great memory, and I know who presents himself as a bankruptcy manager, it's not a late colleague, it's started by Nemanja Sarovic, for the sake of the truth, and he boasted about how he liquidated the SNS's parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly. It's his credit. Now, does anyone mix up what he was doing as head of a committee group and as a MP, anyway. However, he did so, declaring himself to be some bankruptcy manager, saying he would literally liquidate the SNS from the political scene. It is known that bankruptcy ends in liquidation, and now that he's done it suicidally, so he destroyed his parliamentary and parliamentary group, that's not my problem, and I'm asking him to leave us alone on that issue, or continue on, he hasn't learned some school he's taught here, I think he's eleven and twelve years old.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45233	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) In accordance with Article 112, I have to set a three-minute break. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic. Thank you, Nemanja Sarovic, for understanding that we should continue the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45235	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens. Serbia in the process of European integration raised the capacity of legislative regulation and administration in the field of environmental protection to the level needed to open Chapter 27 and thus became the only candidate country to receive a call for such a complete chapter for opening negotiations, without prior conditions. I remind you that many countries are candidates, a lot of cascades for opening Chapter 27, have had many difficulties, many challenges. Some countries, even when they became full members of the EU, paid the so-called Penalties, since they did not design Chapter 27 in a good and adequate way, did not make good preparation. I believe that in the Republic of Serbia we really have good laws when it comes to protecting the environment. What we all have to do together, as MPs, is take care of their application. According to the European Commission's estimates, in our domestic legislation, we have transposed more than 98% of the European directives and that is more than any Western Balkan country has done. What we're missing is money. So it really takes more money to invest in environmental protection. Less than 1%, or 0.5% is not enough, we need to find new ways of funding environmental protection projects and precisely these changes and additions to the Environmental Protection Act go that way and that's good. We still have a lot of work to do to improve the situation in our environment. This is the right time, I would say, to create one of these policies, but also to create future projects where we, as a state, will apply by European funds, and I really want us, as we do every day, to open new factories, and we are the leader of foreign direct investment, to want the newly formed Ministry of Environment to have new factories every day, new plants for water processing, new plants when it comes to waste management and many other projects relating to environmental protection. We all have to work together more in this area. We can't wait for our changes to happen overnight. We need to find partners on the other side, on the side of the international community, through various funds, but also businesses, public enterprises. My colleague Marko Parezenović mentioned these numerous projects that are now being done by the EPS, when it comes to environmental protection, when it comes to increasing energy efficiency and when it comes to really providing answers in an adequate way to major environmental requirements. Also, we must prepare the owners of agricultural holdings in Serbia, our individual agricultural producers, to engage more actively and prepare to compete for IPARD funds. These are, above all, the basic tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We, as MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, will really use all those democratic mechanisms of parliamentary control, and through resolution committees in the National Assembly, and through asking concrete parliamentary questions, and through including a green chair and experts in this area, but also through the control of the financing of projects from the Green Fund. Indeed, Minister Trivan is expected of you. I'd say all the eyes of the public are on you right now. It's not enough to just find waste and take pictures of ourselves next to it, we have to offer our society, our environment, our citizens adequate answers. We have seen a large number of questions today, a large number of suggestions, a large number of suggestions coming from this side, from our parliamentary benches, and I ask you to have hearing, to open up, and to get some of the answers to our question that we have asked you here and to see really these concrete results, what is this newly formed ministry, from which we all really expect very much, have done in this period. I ask you to keep that traffic light on, because I want us as Serbia to really do a lot of things in Chapter 27, so that we are not repeaters, such as some of the full members of the European Union. I would now return to the very changes and additions of the proposed Law on the Protection of the Environment, which will just advance and make a step forward, because it will facilitate this formal legal basis that we have so far missed and will help our agricultural landowners, the owners of agricultural landowners, and will enable them to apply easier for IPARD funds, in order to meet all necessary requirements in the field of environmental protection. The point of the changes is to help our individual owners and individuals to meet everything they need, so that they can apply and ask for funds from the fund. The proposed amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act require the competent environmental protection authority to issue an act confirming that the investment meets the prescribed conditions in this area. It is a standard we want to reach our way to the EU. Significant changes in this law are also going in the direction that our farmers, so that our agricultural holdings can exercise the right to these funds, because the right to IPARD funds can make natural persons, I will remind you, the owners of agricultural family holdings, but also businesses and business societies, as well as agricultural cooperatives. It is essential that all of these four categories that I have now mentioned every day are educated, we inform it better every day. Because the questions we get as MPs from our citizens are that they want, they ask, they cry for new information. I ask you to have more tribunes, to have more manifestations, more events, to bring all these assets and all these advantages and opportunities that we are now creating, first to legislation, but also to all other calls, competitions, closer to all our interested citizens. Environmental protection is one of the basic flows of modern society. If we really want to be active partners, both internally and internationally, we must prepare ourselves to withdraw funds from the European funds that are available to us, but we must also as a state to have the necessary condition for large projects relating to the distribution. We need as a state to provide funds for large projects, so that really partners who stand across from us, which is the European Union, will believe that we are ready to do really big projects and implement them. Minister Trivan, we must continue to reform the financing of all those projects, the way in which all those projects are financed, when it comes to the environment in Serbia. The estimates are such that total investment in environmental protection in Serbia should have reached around 14 billion euros, of which more than nine billion euros should be invested in the water sector alone over the next 15-20 years. The plan is to separate part of that money from the budget, to finance the Republic of Serbia, but to finance a significant part by both the international community and foreign investors. We need to develop the concept of public-private partnership. It is a recipe for success and it has already been done by all developed EU member states and why not prescribe from them? It's the only recipe that we can achieve the full capacity of one of the largest, most expensive, most demanding, most significant, I'd say, chapters, and that's Chapter 27. I hope you will have the ear for all these amendments that we, as MPs, have submitted. I disagree with you that environmental policy is not a political issue. And what a political question it is. When we talk about the quality of water, when we talk about climate change, when we talk about the necessity of further shaming, when we talk about the quality of our land, about our hurricanes, and how all political issues are. I remind you, Austria took over the EU Council presidency on July 1st this year. This is considered a green presidency. And that environmental issues are high political issues, high political issues that are on the agenda and the current consolidation of forces in the EU, but this will be one of the most important issues for future elections that will take place next spring, within the EU, the European Parliament and the European Commission. I thank and hope that we will get answers to all of our proposals and suggestions, because we want, as we open factories and as we achieve excellent results, we are leaders in the region of Southeast Europe when it comes to direct labour investments, I want us to achieve brilliant results and when it comes to protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45236	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. Nemanja Sarovic sought a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45237	Mr. Marinkovic, you have violated Article 27. A Rules of Procedure, which says you are required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You know I don't run away from political struggles and exchanges of attitudes, but in everything there is to be measured. The previous speaker, I'm not talking about the lady. I'm talking about the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45238	We can't right now. (Inenja Sarovic: Turn on my microphone. ) colleague Sarovic, I knew this would happen and that you would continue to flaunt with Veroljub Arsic's colleague and do not, please, put me in a position to have our mutual respect affecting me as chairman. Please continue, so we don't go back to what happened. I took a break, continued my work, and I'm sure I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure during Dusica Stojkovic's speech. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Nemanja Sarovic: No, no, I want to finish. ) But I'll take you away now really, because I have no other option. Nemanja Sarovic: Subtract, but I will finish. You can't... (I Nemanja Sarovic: I am accused of liquidation, look at the stenogram. No, you're not. You're not. My apologies, as chairman. My apologies if anyone offended you, and I didn't warn him. Let's move on. Thank you so much for understanding. Nemanja Sarovic: We can't go any further. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Imanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. It really doesn't make any sense. I've come to the Rules of Procedure. Everything has its limits. ) The word is Milena Turk. Here you go. Thank you, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45239	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 1st Article of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, to further define this member, but also to place a special accent on the importance of improving and preserving the ecological heritage. I especially highlight this topic, because we are obliged to take care of our own environment and how the environment and in what state I leave to future generations to come. Given the importance of the change I am discussing in this debate on the protection of the environment, it is to allow easier and simpler use of the Green Fund's resources, in order to prepare projects that we apply for EU pre-accession funds, in order to ensure that all of these unforeseeable or accompanying costs are provided for the preparation of this dossier, and for this reason I believe it is necessary to find one of these provisions in the text of the members of this law. The Green Fund provides a stable and predictable system of financing, continuity and efficiency in these funds that we use under the pre-accession negotiations. The goal is to change some of the things that are important in our country, i.e. effectively waste management, to introduce and create a wastewater treatment plant, but also to introduce environmental protection policies in all key areas and in the economy, and in agriculture, and in energy, and in transport, and to become an integral part of these areas. When it comes to economics, we will certainly have a lot of work to do, as we are expected to adapt standards to EU liquids, adaptations and conditions to one new legislation, the introduction of a circular economy into our economy, the preservation of resources, and the creation of additional values. We are obliged to introduce the best and modern technologies available to us, to ensure that we are as effective as possible and to achieve the best possible results. This area, however demanding and expensive, is never really an expense, but an investment in our future and an opportunity to start new investments. Conservation of the environment for the present and future generations, the aim of environmental policies to ensure a better quality environment in order to ensure and improve the health of all citizens, the competitiveness of the economy and the global fight against climate change. We need to deal with prevention, change our world, think in time and provide all the conditions to prevent potential dangers and preserve ecological heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45240	Thank you, colleague Turk. Necessa Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45241	Mr Marinkovic, you have violated Article 27, Article 103, 104 and 107 have been violated. As I said, I have nothing against a political struggle, but if someone accuses you of liquidation, and that's no less than a whole committee group, then you need to know what liquidation means, and that five people is as minimal as they can form a committee group, and I'm not liquidating anyone, nor am I a murderer, and these charges are serious. I said, "I'll come first, for the sake of the public, and I'll turn around and say that's not true." The truth works again, the SNS never even had a parliamentary group during that period in the Belgrade City Assembly because it did not go to the polls. Therefore, it was impossible to liquidate them, they never formed it, because it is a respected member of 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia which was not respected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because their coalition partners from the DS prevented the constitution from being applied. Therefore, please, when there are serious accusations, it is a minimum of some honesty and political correctness to allow to respond to such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45242	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I have to take one minute and 13 seconds from the MP's time because you've replicated. Thank you. You want him to plead. Thank you. To a member of the Faith Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45243	On Article 27, item 1. Mr. Marinkovic, what you've done now is very incorrect. Neither Nemanja Sarovic replicated, nor did you have the basis to take his time, because you are upset because he was reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it is really your business. You well know what all MPs of the ruling majority say through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, most often do not say a member, or at some point when you remind them, say which member, none of them, so to speak, has anything to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, are all classical replicas, often and with insults etc. Indeed, it is incorrect for the SRS parliamentary group to take up the time of the parliamentary group on behalf of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and indeed to honor you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45244	Thank you, colleague Radeta. As you could hear and see, I told my colleague Sarovic and warned him that I would have no other option, not just to him, but to anyone, whether it belonged to the SNS parliamentary group or to any other group, that I would have to do it in order to continue with normal work. I've really avoided doing it, and you know it well that I've been avoiding it for real. That's quite a measure, but I had to do it to keep on doing it. Do you want Radet's colleagues to declare themselves in the voting day? Yeah. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? Mladen Lukic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, in the area of the municipality from which I come, there is a Tara National Park whose function is to protect the ecological integrity of more eco-systems for the present and future generations, to disable exploitation or other harmful activities and to provide the basis for spiritual, scientific, educational, recreational needs and needs of visitors from whom everyone should be in agreement with the environment and culture. National parks quickly became spaces for rest, recreation and sport and pleasure. The importance of tourism for protected natural goods is primarily expressed through the strong economic incomes that this activity achieves. Here it is thought of the strong economic potential of tourism that can help finance nature protection from the collection of tourist services. This depends on the type and degree of permitted activities in this protected natural and nature protection policy in the country. Revenues from tourist transport in protected nature facilities are realised through ticket collection, tourist guide services, renting various recreational equipment, making and selling souvenirs and providing other tourist and catering services. In order to improve this offer, it is necessary to provide for all destinations suitable for the construction of tourist infrastructure, to set priorities and offer investors from around the world that, while respecting environmental protection regulations, create the necessary tourism infrastructure and thus enable the maximum potential that this area offers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45246	Thank you, colleague Lukic. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Olivera Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45247	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I have proposed to add Article 2 to Article 1. Proposal for a law on environmental protection, to point out the importance of improving conditions in national parks. I will single out the National Park of Sar-Mountain located in southern Serbia and represent an example of untouched nature with over 1500 species of plants, with more than 200 species of birds, 150 species of butterflies, many animal species and extremely rich cultural and historical heritage. As for improving living conditions for the citizens of Leskovci, a major step has been taken yesterday as regards environmental protection. In fact, yesterday, Minister Trivan and the Kingdom of Holland, with the presence of the mayor Leskovec, signed a grant agreement from the Orio programme of the Kingdom of Holland, worth eightm euros, and these funds will build a sewerage network for 17 settlements in Leskovac, about 80km in length. This will ensure better living conditions for the citizens of Leskovec and, of course, a healthier environment, and this is a big thing in the area of environmental protection for the citizens of Leskovec, and I thank you to this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45248	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The First Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Ljiljana Malušić submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45249	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, the ecological balance exists in every ecosystem in the entire biosphere. In fact, man as a species is firmly connected to other ecosystem components. Human existence is conditioned by interactions and by maintaining ecological balance. Man, with his negligence, carelessness, creates environmental imbalances. Since 2012, the government, headed by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has now, then prime minister, committed to removing and caring for large quantities of historical hazardous waste. So, the accumulation of waste for years in enterprises in restructuring and bankruptcy. So much for the care of that man. This measure will allow these companies to choose a strategic partner, new investments and jobs. The establishment of a waste management system in the Republic of Serbia instead of exports will save the economy and the budget of the Republic of Serbia millions of euros. The environmental disaster is the result of negative and reckless human activities and thus differs from the concept of "natural disaster". People lead to widespread and long - term effects, unfortunately both on the ecological system and on humans themselves, the animal and plant world. The country faces serious environmental damage from oil spills, the threat of nuclear radiation and nuclear waste, forest fires and other environmental disasters. Let us only remember Minister Dulic and his ministry in 2009 and the disaster that struck the beautiful town of Valjevo. With the sudden discharge of the battery on the river Gradac, so-called "Berk's dams", caused by the unprofessional raising of all four constitutions on the dam, the town of Valjevo was then facing a major bio, environmental, health, water and economic problem. The opening of the dam caused the swelling of large amounts of water, the rise of oil, and the sea of fish. The accumulation itself ran out of water, resulting in a drying of water and mud in an immediate environment that spread an intolerable smell. As the dam is located in the city's core, where a large number of inhabitants live, the Gradac ravine, which is considered one of the cleanest in Europe and was a very visited resort then, the citizens of Valjev expressed their enormous dissatisfaction at the time. My fellow citizens, dear ministers, dear ministers, this must never happen again. Never. Thanks to the valuable equipment of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has positioned itself as a environmental quality leader in the region through the Environment Protection Agency, but this is only the beginning. There is still monitoring and environmental analysis in Serbia not at a satisfactory level. More funds are needed to make it better, such as an increase in the number of measurement cells. It takes much more investment to protect the environment in order to create preconditions for greater investment in ecology. We need to reach new technologies, a new way of working, and above all, a new understanding of the purpose and importance of protecting the environment. With this government, with our president, I'm sure maybe in the next 10 years, Serbia will look completely different than it is now, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45250	Thank you, colleague Malusic. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45251	Thank you, Your Honor. The most important instrument for implementing policies in the area of the environment is certainly inspection, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs. Inspection services with security citizens are the main link in law enforcement. There are not enough personnel and inspections not equipped and trained enough, so serious reforms cannot be hoped to achieve stricter standards. Our government and the newly established Ministry are working on the education of those who must be the bearers of the change in control of inspection services. The first of three planned seminars was held in June 2018, this year on Tara, a seminar titled "Protection of Nature, Control and Precautions". He brought together the most competent experts from different responsibilities who simply supported the need to establish the education of all stakeholders involved in nature protection, all in order to improve and preserve nature for future generations. Environmental education and the formation of the ecological way of thinking begins in the earliest youth, hence the very important role of educational and educational organisations at all levels of knowledge acquisition, primary school, high school and higher education. This does not require the situation to be left to the case, but rather organized courses with environmental issues have to be approached very seriously and very effectively, of course through the innovation of existing curricula and programmes. It takes as much action as possible to clean rivers, plastic forests and garbage to stimulate young people not to break, but to plant trees, to clean instead of tossing garbage. There must be a conviction of the environment, I would underline this, there must be a conviction of the environment to such but also legal provisions in terms of penalties that must be quickly charged and that law must allow. When I was in school, we had mandatory work Saturdays. We helped the mountains, the mountain climbers clean up Mount Kosmaj, for example, it was socializing but there was also useful work, and in my opinion it should be restored. Flora and fauna from many areas are doomed to dying, and nature is the greatest wealth. Serbia is a beautiful country with beautiful habitats and let us not allow the extinction of any single species that destroys every pollution and waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45252	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45253	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the first Article of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment to further define the member mentioned, all in order to highlight the importance of amending the legal provisions relating to the use of funds and to financing of intervention measures in exceptional circumstances, environmental pollution and financing of unforeseen costs, which will take place during the implementation of projects financed from EU pre-accession funds. The EU accession process brings with it many challenges, and when it comes to the environment, there are many obligations to be met, for which it is necessary to provide a stable source of funding where continuity should exist in order to improve the quality of the environment and ensure sustainability of environmental development. The fact is that there are many challenges ahead of Serbia, and the fact is that responsible leadership, which is current on the political scene, is implementing the SNS programme, that there are many jobs and many challenges in environmental protection and that there is a large scope of work, starting with building an elementary infrastructure, and to realising projects based on the highest standards, such as regional waste management centres. I believe that our work would have been easier if the predecessors had worked responsibly, if it hadn't been for abuse in cities and municipalities, but today we are certainly in a better position and working like this, following the pace I'm going through Serbia, through all the spheres of social life, and even through the environment, to achieve good results, as well as in other areas, as well as in this one that goes through all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45254	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45255	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is further defined by Article 1 of this Law. Environmental protection is one of the EU's basic flows, and the national parks of the Republic of Serbia mean one of the highest forms of environmental protection. With this in mind, the Republic of Serbia is committed to significantly increasing investment in the area. Chapter 27 of the environment and climate is one of the most expensive and complex chapters in the negotiation process and cover a third of all EU legal flows, which imposes the need to adopt a clear national policy, particularly in the area of financing planning and implementation dynamics. Proposed amendments to the law remove the discrepancies of existing regulations and allow the use of the Green Fund to co-finance projects, financed from pre-accession EU funds. This creates conditions for more efficient planning and use of the Green Fund's resources and provides security in the course of realisation in this way. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act creates a legal basis for the creation of a sublegal act defining the conditions of environmental protection for IPARD users. All IPARD users from the area of agriculture and rural development are obliged to meet the relevant environmental protection conditions. IPARD 2 is an instrument for pre-accession assistance in rural development for the programming period from 2014 to 2020, with a view to achieving European standards and raising competitiveness. The programme has been approved by both the EU and the Republic of Serbia. The use of IPARD can be both legal and natural persons dealing with cultivation, production or processing in the area of the food industry, which includes investing in the physical assets of agricultural holdings. It is significant to point out that the implementation of this bill does not require the provision of additional funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the other hand, allows the Republic of Serbia to use part of the 175,000 euros identified by IPARD and IPA funds. That is why in voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote for this and all other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45256	Thank you. By amendment, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45257	Here, Mr. Marinkovic, if it weren't for me to just criticise it, I would really like, first of all, to compliment the previous speakers on how they are inspiringly reading these literary compositions and perhaps suggest, because of the efficiency of the Assembly, that, in the future, instead of speaking, they might just contribute to the discussions, so that it can be published in the stenographic notes afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45258	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Here you go, Dr. Laketich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45259	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the importance of our country's environmental protection is seen not only through this bill, but also through one fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has formed a Commission dealing with the consequences of NATO bombing and the environment, but also by the health of the Serbian population. As I said today, we are talking about the draft law on additions and amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. My personal opinion, therefore, is that investment in the environment can never be a cost or a loss in the country. Investment in the environment must be the future and represents, in fact, the future of our children and investment in the health of the population. In particular, as regards this law and as regards this amendment, the amendment I have submitted concerns a member who defines the use of funds so-called. The Green Fund. These Green Fund funds serve to improve the environment, they serve to fund environmental protection, and that is something that is very important and this member of the law defines that. However, in addition to this definition, we can say that even more important is the control of the spending of these funds, which is also defined by this law, more specifically by this article. In fact, adequate control of the spending of these funds is established to have a very significant control over the spending of these funds and, more importantly, an analysis of the efficiency of precisely using these funds invested in the environment is being carried out. What I would say, too, and what I personally find very important is that only an adequate and responsible approach by the Ministry of Environment Protection on the one hand, but also by the responsible approach of each individual, we can get a healthier and cleaner environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45260	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45261	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Trivan, distinguished guests from the Ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which was submitted by the Government, I submit an amendment. In Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is amended in Article 90b of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, adds Article 2, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the development of the ecological heritage", which further defines Article 1 of this Law. In this regard, I will talk about the Niš JKP "Naisus" which contributes to improving the quality of life in Nis and is working to protect the environment. The urban area of Niša covers a centralized wastewater collection system. The canalization system is the primary so-called. A combined type, where municipal and atmospheric waste water is collected and evacuated through a single system. The system is designed, built and operated as a combined system, while for future and expansion of the sewer system, the concept of a separator system with a separate wastewater network and atmospheric waste water has been adopted. The existing Nisa sewerage system is located within the area covered by the Niš urban urban plan for 2010 to 2025. The ecosystemic approach to solving problems in the functioning of the city must be adopted on the basis of modern knowledge of the close link between fundamental elements of ecosystems, air, water, land, plant and animal life and humans. Management of one of these elements, such as water, wastewater requires knowledge of the impact on other segments of ecosystems. Therefore, all activities to protect the quality of water, protect the environment, quality of life in the city, must be based on knowledge of the interaction of natural and anthropogenic factors. The sudden urbanisation, civilization progress and increasingly complex demands regarding the quality of life posed by the population conditioned by the "Naisus" JKP Nis to modernise and adapt. Using modern technical and technological achievements, equipment and methods of the "Naisus" JKP Nis can respond to the modern needs of society and contribute to improving the quality of life and improving environmental protection, which requires significant material resources. The Naisusa Nis expert team, as part of the task force, is formed at the city level, actively participates in the implementation of wastewater collection and processing projects in the town of Nis, financed by the Swedish International Co-operation Agency, through the programme Supporting the development of investments in the area of environmental protection, implemented in Serbia by ETIS. In the end, one happy news. Construction works on the Southern Collector have been completed and after 15 years finally put an end to problems with the sewerage in Nis. The construction of the collector cost 41 million dinars, and the funds were secured from the city budget. In the city budget for next year, there will be three times more money for this kind of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45262	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I speak very often of the local self-government I come from, so I will concentrate on some information from Nis that is related to the topic of environmental protection. So the city of Nis will be the first city in Serbia to get a strategic noise map. In fact, Serbia has an obligation to make strategic maps of noise and action plans for five agglomerations, part of the roads, part of the railways and for Belgrade Airport until the day of EU accession. The project was launched by IPA funds with a deadline of 1 January 2021. A pilot for Nis will first be made to apply this experience later to other cities and municipalities in Serbia. It is, of course, a comprehensive document on sources and an assessment of the level of noise in the city. The implementation of this project is under way and is planned for June 2018. – August 2019, and the value of the project is 300,000 dinars. Otherwise, from July 2016 to July 2018, an administrative process was carried out in the environmental impact assessment sector in Nis, including 57 projects. Also, a catalogue of public green areas was built in regular maintenance and interblocking greenery in the town of Nis. This catastre will have great importance in economic, governance, planning and educational terms. The objective is to establish a comprehensive information system on public green areas in regular maintenance and interblocking greenery in the town of Nis and to determine the real state of the Green Areas Fund and their spatial layout, size and functionality. As far as this catastra is concerned, it is intended that the catastra will become part of the business system of enterprises and institutions dealing with the green areas of the town of Nis, i.e. the day-to-day planning, planning and maintenance of public green areas will be in direct contact with this system. The project will ensure the integration of data on public green areas, in the regular maintenance and interblocking of the city of Nisa in one place and the availability of all these data by different users. So this is proof that Nis has progressed in terms of environmental protection. I am absolutely sure that in the coming period we will continue to follow recommendations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia which will certainly have a safe partner in this local self-government, in order to further work to improve this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45264	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45265	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Professor Marinkovic, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, protection and improvement of the environment is a condition of our survival. That is why this Law on the protection and promotion of the environment, as well as the proposed amendment, will contribute to the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by our Government of the Republic of Serbia, the majority of the MPs in this high house, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia headed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic. This will particularly reflect the development of the ecological consciousness as the cornerstone of protection and promotion of the environment, because we know that environmental consciousness is developed from preschool institutions and lasts a lifetime. Therefore, educational institutions are extremely important with their plans and programmes to develop and improve environmental awareness. Dear People's MPs, the former regime's party had no sense of developing environmental consciousness. If Dr Oliver Dulic, called Palic's lion grower, had developed environmental awareness, he would not have paid for billboards with a "Let's Clean Serbia" password for over half a million euros. The former DS minister, the building and spatial planning minister, and otherwise an orthopaedic paid half a million euros for advertising in a daily list. If Dr Oliver Dulic, the former regime's building minister, otherwise orthopedic, had developed environmental awareness, would not have paid for the construction of the Clean Serbia site of 26,000 euros. This was reported by the DRI and published by the newspaper "Politika" on 22.9.2012. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, this proposed amendment is very important, so that the characters do not appear without developed environmental awareness in the form of Minister Oliver Dulic and other peljesanovics, Mutikasic, Luftiguza and Lesidovic, who is chaired by the unfortunate Janko Vesenovic, a resident, otherwise president of the Money and Reconciliation Association, who brought the Republic of Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45266	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45267	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, by supplementing this member with the position I have proposed, the importance of the law is further defined in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The special nature reserve "Uvac" is protected naturally from exceptional importance and is located in the territory of the municipalities of Nova Varoš and Sjenica. The area is over 7,500 ha, and the special value has included meaningdri river Uvac whose rotations have a relative height of up to 100 meters. Within the reserve is one of the largest cave systems in Serbia, the Usak cave system is over 6,000 metres long. The valley of Uvec is partly immersed by the construction of three dams and the formation of artificial lakes – Zlatarsko, Uvački and Radojinski. The water of accumulating lakes is mainly used for the production of electricity and water supply. The special nature reserve "Uvac" features the presence of over 130 species of birds, and among them is the most significant white-headed soup, a species of eagle vultures with an impressive size, a wing range of up to three metres. The number of white-headed soups has so far increased to over 600 individuals and thus the colony of this unique bird species has become one of the largest in Europe. The diversity of intact habitats, the presence of endemic and endangered plant and animal species are of particular importance for the preservation of biodiversity, and thus also for the development and promotion of the tourist potential of the reserves. The municipality of Nova Varoš has continuously invested in the development of tourism despite the construction of road and other infrastructure with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia invested over 200 million dinars in improving the tourist offer. The Serbian government's responsible policy creates conditions that will contribute to the development of tourism with the preservation of natural resources, and thus to Serbia's overall development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45268	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Yokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45269	Dear gentlemen, dear Minister, first of all, I have to realize that this is the only area where we got a lot of money from the EU, and we could have had even more knowledge and that we had projects. That's why your ministry has to be professional, professional enough to educate teams in municipalities and cities, because the West won't give us the means to build factories, to stand alone and be independent. They'll give us very easy and they've given us money when it comes to ecology, but we haven't, I say, taken advantage of it enough. There have been many abuses, but what's most important must be done, Minister, to control the spending of these funds. Under number one, you must help municipalities and cities both in the domain of original incomes. There's a section 6 point 5. - the use of public goods. It has to be the source of budgeting at the municipal level, at the city level. In all municipalities and in all cities, responsiblely I say, it's done very shyly, it's very small sums and those who take pay as much as they think they should pay. I'll talk about it in the second amendment. So you have to help, together with the Ministry of Finance, to do an algorithm, to show what opportunities every local self-government in the use of these public goods, because it's the easiest thing for local self-government to take taxes on personal incomes, to take transfer funds and to spread 0.4% on property tax. And that's where they make sure they live well. And I am responsible here, no matter what many MPs have discussed and said there is no money, I can show on a pen that every local self-government has extra money, just needs to be useful. Secondly, Minister, this problem that we have on Zlatibor with this president, I can't remember what his last name is now, and it's not even important at all now, he's mangupily managed to put what he's destroyed, and I think Zlatibor Nature Park, right, he's very mangupily managed to ask it as a political question. That he got rich, that he built and built himself, and not just himself, but the whole environment. You were on Zlatibor and you saw that he destroyed it. It has nothing to do with politics. It's simply a matter of robbery and ignorance. The waist. So you as a ministry had to answer and say – from the point of view of the profession he did it, that and that. Can't have one Chaetin rule and run one of the Goldibors. It's beyond his means. He can't, a man who has three years of school, rule, etc. and plan and organize urban Goldibor. Well, who in Serbia doesn't understand? That's got to be taken away from him. But this problem that we have in Zlatibor cannot be politicised and we cannot deal with that problem to go to the European Parliament and discuss what we have put at stake. We have to prove to him as a theorem in the science that he's ignorant, that he can't control his psycho-physical possibilities of managing Goldibor. And if this is a country, the state needs that Goldibor to take. Let's get this straight. Zlatibor is too big a bite for the Užice. It's a Republic resource. Now, these are the things that you, as a ministry, must first come forward, set up, define the problem and then ask for help from those of the Ministry of Finance. That's how you solve problems. Not all politics in Serbia, there must be knowledge and ignorance. Now, you have to show that this, or harmonica, which is, it's about ignorance and that it's about thieving, not democracy, politics, party this or her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45270	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45271	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, I have submitted to Article 1, an amendment concerning a member of the 90th Basic Law. And, in the debate, we listen, and it is nothing controversial, the political SNS advocates that we are slowly approaching the EU and that we meet fewer, more and more standards, but that the process will last. When we talk about the process, we also talk about standards, and standards in the field of environmental science concern 27 chapters, which are very important. We know that a third of the normative acts in the EU are actually from the field of ecology. When we do that, then somehow we forget that actually the environment, the environment of Serbia in which we live, is the basis. Not the EU, not the standards, but the environment we inherited from our ancestors, and it is our basic generation duty to at least as high-quality as we inherited it and return it. Under the conditions of modern technical progress and change of industrialization and everything that goes with it, the economy is actually becoming extremely significant. Two are a special aspect I'd like to mention. It's a degree of control and a financial aspect. Ecology is an extremely interesting financial area, not only in the area of investment but also in the area of subsidies. There are different financial interests. The key role is also to include in the process of control and in the various financial interests of all Serbian citizens, that we have a full population involved in the process of ecology, because it is a wider and more serious process. By this law, when we change it, or give a chance to one significant population, the population of small entrepreneurs that they can use IPARD Funds Two. It may not be easy, it may not be enough, it may not be to the satisfaction of everyone who wants it, but 176m euros is certainly what it is to fight for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45272	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45273	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The bill and my amendment aim to point to the importance of protecting the environment and environmental education on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The formation of an ecological way of thinking actually begins in the earliest youth, so that parents play an extremely important role in the ecological education of children, but the equally important role of both educational and educational institutions in environmental education. So it is not necessary to blame, at all costs, the resolution ministry that does everything for the disposal and disposal of wild waste. The problem is, in fact, the cause, in the minds of people, and in the absence of perhaps ecological education and education in some earlier years, not the consequences. Wild dumps are consequences. In our example, we should influence people around us to think ecologically and behave environmentally. Since I come from Toplice, I am particularly pleased that a wastewater treatment system will be built in the municipality of Kursumli and Prolom Banji. Also in Blacu, the resolution ministry has singled out 11m euros to solve the decades-old problem and to build a wastewater treatment plant. That all levels of government and government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as units of local self-government, do everything for environmental, environmental protection, confirms the fact that, for example, my local self-government in co-operation with a public utility company has conducted training for future promoters for domestic waste composting. Why am I saying this? Because composting by waste is extremely important because the amount of waste on the one hand and on the other hand reduces waste management costs. So the government is doing everything to improve the lives of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45274	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45275	The respected chairman, respected ministers, ministry representatives, fellow MPs, water is a resource that will generate huge profits in the coming decades. We need to be aware of that fact. We don't refer to water the right way at this point because we pollute it with wastewaters, all of our resources and the wealth that God has given us, the dumps that aren't sanitary, which are dumps, and that's why I see your will, Mr. Minister, to solve this problem. It is commendable that what we have now heard, for example, that the city of Nis has a system of wastewater solved. It is almost possible to list the cities that have solved it. Belgrade has a big problem. The Danube has a big problem because of Belgrade. The plum of Morava and all the cities in the valley of Morava have not solved this question. We don't have a problem with dumps, sanitary dumps. I don't want to criticize those who were, I want to commend those who did good in this area. I ask you as a man who is interested in this, not as an MP, as a man who is absolutely interested in this because we are poisoning ourselves, NATO is not dumping fertilizer on us, NATO is not releasing fecal waters into our rivers. That's what we have to deal with. We have to be within the means we have. Please make your priorities known to the Committee, whose member I am, record every city as far as it's done, as far as we can, to encourage these people to do more themselves on environmental protection. Now in this debate we have seen how complex and serious this is, and we must never treat it in a way that this area is attached to a ministry, but that we are seriously and very aggressively going to solve these issues. So, we've heard a lot of stories, general data, but please, let's go to a specific ministry, let your colleagues, together with the municipalities, make a record of what we have, to record the situation we have in this country, and then see what the priorities are in the context of the funds that we have and to move towards the EU, which might also be invested in this area in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45276	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45277	Let me thank you, for the essential thing about what is the order of priorities and that from that point of view, it doesn't matter what happened before this, it's important that we know what our condition is. We spent more than a year of time with local self-government to find out what the situation is, because in municipalities there is no capacity, even information about how far it has been for certain projects. I'm not saying that as a criticism, I'm just saying that as a finding, let's talk about how money is collected and how money is spent on the environment. We're going to have good co-operation with the DRI, because that money he's got is going to be spent properly. But for starters, right now, after a year and a few days, my colleagues who run these two key sectors in this sense in which we're talking have made a cadastre and now we know exactly where our community is with which project, because the environment is read as a project. Don't meditate on all topics, except I'm very comfortable with what you're saying, because I feel absolutely understanding and support to deal with our environment, but for me who is operating this business, I'm turning my attention and I'm speaking publicly, the project is a key link to what we're doing. Without the project technical documentation, there is no progress. There's no progress without money that we're going to invest in. Most of you here and today said we don't have enough money for the environment, and I ask you to back us up when we're doing the budget, because we need money no, the ministry, money is needed by local self-governments to have money to make project-technical documentation, and we know where it takes. We're not gonna ask for as much money as we can't spend, but what you said is, in fact, the beginning and the end. We know the cadastre, we have to get out of it. In some situations, we go below zero. But I keep talking about it, not looking back, not despairing, moving on. Our joint mission is to move on and I'm telling you, in a few years Serbia won't recognize what it's all about. It doesn't matter how much effort it's going to take, it doesn't matter how much effort it's going to take, if nothing else, we may not have enough money, but we have enough to have it so that we can invest in designing project-technical documentation. It'll be my finance date to realize it's the money you need first. We'll suffer for other things, that's quite all right, but if we want Serbia to move forward, one of you said -- let's not make the mistakes our neighbours made, so this is the only way, there's no other. I feel this wind that you're broadcasting on this side that I need it and we have to do it, and believe that this team that's here and those who aren't here, this is exactly what they're doing, they're fantastic and most important to me that I know exactly where Serbia is and I know what I'm going to do and what we're going to be looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45278	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45279	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the improvement of environmental resources is certainly in the role of a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine how dirty it must be to rob and steal from environmentals and cleanliness. Here you have had the opportunity to listen to the lecture of those who represent those who ruled, who managed and who had the opportunity to do everything they respected us today that we didn't. You had Gilas's subparoles here, which explained nicely to you what to do, and let's remind ourselves how City Cleanliness functioned under their administration with all the Director-General, Deputy Director-General, 12 advisors to the Director-General, eight sector directors, 20 assistant directors of the sector and about 40 service managers, so bravely forward to 1.5 billion in debt, as they made public enterprises in Belgrade. Then they sign the most catastrophic delivery and installation contract of 1800 containers, past all the rules, past the law. Five of them went to jail. These containers were a danger to the citizens of Belgrade, these containers had to change in the largest number. A lot of the citizens' money was given to repair those containers. They said, "Belgrades, we will build you a metro, a railway underground." They were unable to install it technically, not legally, containers underground, and we were told outside Belgrade – please contact us on the site "clean Serbia", it was paid 25,000 euros and never worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45280	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45281	Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. This proposal for a law on the protection of the environment among other things states that the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia are also used to re-use waste dumps, reduce waste generation, re-use, treatment, or re-use and disposal of waste. What I want to talk about is a dump on the Bujanovac municipality's territory, which, on a daily basis, burns and smokes from it, which daily in the town of Bujanovac, and in nearby villages, pollutes the air around the city of Bujanovac without local self-government and the JKP doing anything. Citizens self-organized, collected signatures and asked local self-government to solve this problem. The local self-government, of course, had no ear for such a request that the citizens had put before the local self-government and the JKP which is competent to collect waste and delay to the dump, so the signatures with the application also submitted to the D.A. to find the person who burned the city's dump I ask you, Mr. Minister, to take the necessary measures out of your jurisdiction to prevent this phenomenon and thus enable the unfettered lives of citizens living in the territory of the Bujanovac municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45282	Thank you. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45283	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, so here we have come to discuss the amendments, and I have submitted an amendment to that first member of the law. In this debate we have already mentioned that environmental protection, the environment, is a complex problem, that it goes to Chapter 27, that it is a very complex chapter. It has been said that about a third of legal and legal regulations are related to this chapter. I just want to look back at telling the minister that this number of amendments submitted by SNS MPs is not a lack of confidence in him and is not an indication of disagreement and that he is not a victim of the ruling majority. I am commenting on this statement by one MP, because citizens who watched the transfer saw that in discussions on these amendments, SNS MPs, problems were first heard directly, which they brought to the local site, related to environmental protection, and the other heard many nice things, that in 2012 especially in 2014, how many local self-governments were led, of course, by SNS and their coalition partners, to move towards protecting the environment. Of course, these shifts in the bar, in certain places, not at all, certainly fit the policy environment of the government and President Vukic, who, among other things, and in his speech, paid particular attention to the environment. Of course, we need a lot of resources and a lot of things to do, but all these positive examples that are illustrated colleagues from the bar talk about, in fact, that the SNS in time recognized the importance of protecting the environment and that, firstly, environmental protection is important for us, for our citizens and for our country. Of course, we have to follow legislation for EU entry and that is nothing to be disputed, but Chapter 27 concerns, and that is environmental protection for us. Now we need to be practical what you have offered us and what I already said in the exhibition two days ago, to use these EU accession funds for co-financing and certainly that the funds are significant, at 160m euros, and you yourself said that this chapter would cost our country 17 billion euros over the next ten years. So, there are no opposition MPs from the ten-party, since I said, there should be 62, because they represent ten opposition parties, they are not here, they are also using this, and the coordinator of this alliance, and the brotherhood, which here the other day brought out that the environment and the ecology are not significant at all, but it has very warmly used the debate in the principle of environmental protection and these other environmental laws to bring out a lot of ugly and dirty things. Of course, we did not remain in his debt either, colleagues Martinović, Orlic and Markovic made all the arguments, but I tell you that theirs, and in one sentence, now I remember, were told, precisely from this Parliament group of Dveri, that environmental and environmental science, but that was not said by their coordinator, that's what another dentist colleague said, are laws that should not be intertwined and not related to politics, but regarding our environments of all of us, should be apolitical, and, behold, irony, after co-ordinator suddenly benefits and shoots from all political weapons, unrelated to ecology. I just want to say once again that their hypocritical beating is what they need as much as possible to beat up on me, because our citizens are very smart, very bright and clearly detecting what has been done, what is not done and who is telling the truth, and who is telling the truth and who appreciates all the positive efforts that the SNS with the coalition partner and the head of President Vukic makes for the promotion of this segment of state and society, which is the protection of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45284	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radmilo Kostic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Radičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45285	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, where a new position is added in Article 90b, and the aim is to point to the importance of environmental protection, as well as to improving sustainable environmental development. Sustainable environmental development involves the development of a society that meets human needs with available resources, not jeopardising natural systems and the environment, and thus ensuring the long-term existence of human society, as well as its environment as we know it. To preserve the environment, we need to change bad habits and take more care of our environment. This isn't just the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. This is the obligation of all of us. To take care of environmental protection at other levels of government in Serbia, it can also be seen in the case of local self-government where I come from. Alexine becomes a better place to live because there are problems in the preservation of the environment and they have begun to solve themselves. The Aleksian municipality consists of 72 villages and itself Alexine. Up until six years ago, it was organized to collect and carry garbage only in the city and in two suburban settlements. Today the garbage is organized into over 60% of the settlements. By buying and placing containers, as well as appropriate machinery for taking out trash, there has been a gradual reduction in wild dumps. I am proud to say that there is no more bag valley in my village, which has been named after bags that you couldn't avoid without being hit in the face or stuck to the windscreen of a car. Only by socially responsible behaviour with the provision of minimum conditions for disposal of garbage can we protect the environment and make our environment a better and better place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45286	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45287	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposed amendment is further defined by Article 1 of the proposed law, which refers to the preservation of protected natural goods. In this context, I point out that the natural well-being of the continent is protected, which is characterized by specific geological, biological or ecosystem specificity and diversity. There are different types of protected natural resources, including protected areas, protected species and mobile protected natural documents. The law protects about 450 natural continents and goods, declaring five national parks, 13 nature parks, 74 nature reserves, 28 areas of exceptional features and 253 monuments of nature. Char-mountain National Park is one of five national parks. It is located in Kosovo and Metohija, which was established in 1993 with the aim of protecting the exceptional value of the Sar-Mountain. The Char Mountain is characterized by the great wealth and diversity of the living world and the presence of a large number of relics and endemic species. With 45% of Serbia's plant world, personal forest communities and species, animal species that are rarely found in nature today, and many are at risk throughout the world, the Sar-Mountain National Park with full rights bears the mark of wild world shelters that are now rapidly disappearing. There are 1,800 plant species on the Sar Mountain, some of which are present exclusively on this scale, as well as 147 daily butterflies, 45 species of amphibians and reptiles, about 200 species of birds and 32 species of mammals, making it one of Europe's most fanatical rich areas. In addition to being one of the hot spots of Europe's biodiversity, this national park is also extremely valuable as a cradle of Serbian spirituality, statehood and history. In this area there are 45 churches and monasteries raised between the 12th and 16th centuries. The Char Mountain National Park, with all its values, has huge international significance, and in this sense I point out that it is also on the national list of one of the 10 potential biosphere reserves under the UNESCO programme "Man and Biosphere" and is on the preliminary list of five potential goods that should be nominated for enrolment in the UNESCO World Heritage List, based on the Convention on the Protection of World Culture and Natural Heritage. Unfortunately, the current situation and opportunities at KIM seriously endangers all values of the Char Mountains National Park. In fact, temporary KIM institutions are not only making it impossible for employees of the public company "National Park Sar Mountains" to carry out their tasks and tasks in preserving these values, but a part of the employees have been prosecuted for allegedly devastation of forests and a judicial verdict has been imposed on them probationary sentences and fines totaling 150 000 euros. Since employees are unable to pay paid fines, it threatens them with an effective prison sentence, only because they did their job and applied the country's rules. The KIM office and this ministry have taken great care of employees of the “National Park of Sar Mountains”, founded by the Assembly, both in their working and legal status, as well as in their belongings. So I ask the Ministry to coordinate with the KIM Office to find an adequate solution to this problem, so that employees do not suffer harmful consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45288	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45289	Serbia is one of the only people in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter where they live, this Serbia and how it takes care of them. As far as National Park is concerned, we know in detail about all the problems they face personally, not just collectively. It's a scandal they've been subjected to with this false trial and financing. The indictment is a scandal in itself, but it speaks of the authorities in our province of KIM. We all know what we think about it, and I have to tell you that in the time ahead, we are going to be able to talk about too much detail, even better, even more fundamentally about our people on KIM, because that's Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45290	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Yevtić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45291	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow MPs, on Article 1 of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Environment Act, I submit an amendment in the sense of adding a second attitude, which more precisely defines the link between the degree of environmental protection with the promotion of flora and fauna. Otherwise, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law, in Article 1, propose another exception to the required obligation to conduct a public competition, to prepare and co-finance projects financed from pre-accession EU funds, in accordance with Articles 89 and 4 of this Law, as well as to the unforeseen costs associated with the implementation of these projects. This would allow the full application of the law in accordance with Article 89(3) and (4), i.e. ensuring the application of a methodology prescribed in accordance with an accredited EU fund management system. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to enable the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds and meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. The proposed provision allows the issuing of acts by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which determines the fulfilment of the conditions in the field of environmental protection, thereby also participating in a competition with the agricultural owners for the allocation of funds from IPARD funds. Without the proposed regulation of the legal basis for issuing an act on the fulfilment of environmental protection conditions, this participation would not be possible to conduct a competition. Amendments to the law can encourage the development of new economic operators and competition in economic sectors, linked to the realisation of infrastructure projects in the field of environmental protection. It should not be mentioned in particular how developed awareness of environmental protection has a positive impact on quality development in all areas of social life. The proposed legislative solution allows for more quality use of the funds mentioned in the protection in terms of improvements in flora and fauna to be raised to a higher and more serious level, thus addressing the problem that has been presented in all parts of the country. This solution to the problem affects the more even development of the entire country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45292	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jevtic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45293	The Honored Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted concerns amendments made in Article 90b, where a new position is added and concerns the maintenance of the ecological consciousness. Just underdeveloped ecological consciousness leads to lasting consequences that, of course, have their own negative reflection on all of us. In the last few decades we have witnessed that the world has begun to lose many plant and animal species, as well as, of course, many habitats of these animals. And it's all because of numerous human activities that are around animals and around plants. Biodiversity itself represents exactly the diversity of the plant and animal world and of course habitats, and it consists exactly of this genetic biodiversity, diversity, and then of this particular biodiversity, or diversity in species, and ecosystem biodiversity. Biodiversity itself represents a very large resource that depends on exactly many families, many communities, many nations, and, of course, generations that come behind us. The basic factor in the threat of biodiversity is, of course, a human factor, a human factor that can, in a direct or indirect way, affect precisely the change in biodiversity. The threat of biodiversity can be seen, of course, every day, and reflected through overfishing, overfishing, water pollution, waste water, waste and garbage, which is, of course, delayed in water streams, land pollution caused by the overuse of fertilisers, due to excessive use of herbicides, pesticides, or inadequate use. For these reasons, I wanted to point out that biodiversity is a very important protection, and from some point of view, the protection of biodiversity is viewed by the preservation of environmental consciousness. The conservation of the ecological consciousness can be observed primarily through education, from this basic cell, from the family. Just so we know as parents that our children are looking at us somewhere, how we behave and how we treat natural resources. Furthermore, some protection of biodiversity is seen through education. Education, in the sense that of some of the first primary units, means when a child goes to kindergarten, to start with some of those educations that are at that level for that age and beyond through primary, secondary and of course higher education. I believe that President Aleksandar Vukic's policy and politics of the Serbian Progressive Party alone speak enough to put at a high level the protection of the environment, i.e. the preservation of the conditions of life and the health of the people of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-09-0.u45294	Thank you. With this discussion, we'd be done for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 59 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs, Dusko Tarbuk and Stefan Miladanovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PROTECTION OF LIFE FUNDS According to Article 90(1) of Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. MP of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that for the purpose of the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LIFE CREDITS, they are invited to attend the sittings of Goran Trivan, Minister of Environmental Protection with Associates. Mr. Chevrlich, on what basis, according to the Rules of Procedure?
