ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31057	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refer to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of the parliamentary questions and answers, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask parliamentary questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by first receiving the words of the MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, headed by the president, my question was addressed to the Prime Minister and to Resolute Minister Mihajlovic. The first question concerns the state of the nation in terms of migration and mortality erosion. So far, we have had the opportunity to listen and to have action through competent bodies related to adequate measures on this matter. However, I think you agree that these measures have so far failed to produce the right results, given that data indicate a markedly poor state, especially in terms of demographic migration erosion. What are your further plans to manage to preserve the elemental demographic potential, and if you agree that it would be a need for a segment of education, i.e. all the capacities of education, education and education, to actually be used in terms of a kind of mental restoration of the nation, given that we have 40 years of the rule of communism, where we have experienced a kind of moral, overall cultural civilizational decline, and then everything that happened in the destructive 1990s? I think we must have the courage to face the fact that we need to admit certain anomalies and use, first of all, the educated system of that restoration. The issue of infrastructure, I hope, is an easier part of the issue, what the media reported this morning that an agreement was signed with the Chinese for the construction of the Požega-Boljara highway. I want it to be confirmed to us, if we can also know some details, as well as the question of how long are we with the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway project, because we had media information that two arms would work? I'm particularly interested in the one, so to speak, our foot, which would pass through Požega, Visegrad, continues towards Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31059	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31060	Thank you. First, I would like to welcome all the honourable MPs. In principle, I'll try to be as short as possible to make room for as many questions as possible. As for demographic migration erosion, I think we're all absolutely aware of that. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in communication with the President of the Republic, has put it as one of the absolute priorities. I'm looking at it two ways. The first is certainly what we did through a adopted strategy to encourage birth in order to have more children in Serbia, and the second is even regional development so as not to have internal migration in Serbia. As far as balanced regional development is concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia has come strategically. One reason why we use subsidies as incentives for investors is precisely to better control regional development and direct investors and businesses towards the very parts of Serbia that are less developed and have greater unemployment. I think that the most beautiful example at this time is certainly the city of Nis where the previous government specifically focused, where we have brought significant foreign investors where thousands of jobs are opened and thousands of jobs will be additionally opened, but where we have opened the Clinical Centre, the first completed Clinical Centre in Serbia's history, where we are currently working with the European Investment Bank on technical documentation for Nish Science and Technology Park, for a new building, or laboratory lamela of the Faculty of Electronics in Nis. So now Nis is standing on our feet and today we as a government are focusing more on some other cities, which should be these development centers of these regions. We will certainly pay much more attention to Loznica, Kraljena, Bora, Zajecara, so that we can actually have strong Serbia in all its parts. There's absolutely inseparable from that and this second question of yours about infrastructure. So the infrastructure in Serbia was, as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know, on an incredibly low level. You have a country where when you start from Nis to Užice you don't know how to get there. That was Serbia's shame, that's what is being corrected, and it's probably part of the success that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see most. So we continue with the infrastructure to connect Serbia, not only with road infrastructure but also with railway infrastructure, to keep people in those places where they were born, so it's not hard to travel from one place to another because of jobs. In that sense, I will also end up with this, so certainly if the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Mihajlovic or Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic wants to say a few words more about the infrastructure and the strategy to encourage birth, I would certainly end up with education. I think that you and I fully understand that this is one of the three top priorities that Serbia should invest more in education, that it should invest more in science and that we should make better use of all of our potentials, which we no doubt have, which are not used enough and that without investing in education and all that really brave and efficient Minister Sarcevic does, we do not have long-term sustainable growth in Serbia. I'm particularly pleased with that, in addition to the information technologies that you know I'm putting a great focus on, that we're introducing entrepreneurship. So it's not all about foreign investment, it's not all about big corporations. There are many things in beginners entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. That's where we introduce education, so kids learn from the beginning and for that segment that tomorrow we have a school where someone goes in and says how much of you they want to be, to have their own firm, we have more than 50% of kids who want to try to implement their idea in practice. If they succeed perfectly, if they fail, much better than sitting around waiting for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31061	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31062	The Serbian government, when we talk about investment in infrastructure, has not only completed projects for the past five years that have not completed 30 years, but has initiated new ones. I want to remind the public that right then it is the prime minister, and now the president of Serbia, who has really done a lot in, above all, making better relations with the People's Republic of China. One result is many contracts and jobs, which we are currently working with the People's Republic of China in Corridor 11, which is of great importance to Serbia, because it is just passing through central Serbia, connecting us with Montenegro and allowing us to practically go out to sea. Last year we signed both the memos and the commercial contract for Preljina – Požega. She's starting to work in March next year. Today we signed the Memorandum, I think it's very important, for 107km of highway from Požega to Bolar, so to the border with Montenegro, for which we first have to do project technical documentation. I'll tell you that the estimate of the stock's value is close to two billion euros, and that the documentation is estimated at a minimum of 50m euros. That's what we're gonna do with the Chinese company CRBC. So, this Memorandum refers to the construction, first of all, of the technical documentation project and it should be in progress this year, and ended somewhere there at the end of spring next year. As for the second project you mentioned, Belgrade -- Sarajevo, precisely through relations and work, economic and bilateral and political relations between Serbia and Turkey, visits by the Turkish president, our president, were launched, I would say, from a dead end of stories about the highway to Sarajevo. It is important for us to connect with the region. The Serbian side is ready to go on the line to Kotroman, 62km. There's a variant, too, and there's another one. We had visits to the Turkish Ministry of Traffic. The people were here, we went through all the locations together, and it seems to me that we're going to go ahead and do the paperwork, so we're going to finish the paperwork to Kotoman, which we don't have complete, and we're going to make a whole new one through Sremska Mitrovica, so we're ready. On the side of Bosnia and Herzegovina, certain decisions need to be made in the next, hopefully, shorter period of time remain. So we're going that way and we want to connect with the region. Our budget is stable. We have no problem giving guarantees and thinking about different ways of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31063	Minister Milan Krkobic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The issue of honourable MP Zukorlic is a question of issues and a key issue today in Serbia. What about even regional development? What about our commitment? Will Serbia be Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis or do we want Serbia to make 4,700 settlements for us? If I may, Ambassador Jojic sent a memo. He deserves us to read two paragraphs. Once the mountain village of Jasenovo near Kokino Brod, 25km away from Nova Varosha, was one of the most developed in the whole area. They called him, watch out - little Switzerland. The local cooperative has become widely known, it has been working on this concept, streams, and other numerous drives. The school had a lot of students. A stadium and a pool were built in the village. There was a health station, a post office and something else. He says to me in a memo - the car has, however, gone downhill in recent years. The cooperative went bankrupt, the drives went out, the school benches were empty. Mr. Jojic, dear Mr. Zukorlic, we have a serious dilemma ahead of us that I have begun this debate, which we will define ourselves for. In this year, the Serbian government singled out 825m dinars for the reconstruction of cooperatives. We believe that without the restoration of cooperatives, there is no rebuilding of the village in Serbia, and without the village in Serbia, we will agree, neither will Serbia. Business is very serious, complex. I respect digitisation, respect modern technologies, but respected friends, almost half of Serbia's population lives in rural areas. Let's see what we can do for them, can we get these Atharic roads to their purposes, so they can go to the field, can we give them basics, which is school, it's health care, the infirmary, it's a cooperative, it's, uh, respected friends, mail. These are some basic elements that will allow young people in Serbia's villages to have a choice. I'm not saying we're keeping them. We have an obligation to offer them the opportunity to say yes, we might define ourselves for something like this. This is also an opportunity for me to invite citizens of Serbia, to invite hosts, farmers, 630 thousand in Serbia, to fully equal, congratulatingly, on equal terms, apply for these funds and to put them on their feet in this year or train existing cooperatives in a total of 70. Once again, I thank you for one such question. This is a topic that deserves much broader, much deeper and much more comprehensive discussion in both this House and this and the future governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31065	Here you go, Mr. Zukorlic. You have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31066	I must admit that in a time when it's not easy to get good news and be happy about it, these days I've been overjoyed by two news. The first was the one we got from the President of the Republic about supporting mothers, especially the third and fourth children. I find that a very important step, to whom I express my support. The second news is what I just said, this highway contract across the cave, for the reason that, here, for two years as I've been doing politics, I've tried to join other Sandzak politicians who've been talking about investment all the time, about factories. Twenty years in Sandzak, no factory opened. I followed a trail of information as to why over 400 factories were opened only by Turkish investors, so I concluded that they were all almost opened somewhere in a wider belt from Piroth to Subotica, therefore, around the road or around the highway. That's why I focused on this, because capital, capital flow has its legality and obviously without highways, I hope soon and the airport, I have to mention what went the farthest, with counterpart Antic, gas pipeline from Alexandrovec, via Kopalnik, to Tutin. But burning needs a factory, or an investment in which we will give a bar signal that this space in the spirit of this orientation on even regional development is not neglected. Also, thank you, Minister Krkobabiæ, for mentioning the village. And last time we opened this question. There are activities for the village, but in radical situations it must be done more radically. So the villages have to get more important action to encourage people to return to the country. Demography disappears from the high altitudes of the village, first, then lower, then from the cities. It's all over history something we've witnessed. Therefore, my idea of tax exemption for altitudes of 600 metres, reliefs up to 40% or 50% for lower villages, is something that I am sure is necessary and that would be worth it, which would pull the claus to the other side, along with certainly these road investments that will connect energy, open us both to the sea and to Belgrade, and especially this relationship towards Bosnia and Sarajevo. I'm particularly interested in reasons to motivate diaspora investments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31067	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31068	Dear MP Zukorlic, I thank you for putting the issue of demographics through parliamentary issues in the focus and interest of the entire Serbian public, estimating that indeed this government, that the initiator for this issue, when the government formed, the largest number of ministers, was Prime Minister, current President, Mr Vukic, also estimated that the voice of an expert who had not heard from a large number of decades, because in the 50s last century, the demographic experts were just saying in the way you say, that we must take steps to prevent a disaster of disappearance, lost without any echo. In fact, the previous governments, including the one that made up a good document in 2008 – the strategy to encourage birth, did listen to the voice of the profession, but what is true, is that the document was in the drawer and that in fact at the end of 2016, when the government was given a special task of dealing with this issue, and that the civil sector and the academic public, and the greater the number of citizens on these issues, took the first steps. I want to inform you that we did not complement the Strategy to encourage birth, but we have just created a new document, because the issue of active ageing and the issue of migration management were segments that were not current 10 years ago and which are now completely new content and have changed this document. What's also new is that this strategy that was adopted by the government actually won the Action Plan. In this Action Plan, institutions and individuals were given a specific task. Despite national measures, which are not only of financial nature, which, among other things, are the coordination of work and parenting and the reduction of psychological cost of parenting, which is quite large and raising the level of the state of reproductive health of the nation, where Minister Loncar and his associates work a lot through a whole series of educational and screening techniques, which are very live and current both these days and the education system in which we introduced the fifth classes of elementary school, through physical and health education, for the first time topics from the field of reproductive health, done a lot. All the national programmes, which have been talked about a lot these days, will not matter if we work only at the level of national ideas of financial assistance and the above mentioned issues. The units of local self-government are the ones most important, and they certainly include different altitudes. Unfortunately, there are only 41 units of local self-government in Serbia at the moment, and you cannot stop civilization flows, but where there are persons who are in a fertilised period, and that is the working-active population and those who are potential parents, we need to create incomparably greater stimulation for all together and locally responsible persons and we who are sitting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the factor in education is extremely significant and, of course, even those environments where there were no birth problems slowly go downhill by parameters. New Pazar, for example, was born by the last year to a thousand residents of 14 to 15 babies, and nine to 10 people died. Now it's changed, a little less than 13 babies are born and mortality is increasing. Not to say that in Serbia because of the "baby boom" generation, which is the largest generation, the largest number of people born in the 1950s, that this generation is entering a period when pensioners will be by 2021 and when their health bulletin will be getting worse. Well, since in 2017 we managed to make the first number of newborn babies the same as the previous year, in the last decade it was smaller and smaller year by year, we have to face the fact that mortality will increase and therefore the incentive for mothers to have a third and fourth child in all ways is very important. Once again, thank you for just asking this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31069	Here you go, Mr. Zukorlic. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31070	Thank you. We mentioned education and I want to point out that this formal aspect of education reform is going very well, as I particularly draw the attention of the centres of excellence, such as Petnica and other centres. It's all big steps. What was my suggestion is to try at least regionally and this, and to deploy these centers, so that at least all the districts or regions get one such centre, because what I'm worried about is that we don't get past this many good formal measures. I'm in communication with students every day. It is noted that the first year of colleges, most of which you notice a great flight, high expectations, many talents, ambitions and somehow these ambitions fall in the second, third and fourth years. So somehow we get the impression that we have, perhaps methodically, perhaps psychologically, whatever, I don't know, but not enough effective profiling of students and tomorrow's perfect for his ambitions. It's kind of happening to us that we mostly make cars a lot less locomotives. The product of that is that a small number finds a sting in some state business, the rest go west and we become some kind of, I apologize, but the sheep cut, and it's free of charge. I would just point out the need for focus to be on that essence, to explore the possibility of preserving the ambition that a high school student has in his flight when he comes to the first year and that we either preserve or encourage him to the fourth year, that a diplomat says - I will hire five of those who do not have a degree, and not - who will give me the job? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31071	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Vojislav Seselj: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this section. (Vojislav Seselj: There is no Rules of Procedure when there is a session on the agenda regarding the current topic. No, but it's all about the government's work procedure, believe me. And it's always been a practice so far. (Vojislav Seselj: There are questions in the Rules of Procedure. See Rules of Procedure, Rule 216.) It's all about the procedure of controlling the government, believe me. It's been a practice so far. Here you go, Zoran Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31072	Thank you very much. It's a real pleasure to have an opportunity to ask questions to the government. I have a few questions. The first issue of the Prime Minister and Transport Ministers – is it true that Etyhad is withdrawing from "Er Serbia" and that this will be the result of the huge losses that the company is experiencing, dissatisfied with the level of public and secret subsidies it receives? Secondly, on what basis, under what legal act and with what intention does the Government sign secret agreements, among other things, and the concession agreement for "Nikola Tesla" airport, because it is public property, it is the property of all Serbian citizens and there is no reason for any part of that agreement to be classified, especially when it is done for such a long period and with such large amounts of money? The third question – is it true that because of the unfulfilled conditions that the Serbian government has taken over, the state of Serbia is suspending co-operation with the "Fiat" and that by the end of the year, or the beginning of next year, the "Fiat" comes out of Kragujevac, or ceases production in Serbia? The question I was thinking of asking both Presidents and Minister Dacic, but as far as I can see it, is the government ready to make a strategy for Serbia's foreign policy, to adopt it, to propose, to present it to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs so that we know what our policy is, which are our foreign policy orientations, because this is how it works today as a wandering from a closed bookstore to a closed bar? Is the national security strategy that is important for Chapter 31 finished, and how much do I remember a working group on this subject was created at the end of 2016? We don't have any documents, and we see that the security of Serbian citizens inside and outside is very vulnerable. What's been going on these last few days is obvious evidence of that, and we don't have a strategy. Why is this a question for the Prime Minister, as president and as wife, also for Mrs Djukic Dejanovic and everyone else, late in the payments to pregnant women and maternity parents? Refunds to companies that pay it instead of the state for September and October last year were made only the other day, which is quite the opposite of what is being told about the birthright. The third thing, why is he late for VAT vomit, the deadline for that is 45 days, and all those who ask by law for VAT return are focused on the tax administration scaring them that if they ask that they get a tax inspection?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31073	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31074	Thank you. Thank you, my dear People's Parliament, for saying in a Colloquial way, on these matters, you have truly given me love. So, whether Etihad is withdrawing from "Er Serbia", but amazing questions are, really, I don't know that there's any truth in them, but they're good, they're quite imaginative. Is Etihad withdrawing from "Er Serbia"? "Er Serbia" is a great question, a question we like to talk about. So despite everything you can read about "Er Serbia" and news about "Er Serbia", misinformation about "Er Serbia", all operational indicators of business "Er Serbia" suggest growth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Er Serbia" had 2,617 million passengers, representing an increase in the number of passengers by 90% compared to 2013. So 2017 compared to 2013 90% increase in the number of passengers in "Er Serbia". The quantity of goods transported, also in 2017, compared to 2013 almost four times more. In 2013, there were 1,618 tonnes, 2017 6,158 tonnes. There's an increase in the number of planes by 23.5%. It's an up-to-date fleet. In 2014, we got 10 new planes. In 2016, the first large-scale Air Bass A 3030 plane was purchased. Not to mention the new routes that were introduced. In any case, in 2017, Er Line Market Leader declared "Er Serbia" to be the leader of the airline market. So as far as "Er Serbia" is concerned, I hope that I have explained enough to you what the "Er Serbia" situation is and that it is operating in line with all the plans and that it is certainly competing in a highly competitive market. Because it competes in such a competitive market, and it has professional management, yes, sometimes it takes unpopular measures, because it's not a political-led company, but that's why we have these results. So "Er Serbia" is healthy and well. Thank you for that question and take care of them. As for the secret agreement for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, let's go first on what today is "Nikola Tesla" Airport compared to what was "Nikola Tesla" Airport. So, if we compare 2010 and 2017, the number of passengers at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, thanks to which - thanks to all these successes, we could have successfully executed a concession tender, namely a public private partnership with the elements of the concession, and get a price of around 1.5 billion euros per 25 years, after which all this total property is returned to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the number of passengers was almost doubled, i.e. increased between 2010 and 2017 by an incredible 198%. The number of take-offs and landings at "Nikola Tesla" airport in 2017 compared to 2010 increased by 33%. The subject matter of goods and mail in 2017 was increased 2.4 times. Total income, which is particularly important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because, as you say, our assets increased 50% from 6.4 to 9.6 billion dinars and net profits in 2017 increased by 69% from 1.9 to 3.3 billion dinar. This only thanks to the change in management and professional management of "Nikola Tesla" Airport for the period when you operated the airport. Thanks to this, and again, to ensure an even more professional management and an increase in the value of property in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to seek a strategic partner through a concession. In order not to sell our assets, but to introduce those who are best at running the airport in order to increase revenue for both small shareholders and the state, to invest their own funds in the airport infrastructure, of course they have achieved profits without any doubt, because they would invest, in 25 years, all of this would return to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A tender has been made, which I believe may not have been seen in Serbia so far, to this extent transparent, where all the world's largest companies and airport management consortiums have appeared. The French "Vans" is no doubt one of the best, if not the world's best company in this business, and that's no less than a billion 461m euros in conservative estimates that the Republic of Serbia will receive from this, and I say, after 25%, it returns. Of these billions and 461m euros - 501m euros, the Republic of Serbia, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, receives a one-time concession fee when the job is closed financially, expected by the end of September. When this business is closed financially, then it's possible to publish a contract. But before that, in accordance with the Law on Public-private Partnerships, the elements of this Treaty will be registered in the Register of Public Contracts held in the Ministry of Finance no later than one month from the date of signature, or 21 April of this year. So access to the contract can be achieved since then, and a complete contract will be transparent when the entire structure is closed financially. In addition to this, I would like to say that international financial institutions are also involved in this business, most likely the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Financial Institution as part of the World Bank and the European Investment Bank has expressed its interest in participating in this contract. So the existence, first -- the transparent procedure is complete. Secondly, obtaining concessions from one of the most respected and best European, but also from the world-wide EU companies, the French company Vans, as well as the participation of international financial institutions, I think it removes any suspicion that something was done here under the law, apart from the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is precisely the kind of partners who have actually ensured that this contract is the best possible. But we continue to insist with our partners that the contract be published as a whole. As for "Fiyat", we are still in constant communication with "Foyate". The government of the Republic of Serbia has two members of the Supervisory Board in the "Fiat". We also, as you know, had the role of mediators in the negotiations between the union and the management of the Fiat and acted to sign a new three-year contract, which certainly provides for the jobs of these people. In the private sector, you can never guarantee that someone will stay, but we will see that the contract signed with the "Fiat" at the time when the "Fiat" came to Serbia certainly does not replicate again, because it was not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we will protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will see that the next contract is in the interest of the citizens, but so that "Fiat" remains, which was not the case before. As far as Serbia's foreign policy strategy is concerned, I think Serbia's foreign policy has never been clearer. If you don't know what our foreign policy is, then it's certainly just your problem, because I think all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia know what the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia is. So our strategic interest is the EU. The Republic of Serbia will not, and there is no need to give up its traditional friendships, but also the friendships that bring us today the economic benefits we need. We need to have more dynamic, faster, sustainable economic development. For that we have to and we want to work together with both Russia and China and the United Arab Emirates and India and the United States, and that is the best possible policy, which is also quite different than the policy in the previous period, when you had a policy that depended on the location you are at that moment. If you happen to be in Brussels, then you have one story, if you're in Washington, you have another story, if you're in Moscow, you have a third story, and outside of these three centers you've never been anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31075	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31076	I'd just like to add, since neither my colleague Dacic, and I don't think Vulin, if I see correctly, is there, so let me explain to you about your question, since you asked about the foreign policy strategy. Generally, it's not a foreign policy strategy, it's a law on foreign affairs and it's a national security strategy. The National Security Strategy includes all foreign policy orientations, meaning states, of course, along with the part relating to security and, of course, the part relating to coordination with common foreign and security policy. We were actually still last year, waiting for a European global strategy, so we wouldn't do the same job twice, we started drawing up a strategy. The draft is complete, so I'm talking about a national security strategy. He, according to my information from his colleagues at the Department of Defense, is at the president's. After that, he goes to a public debate, then the government adopts and then goes to the congregation. Therefore, that information is accurate about the documents you asked for. As far as the law on foreign affairs is concerned, a draft has also been done, but well, it is related to your question, so I believe that he will be the subject of debate in this House as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31077	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31078	I will address the MP on the issue of maternity leave. It is true that late maternity leave is due to the fact that under the current law which is in force, which is the old law before 2012, the employer is obliged to pay maternity leave, to prove that the state has also refunded the employer within five days. Unfortunately, there are irresponsible employers who are more than a year late. In order to correct this, we have provided for an amendment to the Law, which was adopted in December of December, more precisely on December 27th, which takes effect on July 1st, to correct that mistake towards maternity leave and from that moment on, so from July 1, the state will pay off and then there will be no further delay for a single day. The confirmation of all this is that the parenting supplement that the state has in its jurisdiction is not late for a single day. That's how it's gonna be with the maternity leave since July 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31079	I thank Minister Djordjevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31080	Since the Prime Minister started with a coloquial expression of love, to reciprocate Colloquially - you missed the zicera. My first question about Er-Serbia, whether Etihad is staying or leaving, has not been answered. You've given a bunch of data that anyone can already read. As for the airport and the concession, I asked you on what basis, by which law or other legal act you sign secret contracts. It is absolutely pointless for a contract to become available to the public when financial commitments are carried out. The point is, before financial commitments are made, something is public. As for "Fiat", I realized that "Fiat" is leaving, thank you for that answer. As far as the foreign policy strategy is concerned, I would like you to know what the foreign policy strategy of Serbia is. I see that she is gone and that is what we agreed on, which is what you gave in response and Minister Joksimovic. The foreign policy law does not define a strategy, but relations related to the ministry's work. The National Security Strategy is related to foreign policy, but they don't replace foreign policy and I'm glad I got the answer. I received the only substantive answer from Mrs Joksimovic, who told me that the Security Strategy was started, that it has been standing with the president for a very long time and that it is not known when it will be available to MPs, and thank you for that response, that there is no intention of making a strategy for foreign policy, because there is law, which has nothing to do with each other, and that was the only answer. As far as maternity benefits are concerned, I have just asked the question on behalf of the security employers who pay it on time, month after month, and their refund is five, six, seven, eight months late and I am looking forward to a legal solution that will go towards the state paying directly. I think it's a good solution and it's totally fine. So give me the answers to the questions I asked you. The fact that you told me about Etyhad, the Airport and everything else, I've already had a chance to hear it many times, but that's not the answer to my question. Finally, I thought I'd ask some questions about these developments in northern Mitrovica, but since there's no one here who could say anything about it condescendingly, I'm not going to ask that question. No interior minister, no justice minister, no foreign minister, no defence minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31081	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31082	It's hard for me to understand, honourable MP, why do you think the foreign minister is in charge of talking about Kosovo and Metohija? I understand that enough why you think the foreign minister should talk about Kosovo and Metohija, but in this government, the foreign minister will not talk about Kosovo and Metohija. There are other ministers dealing with Kosovo and Metohija, which is an autonomous province within the Republic of Serbia. As for all the other things, I'm glad there's always a transfer from the Citizens' Assembly because I believe the citizens understood everything I wanted to say and all the answers to the question, but I can't talk five times because I don't understand someone, I really can't. I deny time for questions from other MPs. So, if you didn't understand, you didn't understand what to do. Mine is also not to answer for Etyhad, because my job is not to defend and represent the interests of Etyhad. My job is to defend and represent the interests of Serbian citizens. For the interests of Serbian citizens, the most important thing is how Er Serbia operates today. Er Serbia is doing a great job, so we can always find a strategic partner at any time. At this point, Etihad is our strategic partner, he is a loyal strategic partner who has at no time given us any indication that he will come out of Serbia and we are pleased about it, but I cannot talk about what Etihad is up to. I can talk about what we're doing to make Er Serbia stronger, and perhaps you've been defending the interests of private companies in your time. I defend the interests of Serbian citizens. I also ask you for the citizens of Serbia not to spread the panic and the untruth about Fiat. So, I'm asking you. “Fiat” is there, “Fiat” remains, we develop Kragujevac parallelly, we have serious indications for Kragujevac with some other investors, where there are thousands of jobs, instead of giving all the money for a “Fiat” non-transparent contract that has never been published and said – enough for Kragujevac, “Fiat” let’s go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31083	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go. Just sign in, please, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31084	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm really sorry that I have to talk to you about foreign policy, because I really think that the way you asked the question is unequivocally showing how much you know about foreign policy. So, like public policy and state policy. I tried to give you an answer very specific about the question you specifically asked and asked, it's about documents, of course. Each country, that is, each country defines its own public policies, its sectoral policies. Don't throw it at me because I can answer you. It therefore defines its public and sectoral policies as a responsible state through documents which are naturally available to the public. Here, I'll explain. So there is no strategy for foreign policy. It is, and it does not have to exist, because it has been defined primarily through the documents of the national security strategy, and the national security strategy as well as in all EU countries, in changed international circumstances, new challenges and risks that are not only safe in terms of, therefore, classic security challenges are already related to the part of the demographics that are also dealing with, that is, the problems in demographics that also concern the European countries. Therefore, the problems of changing hybrid security threats concerning economic orientation and economic development of the country. These are all parts of the national security strategy. Thus, the foreign policy orientation that comes directly from the national security strategy defines the direction and movement of foreign policy, in all these segments that I have counted for you by economic, political, security, each other. You know, the role of course is an MP to ask, it's my duty to answer. And I'm asking you to get ready and know exactly what you're asking. Because your question really shows that you didn't understand it properly. On the other hand, as you said about the strategy, I don't know how long with the president, no, the President of the Republic as an institution in our country has the role of an in-house body that legitimately participates in the preparation of a draft national security strategy. This document has been with the President of the Republic since the end of 2017, I think it is at the end of November, I am not sure, so I think, given all these complex things that I have tried to inform you about and to adopt knowledge that is not yours obviously, I think it is quite clear that Serbia is working in a responsible way, as a serious and responsible state and every time you have a misunderstanding, please send a question to the ministry and we will prepare you better.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31085	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31086	I listened very carefully when you asked the question and I didn't hear at all who you represent, nor that it was a group of people who paid regularly and later. I'm responsible for two things. First, either you heard wrong, not months, but days, because the state pays off in five working days. You have the opportunity to ask and to look specifically for the company in question, and what I can tell you is that I am responsible for saying that when everyone is seduced by the ministry, they pay off within five days. Everything else is a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31087	Mr. Zivkovic, please have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31088	Two minutes to comment. Let's just stop like this. "Etihad" goes, "Fiat" maybe, and Mrs. Prime Minister doesn't know what the vice president is doing to her. Let me tell you a secret, three days ago, Vice President Dacic was talking to all the ambassadors in Belgrade about Kosovo. No, you said he wouldn't talk. So that's why he should be here. Of course, it's part of the policy to let you know, maybe you don't know, but part of the policy is always lived on multiple sides, so it has to do with both security and foreign policy and finance, and with Natalie. Just because you're nervous, I totally understand. The government's reconstruction always brings anxiety and there's no doubt about it. It's to be recognized by what you look like, it's to be recognized by who's missing in this session. So maybe now the ones who are missing, who will stay from you, who won't, but that's your problem. I'm just asking you to give precise answers. Thank you very much, Mrs Joksimovic. You've opened new perspectives for me, and I hope for you it will remain a place in the next government. But that level of nervousness and disrespect of MPs only speaks of that you are aware that the policy you are leading is a policy that will take another decisive step forward, and that you are standing on the brink of a break-in, and that step forward will be a break-in and a break-in and I hope that you will not pull Serbia behind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31089	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31090	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, I would first of all like to thank the Government and ministers for having made time for them to be with us today at the National Assembly and to answer the questions of the MPs. I would like to, on behalf of the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, to commend the government for its work so far over the past ten months, and to express the expectation that this work will be even better in the coming period. For starters, I'd have two questions, one of which is about the media and one about health care. Of the 73 electronic media, owned by the state in 2014, 50 media went into the privatisation process, of which 34 were privatised, until they found their buyer in 16. Of the media that originally had customers, in six cases contracts were broken, while in media that had no potential owner, bankruptcy proceedings were launched. Some media had no customers for several reasons, e.g. because they had no business space, because they had old and worn-out equipment, because they had debts and are in accordance with the law, as it is anticipated, the distribution of capital to the employees and former employees of the time. All I said was about electronic media that worked as public enterprises, but the privatisation process was about to enter a dozen of the media that were founded and that worked as public institutions, and that was mostly about bilingual and multilingual radio stations, the largest number of which was on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These media, due to the status of a public institution, but also to the fact that in the largest number of cases, cultural activity, except for one exception, could not be privatised, so they all either shut down the activity of the information, but were completely shut down through the liquidation process. By shutting them down, we came to the situation that many municipalities and cities had lost their only local radio broadcaster, and local television broadcasters had never had any, and new competitions for empty frequencies have not been announced in the last few years. Since we all know the importance of local media, I'm interested in whether and when a competition will be launched to issue a permit to radio broadcasters on a local level, of course in environments where there is no emitter and where these frequencies are available. The second question is, how long has it been since the involvement of military medical institutions in the common health system, to facilitate the treatment of civilians in these military-medical institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31091	Thank you, bag buddy. The word is made by Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31092	So the answer to your question would be about the next one. The Ministry of Culture and Information has completed the draft, the texts of the media strategy for the next five years, the working group has signed the text and we expect that in the next short term, perhaps seven to ten days and the public debate, which is scheduled to begin. So, one part of the strategy will also address the issues you have asked, and after adoption of the strategy, it will approach the review of the provisions of media laws and the Law on Public Information and Media and the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services, etc., in terms of their compliance with the country's strategic definitions. The bill by the Government to refer to the National Assembly will also contain provisions concerning solutions for stable and other financing and electronic media and printed media. Therefore, only after the adoption of the strategy will we be able to see which provisions the laws must and should be in line with the circumstances that you have stated, concerning the functioning of the electronic media.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31093	I thank you, Minister Vukosavljevic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31094	I think you probably know, as far as military institutions are concerned, they're already involved in taking care of and working with the civilian population. An example is, let's say, VMA's every Wednesday he works. It's a joint project that already works, consistent with military health facilities we're in constant communication and we're always considering what it is that we can do even more. I can say it's a great collaboration and it's certainly going to continue that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31095	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica, for another three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31096	In essence, I can be pleased with the reply of Minister Vukosavljevic, with the fact that I would really like to draw your attention to these small local media. We had a situation that 10, 15 years ago by law was allowed this way that media broadcasting in multiple languages could work as institutions. When privatization was not recognized, it became a problem. So, in Vojvodina, in a Temerin where I live, which is not to say the southernmost municipality in Vojvodina, next to the town of Novi Sad where there is a significant number of Hungarian nationalities, at this point we do not have a local medium, electronically. So, neither television nor radio, in Hungarian nor Serbian. So I say, there is Beocin, and there are many municipalities in Vojvodina. One request to be recognized. For the Minister of Health, let me say, here's a chance for you to see for yourself that there are MPs in this room who have hallucinations about going to the investor and who have hallucinations that the foreign minister should talk about the situation in Kosovo, but we're used to these people. Since they had been seeing white mice and wine flies so far, we thought that if there was greater co-operation between these military health institutions and civilians, that perhaps, since there is no cure in these civilian institutions, it might be that military health care could help individuals, as people have been in favour of the health situation and MPs for months now, as well as some other political officials in this Assembly and in this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31097	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31098	I just wanted to ask you, I don't think they have hallucinations, I think that's the thing, that they can't walk away and they don't understand, and if you say twice, and I should maybe talk slowly, because if we talk slowly, they'll understand, in styles. The other thing is it's totally fine that someone doesn't know even though he's a folk MP, that it's the job of the foreign minister to see the ambassadors, so again, as Minister Joksimovic says, it's all part of education and I believe the Assembly serves thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31099	Thank you. Another two minutes, MP Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31100	I was truly hoping that this was a hallucination and that we would be able to help the MP in question, but it is evident that it is some hatred of our own country, hatred for all of us here, that is. Most people, so it's obvious that man is incurable. But we'll fight nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31101	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31102	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, I would like to go back to the Strategy to encourage birth. On 18 March 2018, on the site of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, a statement was issued that the Government adopted the Strategy for Inciting Birth and Following the Technical Part, an action plan which implies concrete measures and publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Since the only strategy available to the public is to encourage birth in 2008 and that the text of the newly adopted strategy has not been seen, so it is not available either to the Ministry site or to the Government site, we are informed from numerous statements. Based on these statements that most of you have been making these days, we know that among other things, part of this strategy is a parental supplement that will be for the first child of 100,000 dinars, one time, for the second child – 10,000 per month, within two years, for the third child – 12 thousand per month, over ten years or how journalists calculated 12 thousand euros, and for the fourth child – 18 thousand per month, over ten years, or those 18 thousand euros. I would remind all of us that this honored home of the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children brought about the end of last year, more specifically on 14 December 2017, and came into force on 22 December 2017. Of course it's been applied since July 1st this year. Based on this law, we say that the mother is exercising the right to a parental supplement for the first, second and third children and is also mentioned for the child's equipment, and then we heard that the amount of this cereal is mentioned for each child born of 5,000 dinars. As the bill provides for the height, the way in which the payment of the parental allowance is actually determined by this baby supply standard, the government itself determines, on the proposal of the Minister of Social Affairs, my specific questions are – When did the Government determine these amounts and whether and when, I know that the deadline of six months is due at the end of the first half of this year, when will the payment begin? When did the government determine the amount of this baby kit and when will it start paying off? What is the most important question, because of the various statements the children are referring to, as they have been a statement that they refer to all children born since the beginning of this year, since January 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31103	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31104	Dear MPs, first of all let me thank you for asking and to clarify that the citizens would know one more time. When it comes to the application of the Financial Support Act to the family with children, it has been in force since 27 December. We are currently making amends and supplementing that law which will predict as you have said so and are being applied as of July 1st. This means that for the first child and the second child, and for the second, third and fourth retroactive since 1 January 2018, it will apply from 1 July 2018. So, it's going to be compensated to all the families who, in the meantime, get a second, third and fourth child. When it comes to strategy, I have to tell you that it will be announced very soon, I think maybe tomorrow or as soon as Monday and it will be on the government website and on the Ministry's website. And as far as the action plan is concerned, he's in the design phase, I think we're going to bring him to the government very quickly, so you're going to have insight into it and, seriously, it's not just our action strategy of this measure that we're doing, they're going to follow up on a number of other things that other state authorities are going to have to do and that's going to get into that action plan. It is also necessary to review, given that there is also the issue of certain financial resources that need to be carefully done in order to wake up in the coming years, and so that we do not come into a situation where we do not have a source of funds, which would lead to a problem of paying some of the benefits that will be paid to the families. In any case, what's the biggest news is that mothers and parents expect a much better time, that in the coming months, especially when the law is applied, we will see how and how it is applied. A series of kindergartens, schools and everything else will follow the implementation of this law. I think you'll be happy with how and how the government sees the solution to this whole problem. We expect in the coming years and a change in Serbia's demographic image in one positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31105	I thank Minister Djordjevic. The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31106	The strategy to encourage birth has not yet taken effect eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger" and will expire within a day or two, so that it will, of course, be available to everyone, but the parts of the strategy are in a quite popular way presented to the citizens and in fact all the members of the government have participated in an exceptional contribution to obtaining concreteisation. In order for it to be specifically applied, so that the action plan could be implemented, some laws will be changed from the domain of health, the Law on Financial Support for the Family, which Minister Djordjevic has now spoken of, and we will have great satisfaction and I hope a unanimous opportunity to discuss these measures in this House before 1 July when the measures take effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31107	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31108	I'm just going to add one thing, it's good to see that we're really working on this team, one thing that's important and that we've been distracted by some parent associations and they're absolutely right. We're going to change the VAT Act, because we didn't do the transitional and final provisions well, so since the Protection Act, the financial support of families with children, will come in from July 1st, then all those children, in fact, born by July 1st, the Tax Administration will continue to account for the return of VAT for them, so that they don't have any, so the Tax Administration will continue to do so until July 1st, so it will be extended, then the tax administration's work for another two years. So we'll change that too. One more thing, it looks like a little thing, but I believe it really isn't, and compared to the parents of newborn babies, this is all we do in terms of electronic administration. So you know that we have now released the second phase of this project – Baby, welcome to the world. This is currently being done in Leskovac, Zrenjanin, Belgrade and Loznica, we are now in Smederevo and by the end of September all maternity homes in Serbia will be required to implement this project, which, with the personal card alone, will immediately register a baby for proof of residence, a birth certificate and a health insurance card, immediately apply for a parental supplement, so no additional documents are needed. It all ends right away in the maternity ward and you just get a text message on your phone that money will be on your tab within 45 days, which is really important because it was one of those things where you had to take three days off from work to go through all the counters and collect all the papers. So we're working on it, but it's certainly the least we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31109	Thank you. My colleagues, Kovac, you've been added three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31110	I thank you for your answers. One of my next questions would be that, in fact, if we wanted to retroactively apply these measures, we had to change the Law on financial support for the family with children and when it would happen, but now I realized very soon and before July 1st. I've just found that certain, meaning transitional and final provisions say that children born before the application of this July 1st law will be subject to old amounts, but I'm glad to hear that they will still be referred to as new ones. My next question is also related, of course, to this topic and concerns some of the statements I have sent these days, various ministers, now specifically Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and it is also related to the strategy of inciting birth and out-of-body fertilisation. You said that one of the thoughts is that from now on those parents who want another child will have the opportunity to spend on the Republic Health Insurance Fund, so they go to out-of-body insemination, if the journalists got it well, if I understood correctly, it was said that it was about those parents who got their first child out of out-of-body fertilisation. My question may also be for Minister Loncar, since you said in your answer earlier that it was definitely about these questions – were parents facing secondary sterility? So, were those couples who already had one child who had a natural path, but last year, they faced secondary sterility and opened up the possibility that at the expense of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, they would still go to out-of-body fertilisation? Since I am from Zrenjanin, I would like to cite the example of Zrenjanin, which is precisely a rule on criteria for the exercise of the right to financial aid for the out-of-body fertilisation of the town of Zrenjanin in 2017, found that the right to financial aid for out-of-body insemination can be achieved by couples who do not have children and women who have a secondary sterility, who have one child, but who do not have the conditions by natural means of getting another child, the World Health Organization says that the right to health, and therefore the right to reproductive health is one of the basic human rights, and unfortunately we are facing the problem of sterility in Serbia between 15 and 17% of the couples of reproductive age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31111	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31112	Of course, I thank you again for this extremely important question. For about 600,000 couples who are present and who are watching closely, indeed the real questions concerning one of the most important feelings that a person can ever have, parenting, and for some unfortunately it is possible to achieve exclusively biomedically assisted insemination. We, at this point, appreciateing, of course, the financial potential, indeed as a government, have come to the conclusion that it is possible, above all, to move the border at national level for 42 years and that the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund is financed from the Republic Fund. We also estimated that the greatest chance to become parents, for the second time, is that those who are exclusively in this way, from biomedically assisted fertilisation and this process become parents and simply taking into account both the financial opportunities and the need to make it possible for as many couples as possible to become parents in the usual way, we managed with some reality, but we maintained and maintained constant communication with local self-government units in the budget that are not large. The largest number of units of local self-government brings their own programs, including biomedically assisted fertilization, and we are just suggesting what you said, as we suggested, that in the event that twins are born from the fourth pregnancy, one of them will be provided from the national level with 18,000 by the end of the tenth year of life, and we suggest that the other be provided from the unit of local self-government territory on which they live. So, we think that these complementary programmes that are national and local, and therefore, with the chairmanship of the community of municipalities and cities, we have had very concrete and open talks, we think that this will be a real incentive at this point, and of course next year we will go to provide a larger fund and we will take into account your suggestion, or the wish of a large number of MPs to stimulate this way of being a parent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31113	Thank you. Comrade Kovac, you have two minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31114	I thank you for your answers, in the hope that more and more babies will actually be born in the future. As a final comment, unfortunately, I would just remind myself of some demographic data, first of all in Vojvodina, which is that based on the ageing index of the population of AP Vojvodina at a more recent stage of democratic aging and that in Vojvodina of 45 local self-government, as many as 32 local self-governments fall into demographically threatened or demographically threatened areas. The most difficult situation is, as we heard from the beginning, in rural areas. I really agree, and I think a special scenario of development support is needed for all these areas. Unfortunately, according to the 2011 census, the most represented are two-member households, single households, with a share in the total number of households of more than 22%, then only three-member and four-member households in Vojvodina. Viewed by regions, single-family households, married or single-marriage couples without children are precisely the most represented in the Vojvodina region, more than 28%. Today, on the Committee on the Rights of the Child, we discussed that we are aware that in the whole country, meaning in the Republic of Serbia, the average age grew by 40.7, the average age, to almost 43 years. On the other hand, we must stress that for the implementation of all these natal measures, it is an extremely important infrastructure, schools, health homes and we cannot talk about family protection without quality health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31115	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31116	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome Mr. Secretary. I am pleased and I hope that this practice that the government is coming will be continued regularly and the more frequent this practice, the less tension it will be and the more opportunity to do something quality and say it, because it is an important control function of Parliament. As you can see, it's not so bad and it doesn't hurt. But it's very important that everyone can come to a word, to a greater or smaller extent, never enough. I'm sorry there aren't a few ministers I'd like to say, but I'm even more sorry if we've been talking here for an hour and a half, and there's no mention of events in Kosovo and Metohija. So I will need the Prime Minister, as the most politically responsible person, to address the issue, and there are many issues and dilemmas about it, as is the great regret that the Serbian Parliament has not discussed it since Oliver Ivanovic's murder, not even now, after these most recent unsavourable scenes in Kosovo Mitrovica. With that in mind, Mrs. Brnabic, do you know whose statement this is and whose these are saying: "I think our people in Kosovo and Metohija have reason to be satisfied. We've reached good agreements. Tonight, the Community of Serbian Municipalitys is being established?" Those are the words of 25 August 2015, the words of then the Prime Minister, your predecessor and current president, Alexander Vukic. So, in August 2015, he congratulated the citizens of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija on the establishment and decision to establish a Serb municipality community. That same evening, his close associate and then and current head of the Kosovo and Metohija Office, announced his famous words about five to zero for Serbia, how we won and how the loser has the right to be angry. Not to say that from 2015 it seems to be just a rerun but a previous victory, of course, in quotes from 2013, when the first Brussels Agreement was signed, and this was the second Brussels Agreement. So, five years later, these famous Serb municipalities are gone, and we saw for ourselves, and Mr. Djuric himself could see for himself, unfortunately, for both his and our own, on his own skin what and how the thing with the Serbian thing in northern Kosovo and Metohija stands. What happened to Mr. Đurić, which is this vandal act and this massacre and grumbling that he suffered, is part of it, of course, and the result of the hasty, wrong, naive, and what other word to use, I'm not going to make it any harder now, the signing of the Brussels Agreement. I think it's a political mistake and responsibility for those who took part in it. I'm interested in your opinion on this, and what does the government intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31117	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31118	Thank you. First, I want to say that the government and members of the government absolutely in this respected home do not spread tension. We are trying, with all due respect, to answer questions and to give MPs the answers that we as Government are obliged to give. I don't think it's tensions, but some completely incorrect information is spreading some others, but it's up to us to really explain to the citizens that this information is incorrect, because this information is important for the everyday lives of citizens. So I have to try to explain myself to people. And I'm sorry. I'm just glad citizens don't trust these people already, so my job is so much easier. As to whether I know who made that statement, you see, that statement is true today. She's more accurate today than she was back then. So the Brussels Agreement was the complete victory of the Republic of Serbia. The proof that he was the complete victory of the Republic of Serbia is that Pristina does not want to implement him. If he had been the defeat of the Republic of Serbia, well, Pristina would have implemented it first, I guess. Well, we insist today on the Brussels Agreement. Is it the Republic of Serbia's fault that Pristina did not implement something they negotiated and signed? Is it our fault that Brussels, I must say, doesn't respect its own signature and time and energy enough to guarantee the Brussels Agreement? It would look very different today if the Brussels Agreement had been implemented and implemented on time, as agreed. I absolutely think the words you quoted, and thank you for them, that they mean today and that they're more true today than they were back then. And today it shows how accurate they were. So, the Brussels Agreement is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We will continue to insist that the Brussels Agreement is implemented because why should we continue to talk about anything else if someone has shown that they will not, agree, sign, ratify and then will not implement it. So how can we keep talking about anything else? So I absolutely think that we won five to zero then, because if they'd won five to zero, that agreement would have been implemented long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31119	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31120	Like I said, it's good to talk, even when we disagree. But I cannot agree, unfortunately, with this finding that you have now said that the Brussels Agreement is the complete victory of the Republic of Serbia. I think the bitter fruits of that victory, unfortunately, we look at and see Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija all these years. However, I agree in the second part of what you said, which is that it's pointless to talk about anything further until what's before is applied. Right, but I think that's the conclusion that should have been reached much earlier, and not just you, but your predecessors as Prime Minister. In other words, already Mr. Ivica Dacic as prime minister, and then, of course, Mr. Alexander Vukic, so do you, because you, too, here you are for a while, had to come to the same conclusion that you are now saying, and now it is not clear how hard it is. So, it is pointless to make any agreement, the agreement at the market, the business, whatever trade, and let alone the agreement concerning the most important state and national issue of the Republic of Serbia, in such a way that you, or we, the state of Serbia, are obliged to apply everything, literally everything, painful and, in my opinion, unacceptable things that essentially mean the expansion of Pristina's territorial integrity to the whole territory, i.e. to the north, including the abolition of the judiciary of local, security forces, of course, the assignment of a telephone number, an international telephone number to Pristina, or Kosovo, without them doing anything at that time. Some of my colleagues, some would use much more difficult qualifications in my place, Mrs. Brnabic. You would mention betrayal, sales, surrenders, high treason. I don't want that. Here, my colleague Slavisha throws it at me. But I'm telling you, at best, it's about naivety, incompetence and incompetence. You can't negotiate anything like that, let alone the highest question. I'm not saying it wasn't a good will. I just think it was a mistake. Were you deceived, were you deceived, was it pressure? Did someone, perhaps, pay or determine permission to form a government in 2012? I'm not getting into that. But here, I ask you specifically – what are you going to do about it now? Are you ready to accept that the shameful application of the Brussels Agreement, late in the form of a Community of Serb municipalities and that it is a compensation for, say, giving Kosovo a chair to the UN or for signing legally binding agreements? So that's something you should have done five years ago, four years ago, three years ago, and not given it to you now, or someone, serve... Here, you got at the end of that community of Serb municipalities and now, come on, let's move on, give it to Kosovo, acknowledge Kosovo's independence. So, I mean, the Foreign Ministry has confirmed this to me repeatedly in response to my question that it is out of the question of Kosovo's chair to the UN and that neither directly nor indirectly recognition of Kosovo's independence, and that means signing legally binding agreements, because it is known what a legally binding agreement between the two equal sides means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31121	I thank you, counterpart Rex has the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31122	I have to go back to you saying that today we are harvesting bitter fruits of what was then agreed, so that is proof that it was not Serbia's victory. I have to remind you again, it seems to me again that we have a complete misunderstanding. Therefore, the Brussels Agreement has not been implemented. You can't say the Brussels Agreement is bad, so because he's bad, we have the bitter fruits of the Brussels Agreement today that hasn't been implemented. If the Brussels Agreement had been implemented, we wouldn't have bitter... Today, we have the bitter fruits of not having the strength in the EU and partners of other Pristina and the will to implement the Brussels Agreement. So, on the other hand, it's also, but really, it's totally one of the simplest logic, it's a deduction. It follows that the Brussels Agreement was in Serbia's interest. If he were in the interest of Pristina and at the expense of Serbia, well, why do you think Pristina would not implement it? What makes you think they wouldn't have the support of their partners if he didn't do it? On the contrary, therefore, the Brussels Agreement was Serbia's victory. We stand still today and what our plan is, that we always return to the Brussels Agreement being implemented. Pristina, I guess, will not implement it because they see the Brussels Agreement as a victory for Serbia, complete victory, diplomatic victory and victory for dialogue and political skill. I'll give you another example so you know what it's like... You see, we've had in the past, please, it's really important, so if I can just a little bit, agreements that have been reached, agreed and fully implemented, but these agreements have not just been in Serbia's interest. That is why one of the most obvious examples, for example, was implemented in the government when Borko Stefanovic negotiated it and with integrated border management. It was agreed, signed, immediately implemented, because it was a completely bad agreement for Serbia, completely bad. So, the agreement said, in an agreement negotiated at the time by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, two words are used by the Boarder and the Banders, and now they all return to that border as the border, not as an administrative crossing, because that's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia said they could do. When you have such agreements, then everyone runs to implement them. That is an indicator, it is an indication that the Brussels Agreement is good for Serbia because it has not been implemented. When you have agreements that are good for Pristina, they are immediately implemented with the full support of the international community. Let's not talk about worse things in those integrated border management when it was agreed that Eulex would be present at all the crossings of the administrative, but that wasn't clearly enough, so Eulexa is gone today, but it's the Kosovo police, and we don't even have communication with Eulex. When it's so negotiated fantastically, it's implemented in three days. There is no problem, the Brussels Agreement is not implemented because it is in Serbia's interest and because it is well negotiated and because it is firmly negotiated only given the interest of citizens of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia, as it is. In the end, just to say, you mention what our plan is, our plan is to do everything we need to do to implement the Brussels Agreement. The Serb municipalities' communities as compensation for Kosovo's chair in the UN. Please, how can you ask that? The Serb municipality community is part of the Brussels Agreement. It's negotiated. This must be implemented because the agreements must be respected, because today, thanks to the Brussels Agreement, it is part of the EU's common security policy. There is no further negotiations on the Serb Community, so you give the Serb Community, we will give, and you will give something else. We're not giving anything else. So we're not giving anything else. The deal stands, and it's over. What you're asking me is another proof that the Brussels Agreement was good for the Republic of Serbia and that it was brave, after all, from the National Assembly that went through it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31123	Thank you. Comrade Vukadinović, you have an extra two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31124	We definitely disagree, but at least let's see what we disagree on. It is obvious that you are using the words “not implemented. ” Unfortunately, the Brussels Agreement was implemented at all points concerning Serbia's obligations, and that's bad. It is not implemented in those five concerning the obligations of the Albanian, or Kosovo side. That says it wasn't a good deal. As for the other things you mention, I have to remind you Mrs. Brnabic and the Serbian public, whatever you think of that previous government, in 2012 there was no limit, no customs, there are my colleagues, on Brnjak and Jarinj. All this, including the implementation of these Bork agreements, including implementation, was all done by this government, i.e. after 2012. It's my opinion, unfortunately, that's why she came to power. We'll talk about it. I support your firmness and hardness of voice, but I'm afraid it's somewhere undivided after a visit to Mogerini or a conversation, calling some ambassadors. Either way, Mrs. Mihajlović, we should part ways without asking you – what about "Belgrade on Water"? Right now in April, the first towers were to be moved in on promises from the highest place, i.e. President Vukic, to move into the first tower "Begrada na Voda". As far as I can see, we have more Belgrade in the water, not "Belgrade on Water". I'm worried about something else and I'm done with it. Is there a danger, it is your portfolio, that Serbia must pay for the foam because it has not carried out part of some infrastructure works and obligations under the "Belgrade on Water" contract? So, it's a bad deal, I'm afraid sooner or later, maybe neither of you will be sitting here... (President: I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. )......................................................................................................... where we are now sitting, the state of Serbia will already have to pay for the penalty. You'd better break it up in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31125	Comrade Vukadinovic, I think I was in the opening part of the session, before I started asking parliamentary questions I was very clear and precise about the course of the session. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare a two-minute answer, not to ask additional questions. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31126	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, ministers in the government, unfortunately not all ministers, and I don't know for what reason there is no Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Stefanovic. You did not inform us by letter that it would not be, and I was just about to ask him the first question, so in his absence, I ask you, President, to answer, and the question is about what information is related to Oliver Ivanovic's murder. I asked the question, as a parliamentary question, three weeks ago and today I just received an answer from Minister Stefanovic, who only wrote in response that the ministry had notified the Eulex and UNMIK Office that it would participate in the investigation, that two meetings were operational on the case and that the Ministry of Justice had also referred, through the Institute, a request for mutual legal assistance, to stand at the disposal of authorities temporarily in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. What is not in this answer, which was part of my question, is – who Oliver Ivanovic pointed to as a threat to his personal safety right before his murder? That's what we found out, we found out that he was in the B.I.A., that he had raised doubts and that he was worried about the threats coming from which side, but we never got and heard of whom he pointed out. Other questions are also for ministers who are not here, so please again, Mrs. Brnabic, to answer, which is – what will the government do based on three indicators that there is no fight against corruption in Serbia? There are three examples. The first was the "Transparency International" in its 2017 annual report, which found that there were no application and improvement of anti-corruption laws in Serbia, that increases in perceptions of corruption among citizens and that Serbia fell five places on the list of countries fighting and fighting corruption. The second is the report "Greka", the Council of Europe's body for the fight against corruption, which it found several weeks ago that none of the 13 recommendations from July 2015 was fully complemented and implemented by Serbia. Lastly, the Intergovernmental Anti-money Laundering Organisation put Serbia on the list with 11 countries in the world that have shortcomings in the system in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. These countries include Ethiopia, Iraq, Syria and Yemen. What are the reasons why the government doesn't do anything by all these indicators in the fight against crime and corruption?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31127	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31128	As for Oliver Ivanovic's murder, I think you've received a clear answer from the MUP. I can certainly repeat that answer. So we've done everything in our power. Unfortunately, we have no direct control over the territory, where direct control was lost in 2008. I really don't think you can blame this government or the previous government for that. Maybe we could blame someone, but certainly not this government. Everything we could do, everything that was in our power, we did and did. We continue to insist and have communication with all services dealing with this issue, as well as that we have our own investigation, as well as the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, has actually launched an investigation. I don't think this subject should be completely pointlessly politicized. I think it's important enough and it's a big enough tragedy for us all to work together to make enough pressure for the killers to find each other. As for fighting corruption, I still think this government is working on it. I think that in addition to proposing a really large number of laws to the National Assembly for adoption in order not only to implement all the recommendations of these international bodies, but to actually, really, in practice to fight corruption, one of the great examples that we are really trying to introduce transparency in the state administration is electronic administration. There's really no other way for the state administration and what we're doing to be more transparent than the e-Government, and it's seen on building permits. Why is Serbia 10, 15 years late in that? Why hasn't this been done before, when it's a perfectly healthy mind, introducing common sense into the state administration? That's what I might ask you. Why we were the only country to welcome 2016, which even the citizens' books had no electronic form to connect them with two registers, to show citizens everything we do in the state administration and that they wouldn't have to take papers on counters and that someone was blackmailing them with 50 or 100 euros to keep their case at the top, but now it's all transparent. I really do have to ask you that in April we will connect all the databases of the state administration to the judicial databases so that citizens can have full transparency and how the courts work and when a case has come and whether or not it is solved and how much it stands and who it stands for. I think in the most practical way possible we are dealing with the fight against corruption. Something that hasn't been done in 15 years. As for FATFA and Serbia's position under enhanced monitoring, it is entirely and I think it was quite obvious that it was a political decision, a political decision of a couple of excellencies. Serbia implemented 35 out of 40 FATFA recommendations. In the meantime, we adopted six or so proposals from that report, and you adopted six system laws. I will remind you who – the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property stemmed from the criminal offence, the Law on International Limitation Measures, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, Terrorism and Corruption, which will be applied from 1 April 2018. Then, from the very adoption of that report, we have, indeed, been unhappy by Serbia, but which shows some other different pressures, politically on Serbia over some other things, as the government has finished, adopted and sent to the Assembly three other drafts of the law for your consideration. This is the Act on the Completion of the Accounting Act, the Law on the Completion of the Law on Audit and the Draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Conformity Act. When you say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing nothing about it and that it is not fighting corruption, I will tell you with a really clean heart that there is no government that has fought more practically against corruption than this government and the previous government, and I think it is quite clear. After all, and to really go back to this, there is one thing that affects me about Kosovo and Metohija is that it is a national issue and a question that is not a matter of politics and individual political parties. It is a national issue that we should gather around and I will say it is not true, not to say it is a lie, that Serbia has fulfilled everything in the Brussels Agreement. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know, and the MPs if they don't know, then they should know. So, it is not a fulfilled part of energy because that part depends on the Serb municipalities' communities directly, but it is also true, which I am fully proud of, that most of the Brussels Agreement, the Republic of Serbia has implemented and I am proud of it, because the Republic of Serbia has put a signature on the agreement, and Serbia is a serious and responsible state and a stable and predictable partner and when we make a decision, we agree and sign, then we implement it, unlike some others. Finally, please, really both for Kim and for how we can now have control over... Come on, I don't want that. Never mind. Nothing. Enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31129	Thank you. MP Marko Djurisic. You have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31130	I hope the citizens could now hear what kind of policy the government and its president are leading. So, first we heard the praises of how we implemented everything in the Brussels Agreement, and the others are not because the agreement is good for Serbia. Then we heard a sentence – no, we did not implement everything from the Brussels Agreement because it is not good for Serbia. Then the next sentence, we are a trusted partner, and we carry out all that we sign. Why don't you make a deal with yourself if you are or not? Do you meet what you're signing or not? And the facts say you didn't. And that you don't, because your results against corruption are such that she put us on that list now, now based on your work scores. Now for political or other reasons, we've been on that list before. Now you have a GREK report that none, no recommendations are respected as we committed in 2015. That's your score. And when you talk about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the government and the ability to manage Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija was lost in 1999 after the Kumanovo Agreement. And who was sitting in government then? What parties made the government and what policy was being conducted in Serbia in 1999? What are you talking about here? In 2008, when independence was declared, until 2012 in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbian prosecutors, Serbian judges, conducted investigations, ruled. People went to jail, you then let them out of prison to repeat crimes. And then you signed the Brussels Agreement, and you completely put Kosovo's north in the legal system of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the result of the Brussels Agreement, the signing of the Brussels Agreement. And you can't cloud people's truth here. After the Brussels Agreement and after coming to power, because you promised to fulfill what we didn't want to fulfill. You signed the Brussels Agreement, much less than we wanted to accept. It's true, you can't repeat lies here forever. When you come be ready to hear the truth and to hear the truth, please have ready answers, not by who knows which time, a hundred times repeated lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31131	The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31132	What Serbia has done in terms of fighting corruption, the best I think is maintained, and I think it would be my favorite, reflecting the fact that in the plenary assembly in Paris, the clearest and loudest European Commission has stepped forward against Serbia being included in that list. Next to the European Commission, 15 other countries in the world. Switzerland, meaning countries that are not traditionally our partners and Switzerland and Argentina and South Africa and good Russia and China and Turkey, so it was a political game that was fine, Serbia lost because it did not want to negotiate on national issues that are much more important than that. We're doing our job. We do our job the best we can, behind this are all these countries that have said that this report does not paint the right state of things in Serbia and you know it well. But, well, it doesn't matter, I understand the political struggle. As for when Kosovo is lost or not lost, I am not getting too deep into it. In 2008, independence was declared, unilaterally declared independence, in 2008. After that year 2008, as I set an example for you, you negotiated certain agreements that were immediately implemented, immediately implemented. They were all responsible, except for Serbia. Well, that's why Pristina hastened to implement them and all their partners. One agreement agreed by the previous government has not been implemented. Why? Because it unequivocally defends the interest of the Republic of Serbia, but it is signed and we will ask it to be implemented. When the agreements that were good for Pristina were agreed, they were signed by the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia and they were implemented immediately and this is what creates serious problems for us today for both Serbian citizens and other non-Albanian nationalities at KIM. That's true, but it's also true what really, incredibly surprised me, the other day, when we heard the former president of the Republic, the former president of the Republic, who when Kosovo's unilateral independence was declared, which was two, three days after the protests in Belgrade fled to Romania. Who came to his citizens after Kosovo's declaration of independence in front of a room outside a curtain in Romania, in Bucharest to talk to its citizens. The former president of the Republic came out much clearer about my advice on creative industries, which hit him far more than Kosovo and Metohija and independence from Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31133	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31134	Well, you know how, when I listen to your political party and you, especially when you talk about Kosovo and Metohija, I just can't without reacting. So, you should not be angry with the government of the Republic of Serbia, any member or member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia why Kosovo is in the situation it is, because your president, Boris Tadic, has taken many steps that Kosovo has taken from Serbia, many steps. Let me remind you, therefore, when he transferred from the UN the story about Kosovo to the EU, when he gave his initiative to the International Court of Justice. These are all, and together with all Jeremiah, and with all that talk quarrels with all the countries. That's your president, Boris Tadic. So people and citizens of Serbia know it very well, they won't know you, one at a time. Two, when you talk about the Brussels Agreement, it was the only way to fix things and protect our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, only that the citizens of Serbia know who did what when and what Boris Tadic was doing and what he is now saying. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31135	Thank you. National MP Marko Djurisic, you have an extra two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31136	I'm glad that the Vice-President of the Government, although nothing has been addressed to her in this discussion, and I believe she has something important to say, probably in light of this announced reconstruction, but let's talk about true data. You said Kosovo declared independence in February 2008. At this point, no negotiations under the auspices of the EU were held, but exclusively by the UN. Three months later, the state of Serbia organised on the territory of all Kosovo and Metohija local elections under the laws and the Constitution of Serbia, so much about what policy was being led then, what policy is being conducted today. So much was the influence of the state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija in March, May and all months and years until you came to power. Then Kosovo police who did not exist in northern Kosovo and Metohija by 2012, and customs officers at administrative crossings and taxes and taxes, all that goes into Kosovo and Metohija's budget. This is all the result of your policy since 2013. And what happened during the rally in Belgrade and who was where he was and whether Boris Tadic was in Romania to strengthen that bloc, those European countries that are using you today, five countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija to this day, while your president here led fans to burn down embassies in Belgrade. That was your policy. You don't understand what it means to fight corruption is saying enough about the way you came to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't have time to talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31137	Thank you. I ask the MPs to respect the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the follow-up session. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31138	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am very sorry that the controversy when the entire government is present is heading in the direction it encourages Albanians in Kosovo and harms Serbs. This way of controversy or discussion gives right to those who wrote a statement after the events three days ago at KIM that there are two sides. There are no two sides, there is only one side there, which also violates the Brussels Agreement, and that side receives assistance from several EU states, from America and all of us, who are sitting in this parliament, we need to condemn what happened, an attack on Mark Djuric several days ago in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Also, none of the opposition asks, here, I will now ask – let's ask Germany and Angela Merkel why they ask Serbia to impose sanctions on Russia, and the other day Angela Merkel gave the green light to move North Stream 2 and to import gas from Russia to Germany. The question of the JS Parliament Club and we ask the Government to ask America whose name was Montgomery when he was an ambassador to Serbia, when he broke up Yugoslavia, when he helped NATO bomb Serbia and whose name was former Deputy Director of the CIA Steven Mer, who accepted me in America, as former Deputy Director? You know what he told me? He told me -- when you return to Serbia, tell them to annul the Brussels Agreement, that is, not to admit anything you signed. That's what Montgomery told me the other day. Let's ask America who they work for today, and who they represented back in 1999 and 2000? I would like to ask whether Serbian tractors that are branded in Europe, IMT and IMR will be produced in Serbia? I would like to ask Minister Alexander Antic what is the criteria for social assistance for citizens who are exempt from paying for gas and electricity? I would like to ask the Minister of Sports – is it, and if not, to do so on behalf of Serbia to send a request to international sports institutions that never again in the draw in one pot or in one bowl be there two national teams, Albania or Albanians from Kosovo, with Serbia, because it has been terribly disturbing so far, especially after the events in Kosovo and Metohija three days ago? So, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who deal with politics, we need to see how we can help the government. As I recall, earlier years and previous governments did not have the opportunity to ask the ministers what they wanted and get the right answers. I want to ask the Minister of Economy or the Ministry of Economy to make information on what it is that can be exported from Serbia to some countries. Today, an ambassador to Belarus came to Jagodina, and he told me that many things can be exported from Serbia to Belarus, and that our producers who work in production do not know which items they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31139	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31140	Thank you. I must say that I fully agree with you, I think that about Kosovo, as I said, we should talk differently. I think it's a national issue, and I think it's a question that must certainly overcome petty political interests. As far as I'm concerned, the ministers will take over one thing that's important, as far as tractors are concerned. So we're investing more and more in domestic companies, in small, medium-sized enterprises. I try to go, as often as I can, to visit local self-governments, and whenever I go to local self-governments, I go and visit in fact our domestic businessmen, such as KEPO in Koserić, who employs more than 170 people, such as Bane Komerc in Leskovec, with more than 200 people, with 80% of the production exported to Western Europe, as I am going to India tomorrow to open the drive of a Kragujevac investor in India with about 70 people. We are trying to strengthen our businessmen, because they have potential, they can do what is important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is to try to solve some of our major brands, our names that were important to Serbia and important to citizens. So I am particularly pleased that the government of the Republic of Serbia managed to finish work with Galenika in November last year and fantastically. In total, there were 41m euros, 16m paid for Galenika, plus all obligations from commercial banks for 25m euros. We're monitoring how that contract is implemented now, so I hope Galenika is coming to life soon. Magnochrom is something we've just finished, last week two parts of Magnochroma were bought, what's most important is bought from companies that are going to start production there. For the third largest part of Magnochrom at this point, we know that there are interested investors, only to negotiate the price, but again, it is important to start production. At this point we plan, what we know from these investors, to employ between 600 and 700 people in Magnochrom in the Kingdom. It's nothing compared to what Magnochrom was, but it's not a little bit for the King, and especially because we're returning one mark, we're bringing the citizens back to believe that we can, that Serbia is getting off their knees. The engine and tractor industry is the same thing we worked on together, a bankruptcy that lasted too long, that we got involved in to finish. We have an investor, an Indian investor who, even when it was in November, what year, when then Prime Minister Vukic was in India, spoke to an investor who was interested in IMT, who guaranteed to start production of tractors. The sale is on Monday, April 2nd, and we all look forward to seeing if it goes well. If it passes, it is really one thing for Serbia of great importance and we will share it with you, of course. So that's something that we focus on, as is finding a strategic partner for Bor, an investment of about $330 million, which we're looking for at this point, which we also hope will end by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31141	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you for this question, Mr Markovic, for one simple reason, if there are symbols, then it is certain for the Serbian agriculture of IMT and tractors that are in the 1970s, in the 1980s, as they would say, burning and burning this part of Europe and the North African continent. We were found by a difficult legacy in terms of IMT, declared bankrupt. The company is bankrupt, there's no production, there's literally nothing, except some old castings that existed, that couldn't be used for anything at the time. To make evil bigger, there was absolutely no idea about IMT. Few people believed in the story that this could even come into this situation to sell at all. I am together to work with the Prime Minister and Minister Knezevic on this project. Last year, in November, on the basis of talks President Vukic had in India went to three of the world's top ten tractor manufacturers. We've been to talk in Tafe, we've been to talks in Mañara and Sunaliki. A few days in India, we talked intensively about IMT, and they received us, so to speak, those decision-makers, the top representatives of these three companies who have an interest in developing production for one simple reason. Now I'm going to say a few things, in Southeast Europe today almost and we don't have a tractor manufacturer, except for some small factories that produce 200 to 300 tractors on an annual basis. All Southeast European countries either now receive funds from the IPARD, such as Serbia, or will do so in the future, in the next few months or a year, as the word with Albania, such as the word with Montenegro and perhaps with BiH. What's this about? In fact, there was an accent thrown on a large allocation of financial resources to boost demand for tractors and for machinery. If everything works out on Monday, we have a letter on Tafe's intentions, which bought out the paperwork, there should be 800 people hiring. Of course, I'm talking about future time, it always carries with it certain risks, and I hope we don't have that here, that we can solve this project. It's about selling part of IMT property on a base that should be a platform for future plant for tractor production. These tractors are extremely interesting for the space of North Africa, for the area of the Middle East, because they have proved to be longevity, not to seek a high degree of training of people, or farmers, in order to manage them. They're long-term tractors. This is what we need and what we hope to accomplish in the coming period. Taffee has one of its factories in Turkey's space, but it is his idea to further develop that platform in Serbia's space. As this all ends, we'll see in the days ahead. You all know that once Serbian engineers from IMT went to India and built tractors in India, in some other places within the IMR. What's important is that everything on the same platform "Masei Ferguson" was done. I'll tell an anecdote, if you'll let me. Before I left for India, I asked the seven heads, mind heads, who ran IMT for 20-30 years – what would you people do if you were in our position now? He says, he wouldn't, it's a gentleman, who later served as Minister of Industry in the old government of Yugoslavia, run long IMT and technical director of IMT. He says, without any thought, we'd go to India and settle everything with Taffea. I ask, "Why Taffee?" Why not someone else? I said, count on us to have an open and transparent procedure, can't we directly choose who comes, with all the wishes of doing the best we can? It says "Tafe" and IMT have similar platforms. It is easy, in a short period of time, to implement production. What people are saying is that within six months, from the moment of sale, it is possible to establish the first production of tractors in Serbia's space. I hope we can work it out. Why did the increased interest of investors in the production of tractors in Serbia also arise? You remember, Mr. Markovic, that last year we had one call for tractors, we had 2,345 applications for tractors, where the state gave 50% of the funds for new tractors. That's what we did for the vegetables, for the orchards, for the vineyards, we didn't have the whole system. Of that, 2100 people got the right to get a tractor and the state paid them off. Now on January 4th, we made a call and it came out, and I'm going to tell you exactly how much, within the IPARD, almost 400 people who are interested, actually 396 requests we have for IPARD funds for the supply of tractors. Why am I saying this? It's not about the story, it's about the demand. When there's demand, there's interest in investors. The Republic of Serbia is one of the priorities for this government to get the production of the Serbian tractor as soon as possible, which we will export to the space of Southeast Europe, North Africa and the Middle East. The days ahead will give us answers to this question. I hope we can make it through this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31143	I thank Minister Nedimovic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31144	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, thank Mr. Markovic for asking. I deeply believe that one of the measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course with the support of this parliament, is this segment of assistance and support for vulnerable categories of people in Serbia, people with the lowest income in Serbia that we realise through the energy-hazarded consumer regulation. One mechanism through which the Government through the Ministry of Mining and Energy, from the position of the budget, provides support for 73,000 families across Serbia, 73,000 families that exercise the right to a child's allowance or the right to financial or social assistance or families that depend on the number of members of the household fall into or fit the limits we have set. On this basis, they are entitled to 120 to 250 free kilowatts of electricity per month or in the winter season up to 75 metres of cubic gas per month. So I repeat, 73,000 families in Serbia each month get between 120 and 250 kilowatts of electricity or up to 75 metres of cubic gas, free of charge as a form of support for Serbian citizens because of their poorer material status and the problems these families face. I deeply believe that this is one way that we, as a society and state, show both humanity and solidarity, the measure that shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I deeply believe Parliament as a whole, because Parliament has approved the budget of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and for 2018 in the amount of one billion dinars for these needs, means that we are really paying great attention to all those vulnerable categories of our society, which we really need and through which we show that as people, as politicians, but also society as a whole, we have this one sense of understanding of their need and that we are making life easier for them and that we are the kind of support they need. To that I would add another segment to which I am extremely proud and I think that we should all be proud together, which is that by this regulation we have provided for that clause that EPS cannot suspend the supply of electricity to those families and households that have a sick person whose treatment depends on the supply of electricity. I think that this whole set of measures that we introduced in 2015, so this is a new measure that this government, or the previous government, introduced in 2015 and that never existed before in Serbia, is extremely important, extremely high quality. I want to inform you that we will continue to work on its promotion to bring this measure closer to the citizens of Serbia, because I have a feeling that still in some local self-government through the social work centre, where it is applied for, this information has not come to an end and that the procedure in some segment is complicated, so this year we will go with the amendments to the regulation, which will facilitate the application of that regulation in accordance with both the e-government and all those segments that we make to improve and the work of the republican authorities, as well as the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31145	I thank Minister Antic. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31146	Thank you, Chairman. To answer your question specifically. Yes, it is one of the measures that we have taken together with our national sports alliances, to influence the decisions of international sports organisations and to protect the national interest that is most important at the moment, unlike earlier periods, where individuals have not protected national interest and where individuals have managed to put their personal interest first and to profit in this way. What I can say responsibly now is that in one responsible way, we all have the effect of protecting our national interest together and preventing this particular case from happening, which you have specifically asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31147	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. You've got three more minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31148	I'm satisfied with the answer, given that the state has never given a 50% subsidy to buying a new tractor, but my proposal was precisely that we have a domestic tractor and that that 50% goes into domestic production. The factory would be very profitable and competitive on the European market, not only in Serbian. I want to commend and say, when it comes to the Ministry of Health, that the prevention carried out every week with a free citizen review has helped a lot. A large number of citizens have learned that they have blood sugar, pressure, etc. Something that doesn't hurt and dies. I would just suggest that those difficult patients be provided with free scans on scanners and magnetic resonances and for younger people, because parents don't have the money to pay. I would just like to ask Minister Trivan to explain, as the media quoted him as saying -- German car trash, diesel engines, cannot be imported into Serbia. I don't believe that's what he said, considering ordinary people buy those used German cars. I'd like to ask the Minister of Education if I can increase the number of high school educators if I increase the number of students. Because we have, for example, five-six cities in Serbia where there are more students from year to year, and there are the same number of teachers left. Can we change and switch directions in high school, something that lasts 30 years, and when that direction ends in high school, there's nowhere to be hired. You should give consent to something like that. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure on her engagement and not only on her engagement but also on the quality and quantity of the highways. Our paths aren't the same as they were seven or eight years ago. (Marco Atlagic: Like Mrka. It was dark that made the bridges down, shut up, and don't compare the Dark. Each of us travels somewhere and when you come back and land at the Belgrade airport, like you run a rail car, that's how it used to be, and now it's much better. I also want to commend Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, of course, to the president of Serbia above all to congratulate him on fighting the white plague. This result will certainly make it happen to us, as it has happened to us so far, that every year in Serbia, 30,000 people die more than they are born. We can realize that the ministers are working well, that the president of Serbia is doing well and that we can take advantage of the popularity. Serbia today has very good co-operation with Turkey, which was not the case four years ago with China, which was not the case five years ago, with Germany, with Austria, with Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, but we do not use it very well. If a father and son are fighting in the family, or family members, like what the opposition is doing, then no one will work with you. (President: I thank you. ) Let's criticise ourselves in the election campaign, and when the elections are over, give the opposition something to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31149	Thank you. You'll have another two minutes. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31150	Dear Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Markovic, I would like to thank you for this topic that you have launched, regarding IMT and IMR. Because if there was one industry that Serbia was famous for, it's an industry that applied to tractors and other agricultural machinery, and I think we can do a lot of things on that platform. It is not a free World Bank, analysing the state and potential of the Serbian economy, has specifically singled out several sectors. Two sectors directly concern agriculture. One is related to the food industry, and the other to the machinery industry, which is related to agriculture. So, specifically, tractors and machinery. You're absolutely right when you say it would be good for your incentives, i.e. getting your money back to go for the machinery that was produced in Serbia. And you're absolutely right that out of these 2,100 tractors, only 500 has something to do with being produced in Serbia. First of all, I think of those that are produced in Bolvac and in Novi Sad, first of all, I mean Belaruss that come together and Sonalik's tractors that come together. It would be much better if it were all from Serbia. One thing that will happen in the next few weeks will be a new rule, which will regulate the return of farmers related to the purchase of machinery, where the mechanism originating in Serbia will be a higher rate of return than another mechanism. So we're not banning anyone from buying anything, but that percentage of support is going to be, if this is 50, it's going to be either 55 or 60%. Why do I say that? It is necessary to develop the old centres that existed in Serbia's space, and Serbia has the knowledge and experience that it can do it again. All it takes is a request. First of all, I mean the supply of equipment, which was developed in the area of Backa Palanca, in the space of Vršca, in space and Bolec and some other centres, where there were special economic operators who were involved in the production of this type of machinery, and that's what we're going to do. As soon as you have a demand for any goods, you automatically have the greater and increased interest of investors. Last year, we had the first mechanisation fair that was produced in Serbia, for one simple reason, so as you have now done, to point out the importance and need to develop this type of industry. I think it is very important for Serbia and the Serbian government will not regret support. The regulation that regulates the promotion of investments this year in a special way treats agriculture-related investments, has one specific set of measures concerning agriculture, where a completely different way of processing investment in agriculture is processed. That I don't take the time, I want to say first of all for the sake of the public, and you have started this topic – communication and good relations with Turkey. You remember that on the basis of the good political relations developed by President Vukic and President Erdogan, we managed to get an extended range of products for duty-free exports to Turkey. Two goods that we can especially highlight and where we can especially seal to give are sunflower oil, where we got special quotas for duty-free exports and one thing that is far the most important, and that's the one about the development of livestock, and that's mostly duty-free beef exports. I can say that we started with this export. So far, we have two slaughterhouses that are certified, for one simple reason, people need to know that, the public needs to know, are special conditions that they have to meet, because there can be no mixing of different kinds of slaughters in the same space. Look, it's perfectly normal for someone who gives you the right to look for these special conditions. One is located, just before someone asked, I heard, one is in Divance near Valjev, the first slaughter was done, the first exports. Turkish colleagues are extremely satisfied with the quality of meat and I hope that 5,000-ton quota will be increased very quickly. I think it's very important for the demand. Here, the other day I had a chance, talking to farmers from the Sword, who say – the price of beef was from three to four months ago 1.95 euros per kilogram. Today it's 2.3 euros per kilogram. Only this existence of demand has led to this growth, and that will go on as long as we develop it. Now we have one, I hope we realize next week, today in the government were meetings of the team on the occasion, we have the interest of two investors to build slaughterhouses that will be intended for slaughtering cattle in Serbia, and that is exactly this thing. I have heard very often in Parliament and elsewhere the question – What do we have in general from these agreements? That's exactly what I'm talking The demand which later has a consequence of raising production capacities, and in the case of cattle and increased livestock development. That's what the Republic of Serbia's interest is. We have two letters of intent, two different slaughterhouses, one for central Serbia, one for the post of Vojvodina, which will be exclusively intended for slaughtering cattle that is for the placement of goods intended for Turkey. That's what's important to Serbia. As soon as you have markets, you can develop your own production. As soon as you have your own production, you can have higher prices. As soon as you have higher prices, farmers can make more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31151	I thank Minister Nedimovic. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31152	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, Mr. Markovic, in a few sentences. First, I say it's good that the public starts to realize that there is a Ministry of Environment and that it will deal with all the things that and how they have to do with the quality of the environment. The second thing we have to say is the fact that over the past year, 26,000 new and 131,000 used cars have been imported into Serbia. From the point of view of environmental protection, can you imagine how polluting all these cars are and ours is to think about it? I also want to tell you that Serbia has not yet reached the standard of countries that are at a similar level of development for ours, something higher, where they have more residents, more cars per population, the head of the population. So it is expected that the number of cars we will have in Serbia will grow. If the number of cars in Serbia is going to grow, it means that we will also have to take care of what we import. At this point, the import of cars, which other colleagues can talk about, is going through the usual procedure. There are no new things that have happened, but there is one that I have to draw attention to and that may have caused some confusion, which is that Germany has set 4,000 euros in subsidies to car owners who will have to go to the dump, so on recycling, to be very precise. So, these cars going to recycling in Germany, so they're going to waste, they're being declared waste in Germany, so the garbage and those cars won't be imported to Serbia, for reasons I probably shouldn't explain. So Serbia doesn't need trash. Serbia needs new cars and as recent as possible. It's a simple thing here. And when it comes to old cars going to recycling in Germany, it's not about trade, it's about special waste streams, which is actually a special segment of trade in Europe and the world, which we, of course, adhere to and so on. What Serbia needs to be interested in at this point is that we have an illogical situation in which new cars are imported, so the environmental tax is paid on imports of new cars, and the curiosity is that used cars are not subject to environmental tax. I think we're gonna have to change that thing to get things in order, anyway. Lastly, what matters to me is that the world is definitely going towards another kind of car, to another kind of energy spent by cars, and that means it's going towards hybrid, electric, hydrogen, etc. What's important to know is that last year, 50 hybrid cars were imported into Serbia and 15 electric cars. But for your information, a large company that has started to work significantly in Serbia last year, in the vicinity of Belgrade, will have to, because it has such a business policy, to buy for its own transport needs, etc., use, or start using several dozen hybrid or electric cars. What is lastly important to say is that in agreement with the Prime Minister, therefore, we have an idea to consider by the end of the year how we, as Government and Serbia, could help importers of electric and hybrid cars to actually start becoming a cleaner country. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31153	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31154	I want to inform you, about some data for the preventive checks that have taken place, which is that over 120, 130,000 people have been examined and so far, from the data processed, over 2,300 citizens who have been examined, it has been discovered in time that they have health problems that can be solved and that they will not enter the stage with complications and will be able, when these problems are solved, to continue their lives, to be with their families and to be socially active. If it hadn't been for these examinations, it would have been hard for them to, and they've admitted that it was hard to get those diagnosiss. It's not the only action we're carrying out. There are a number of other actions: “cancer is treatable” with media support, these are also various screening programs that are done and we try to reach people’s minds every day and to show them how important it is to be reviewed in time and to discover in time and that in more than 90% of cases when it is discovered, that it can be fully cured and that they continue their normal lives. The next thing you mentioned, that's that you mentioned seriously sick and old people. We've already determined in all hospitals 10% of the beds to serve as a means of paliative care, precisely for those patients who have been severely ill, who are insatiably burdened by both families and society. There are various homes that are extremely expensive. It's being checked whether these homes have licenses, whether they have adequate conditions, whether they can take care of these people. What we did literally 10 days ago, that's, we gave a warrant to all the hospitals in the interior that don't have enough of the capacity to direct them to expand these capacities to receive such people, to help them, to occupy their pains, to do all those things that you said, that we think they would do. Because it's much easier to do when these patients are in a hospital and in hospital conditions to do all of this and see what it is that can help them to be as good a life as possible, because they are in these stages and are on a serious burden to everyone. It'll move on, but that, not just that. You know we bought new accelerators, that at the end of Oncology 2, that very soon, I'll give you the dates next week, when new accelerators will work in both Belgrade and Nis and Kragujevac and Kladov, and where we'll get new accelerators, hire new doctors, young experts who have finished here and who want to specialize and continue to work. But, and getting all these equipment and other equipment, not to mention now, there will be opportunities, and thanks to that, there has been a lot of corruption and everything that goes on here. I want to inform you that in all the polls that are being conducted, unfortunately, they do not see the light of day, because some do not respond, that health care is no longer at the very top of corruption and what the association was about and what it was known for. (Dear Markovic: And there is no longer any order as it once was. ) (Radoslav Milojic: Waiting for two years. ) People are waiting for the people who stole from the health care community and who appear to have taken from sick people. Thanks to them, they're waiting. They'll be arrested, arrested safely. Don't worry, don't rush. Take it easy, I don't know where you're going. Don't get nervous, it affects beauty. Don't. (President: There is no reason to communicate directly with MPs. Here you go. That affects beauty, so take it easy. So that's all the things that happen and what citizens see, and then that's how it is when they get the chance. I just want to tell the citizens that we're going to move on and we're going to do everything we can to make every penny in health go to the right place and make the citizens feel it, unlike what it used to be. That's what citizens see well and judge well at every opportunity they get to evaluate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31155	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31156	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Markovic, for the first part of the question is a positive answer, but it is not just about Jagodina. We're talking about a new cesspool rule, so-called. It's a way of calculating salaries and the number of workers needed in each school. This is also done in sync with the new Act on the Network of Schools. But there's something that's more specific for high school. There's going to be a decrease somewhere, somewhere a rise. It certainly depends on the number of students, which the new rulebook that ended and which these days will go to schools has and gives a certain explanation for this story. What is very important, the policy that began last year in high school has introduced the first dual profiles. So, we had 19 educational profiles, and of that, the most attractive were those who were for the military and for civilian aviation. They left first. There were seven candidates in one place to enroll students. This year we introduce 14 new dual profiles, and these are areas related to IT, construction, catering, mechatronics and other areas, dedicated, means, for working with well-known employers and learning with work. These profiles do not have restrictions when enrolment quotas, as we have not even put a limit on new departments for the development of IT programs in high schools. They're now called computer and IT talent. It's going to be over fifty, now I mean six, high school, some even two departments. So that's all the stuff that goes over the quota. I think that policy that we started last year, and this year we're going to develop it more significantly, has the opportunity to ask local self-government, ask the chamber that's in that area or any other, the labour market what it is that's been schooled so far and what it doesn't need anymore, which is a saturated market, and that's helping to create a registration policy. I think it's the only thing that's normal in our country, which we started last year, and this year, we're going to start that strategy right now, or policy of agreement on the number of departments, students, the kind of profile and everything else that's really important. I say, these categories through dual profiles and through the development of IT have no limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31157	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31158	Mrs. Mihajlovic did not answer me for the alternative routes that served after the bombing and during the bombing. These are not regional roads, but heavy trucks destroyed those roads, and that is the problem in more than 30 Serbian cities. Is there any possibility of getting rid of those roads?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31159	Unfortunately, there is no possibility of an answer now. In these two minutes, you can only plead your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31160	Give me back my time. I'm partially satisfied with Mr. Trivan's response. You'll have to reconsider that decision of yours. These cars of yours are driven by a gege, a peasant, an ordinary worker, and they cost between 3,000 and 5,000 euros, and they do not pollute the ecological environment, but the ecological environment pollutes the sewerage from Belgrade that goes to the Danube and Sava. We first solve this, and I ask the entire government to change it, and I don't believe that the decision is governmental, to allow imports of cars, these cheap diesel cars, because they're not competition with domestic production because the cheapest car, the "Punto" produced in Kragujevac, is 9,000 euros, and these cars are between 3,000 and 5,000 euros, and that ordinary gege, a worker who barely survives, takes a loan of two, three thousand euros and gets to the car, especially those who live in the country and who have to go somewhere in the car. I would like to conclude and congratulate the president of the state for all that he does well and because, when it comes to the event two, three days ago on KIM, his position is shared by 90% of Serbian citizens. Some may have said -- come on, let's go to war, we have the right to send 990 officers or soldiers to Kosovo, but what we're going to get. I want to thank Ivica Dacic, who is now in Africa, as a man who leads a good international policy and is the best tandem Dacic-Vucic, as well as congratulate ministers and government on good work. Let me tell you, it's not easy for you either, but it's a lot easier for you now than it is for four years now, because you're already on your way and no one can live to stop you on the road, and that road is very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31161	I made up for that time I took away from you for a while. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31162	Chairman, time only works for a few, not all. Dear Ministers, MPs, I ask my question to Minister Mihajlovic, and as regards the Fruskogorski Corridor, because on 17 November 2017 you said the works on the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor will begin this year and the current president, and former Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said that the jobs will begin in 2017, so we no longer know what date it is. I ask you a question – is the project documentation completed, is land expropriation completed and is the funds provided for the French Corridor and where are these funds from? Another question I ask Minister Djordjevic, which concerns a new company called DES, i.e. a company for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, primarily for hearing impaired persons. This company was founded in 1948 and I ask you – is it true that DES closes in May this year? The workers there, the employees, who are mostly families, are spouses who work there, have about 130 hearing impaired persons or are deaf, deaf, etc. Is this company closing in May and what these people are doing, because they don't know what's going to happen to them, and everything there is about 200 employees? That's a question for Minister Djordjevic. Another question I ask Prime Minister Brnabic, and it is about restitution. When and if new amendments to the Restitution Act have been made, will there be substitutions in it? Will it be possible to return the land to another Catastrian municipality, because we know that in some municipalities there are no more land? I think there is, because some municipalities, people have usurped land from these privatisations, so people are not allowed to get that land. There is a critical situation in the north of Vojvodina. There about 13,000 ha to be returned, only about 3,000 ha were returned. I think it's critical. I'm interested in where you'll be providing compensation funds, as it is necessary to provide about two billion euros, and it's only about 13.6 billion euros that are intended for compensation. I'm interested in what stage it is and when it will come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31163	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31164	Dear Members, thank you for asking. First of all, let me tell you what projects look like and what the value of projects on the territory of Vojvodina is. I think that's important. Of course, with very clear answers that are related to the French Corridor. The value of projects in infrastructure, road infrastructure, rail infrastructure is two billion euros in Vojvodina territory. You know that exactly the territory of Vojvodina is currently undergoing the most important project, i.e. the most important project is being done, and this is the fast track of Belgrade-Budapest. The two-part works have begun. The first share is financed from the Chinese loan, and for which we have signed a financing agreement and, of course, the second share that is financed from the Russian loan, which is extremely difficult tomorrow, among other things, we have a meeting with the Russian railways and we continue to work with them and tomorrow we sign a protocol related to further maintenance of the railway. The third share that is also important, information is important, and that is to continue the negotiations on the value, i.e. the commercial contract concerning the shares between Novi Sad and Subotica, or Novi Sad and the borders with Hungary. It will be the first fast track in this territory of Western Balkan countries or Southeast Europe. I think it's important because it connects us to the corridors and it's important for Serbia that has one position, which is that it is located in one great place. So, about the railways. The French corridor is among other projects that have also been discussed for decades and I have said several times, wherever I have appeared and whatever we have started since the reconstruction or projects, every time I have started my speech – there has been no investment here for 30 years or there has been no work here for 20, 30 years. So the story of the French Corridor has been going on for decades, but what the government, the Vucic government, has just launched, is the development of project-technical documentation for the Fruscogorian Corridor. The documentation is made out of funds, i.e. the funding of the Ministry of Transport, the Ways of Serbia and the Capital Investment Authority of the province, means Vojvodina. What you need to know is that the paperwork is complete. We've had a lot of trouble preparation. We're done here. The expropriation project is being completed. We signed a memorandum with the Chinese company "Sirbisi" last year and related to the construction of this corridor. It was formed last week, I think, at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, by a working group that begins negotiations, and with this company that includes representatives of the province of Novi Sad, the municipalities, "The Way of Serbia", the corridor, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the cabinet of the Prime Minister and we are moving forward in the talks, so to conclude a commercial contract and find a way of funding sources. Also, you should know that we are prepared as Government to go on to think about different forms of funding. This means that, in addition to always that first credit debt we often and mostly have in infrastructure, this time we can think about other forms of funding. Also, the French Corridor continues, from Ruma to Šapac, from Šapac to Loznica. There also ends the documentation this year, next year we hope to begin construction. Therefore, the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor itself is not because the Serbian government did not do anything, but because of the long run, project-technical documentation and an idea project. We expect it because this year I don't believe we'll be able to start work, as papers, but we should start next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31165	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31166	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, in answer to your question, I only want to make one little introduction. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry pay special attention to people with disabilities, as well as to companies that employ people with disabilities. In this year, we singled out 700 million in total, which shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a desire and wants to help these companies do their job anyway and do it in a stable manner. However, all we inherited was a bad and catastrophic situation in these companies for the reason that by 2011, an irresponsible policy was conducted that led to the poor management that had been set up, the boards that had worked until then, in one irresponsible way without control, brought these companies and these companies to the brink of existence. It is true that DES has difficulties, the current realization of UPPR, but we are willing and eager to help all companies and put them on the right path and we will not allow them to close. What is a message to all employees is that they are doing their job, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cares about them, that financial resources are provided, that the first public call is under way, that 125 million dinars are scheduled to be distributed to companies and that we will certainly help them on that path to reorganisation to get on their feet and that such things will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31167	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31168	The government has educated, formed an inter-resor working group to draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the return of seized property and compensation. So we're working on a draft of this law. He's the final stage. I expect he'll be at the government session soon, but you're absolutely right. So it's a very large amount of money that needs to come out of the budget and we, at this point, parallel to the work on changes and additions of this law, are watching how we can actually plan to secure from the budget the funds for all those damages.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31169	Thank you. Here you are, MP Olena Papuga. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31170	First restitution. Why, if he doesn't have the means and he can come back, don't come back in the form in which he can come back? So there's no talking about it. Minister Djordjevic, I didn't get an answer whether DES is closing or not. You were talking about ex-government. I mean, you've been in power for six years, maybe six years, you've had a lot of opportunities to make things right and actually make them something new. Minister Mihajlović, I ask her – you have answered me about the lines that are international, I have not asked you about the stripes at all. I asked you about the French corridor. So, you from 2016, 2017, 2018... You just don't know for now. You didn't tell me who the finance guy was? Who's going to finance it? You didn't even answer me when it was gonna start. I just don't think you've taught me any of my questions except what you've been teaching me about how it's all about those international contracts that concern the railroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31171	Thank you. The President of the Government, i.e. the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, has the word. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31172	I'll check it out. I'll give you more information. I promise I'll send you more information about the asset swap in the restitution. So I'll send it to you in the next few days. That's what I promise you. I also promise as Prime Minister that I will personally take a look at the Des Novi Sad case because I think it is inadmissible to close down and work personally with Minister Djordjevic. I'm sorry I don't have any more information about this right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31173	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Zorana Mihajlovic: First, if you take it as a teaching, I apologize. I just think it's very important that we all know, especially knowing that you're always interested in investments in the territory of Vojvodina. It has been a real pleasure for me to tell you what's going on in Vojvodina's territory when we're talking about infrastructure. Far from me running away from the answer. I'm known for it as very effective and very exact in my answers. When we talk about the French Corridor, I've told you everything, that for 30 years it's been said, that the government of Vuciceva has singled out money at the Ministry of Transport, as well as in this ministry every year to finance a project-technical documentation that wasn't there. So there was no single paper in the project technical documentation that wasn't made for a month, two or three, because it turns out there was a lot of problems with the parcels, because it turned out to be a lot of problems with the expropriation. I said that for all four sections, for the three sections, the project-technical documentation is complete, let's say the fourth one ends these days. I also told you that a working group has been formed to negotiate a commercial contract because we have completed and signed the Memorandum of Construction of the French Corridor. I also told you that next year we're expecting work. Funding can be two ways. It can be a credit line, although I don't think we have to do it like that, and it can be otherwise, whether it's a partnership, a concession, whatever. In any case, we hope to start work on that corridor next year because this corridor is very important for Serbia. You've got all the answers. Far from wanting to teach you. PRESIDENT (Jordje Milicevic): I thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31174	Thank you. First, to respond to whether we've been in power for six years and how long we've managed to get back, it's telling us how catastrophic the situation has been found, and I'm only going to make one pandemic with the military industry and with what was found in those factories. We'll get back to the DES. The catastrophic state that was found there, that what we found there was about the fact that the things we did were very difficult to bring back and that we could get that company back to stable feet very quickly. However, I am telling you, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done a number of things. I gave you a strict answer that there is no discussion at all about the fact that Des Novi Sad is going to be closed, or that these people are going to lose their jobs. On 21.3. the Ministry of Labour has given you an answer with a list of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, or the Ministry of Labour has done when it comes to measures. I'm telling you responsible that none of this is going to happen, that we want and exactly all the measures we've taken, including reorganisation, is something that we want to do to save DES. The government of the Republic of Serbia, I reiterate, is paying particular attention to people with disabilities. There's been a change of policy towards them. When it comes to companies hiring the Ministry of Labour for the past nine months, there have been a number of meetings with them. We want to establish a completely different way of communicating with them, that when we deploy funds, they all come to a meeting, see what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set apart for them, that we know how and how we allocate these funds, that they all become acquainted, because we think they will be the best controllers of how and how these funds are spent. There is a formula by which we look not only at how many employees there are, how much traffic there is, and everything else we have now introduced a new thing, and that is to see exactly how many people with disabilities are employed, which are categories, to provide evidence of how those assets that were previously given to companies that employ people with disabilities were also given to companies that only employ without any evidence of which categories. You know, it doesn't matter when you hire a person with a disability of the first or tenth category, when you hire them in a certain number. We've scored exactly how many points a category brings, and then it's all taken in one big formula where the total funds given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are inserted and deployed evenly. Of course, all of them are directed at how and how we assign it to them and it is possible to make observations about all of it. So I'm just asking you, as was the case with Fiat, that we don't have misinformation, yet it's a particularly sensitive group of people, it's about their families, which depend, their lives depend on it and an atmosphere in which they have some uncertainty, which doesn't exist, where they now have this communication with us at the Ministry for the first time. We have regular meetings that will be next week, the second in a row when it's divided by these funds, talking about how we have absolutely no intention of shutting them down, of firing people, but we just want these people to continue their work and work and that this firm is getting on their feet. But not just her, there are some other firms that hire people with disabilities, too, to pay attention to them, because we think they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31175	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think one thing may have missed in these exhibitions, and it was about the issues of colleagues of Papuga, it's about agricultural land and it's about replacement, possibly substitution, the whole process of restitution of agricultural land at all. The situation with agricultural land, I can say, a few years ago and today, that's an important difference, for one simple reason, because we had a lot of usurpations, we had a lot of local self-governments that didn't bring annual renting programmes, I'm talking about the period 2008, 2009 or already there that year. To tell you the truth, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I think some things are given even too much authority, given the capacities that exist locally. So in some places we have local village princes who have tried to do all sorts of things in the past and many have been prosecuted and convicted of it. Agricultural land in the context of the restitution, which you have said, you are right, there is agricultural land enough, 600,000 hectares almost has state agricultural land and it is one of the most important resources that this country has. At this point somewhere between 60 and 80 thousand acres is controversial. You're talking about substitution, a very difficult topic, that you're bringing back something that's not taken away, but you're making it up to him somewhere else. A very difficult subject in terms of, as I would say, justice, to do one act of injustice, to answer another act of injustice. But what I can say is that we started procedures through the Department of Agricultural Land and the Attorney General for all those who are 10 years ago, 15 back through privatisation processes tried to enroll on themselves state agricultural land. I now appeal to you and to all those who know of such situations to report to the Ministry of Agriculture, to the Public Administration of Agricultural Land, that these specific cases, were one day in public information that some had translated state into private property or some other form of property and privatised it. Please, all we know is we've been processing. What is very important and very insistent in the Serbian government is on digitalisation in agriculture. It's not just a process of production, it's a process of discovering usurpation on agricultural land. Since 2017, we have one software where we fully recognize all the state agricultural land that has been crossed with the cathedral and we know at all times what is happening on it. A few years ago, we had 300 different alignments where people paid triple the value of the rent as punishment because they didn't do it right. We managed to bring it down to 30 last year. Let's take it one step further. We can track the agricultural land now, we couldn't do it a few years ago, on a five-day level, to know what was going on, whether there was an usurpation, which is a state agricultural land, and now we're going into the cleaning process, where we're going into all those local self-governments that tried, maybe they didn't know, or for some fifth reason, they didn't get into the whole agricultural land lease program. We're now going towards these local self-governments through the control process, through the agricultural inspection, to try to get everyone into the state fund. We made about 40m euros for the state last year on this route, much more than in previous years. This is a process that is long. You're right, 13.6 billion, possibly those figures that are mentioned by two billion, there's plenty of room for work and we're working on it, but it's very important, we can't correct one injustice by another. I thank you for this subject that is difficult. How complicated she is, I'll just say one more thing and I'll conclude, you had a lot of things through the restitution process, where it got into the irrigation systems, so the maltenes ripped off the irrigation systems a few years ago to get the restitution process done, to make it a return. You make one, you know how, we're all talking about irrigation, new irrigation systems, and the existing disintegrating, with the not-will of the Agency for Restitution, but through the process of articulation, where the individuals from the hair mass were pulling out and saying, that's exactly what we want, and that's what we're talking about. You know what an injustice that is? To create one irrigation system requires millions of euros, to bring down one act, it is just as unfair as all the injustices that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31177	My colleagues of the Papuga, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31178	In short, I will also send Prime Minister Brnabic and you Minister Nedimovic some documents concerning the municipality of Kula in which I live, land usurpation, creation in two weeks without any consent and permission from the bay systems. I'll send you everything about what it looks like in the Municipality of Kula from the president of the municipality. Minister Djordjevic, we can tell those people who work in the DES that you will take care of them and that simply that firm will not be privatised and that it will continue to work or how? It won't be shut down and it'll still work? Okay. Thank you. The French corridors, as I understand it, will not be done this year, but only next? Won't it start this year?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-29-0.u31179	Minister Djordjevic, there is no possibility of an answer after two minutes of the Papuga colleague's work. It's 19 hours and 14 minutes. We are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank everyone for their participation, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Deputy Prime Ministers and ministers. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that the second session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018 will continue on Monday 2 April 2018 at 10.00 hours by searching the details of the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the national framework of the qualification of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you again for your work.
