ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44920	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr. Trivan, honored guests from the Ministry, honored gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin the exhibition with the words of the Indian chief of Seattle – the country does not belong to man, the man belongs to the country; which is the best definition so far of ecology. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment should address the differences that exist in the Law on the Protection of the Environment and International Obligations arising from the EU accession process in order to meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. The accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU is defined in Chapter 27 of environmental protection and implies compliance with standards in the field of environmental protection, which requires building and adequate infrastructure. For infrastructure projects in priority areas of waste and waste water management, significant funding is needed, which is not only possible from the funds of the Republic and local budgets, but is of paramount importance to establish a system of pre-accession funds. Chapter 27 on the protection of the environment and climate change will be the most complex and expensive for Serbia, as one third of European legislation is contained in this and will be the most technically demanding chapter. 15 billion euros should be invested over the next 25 to 30 years, but regardless of what is expensive, investment in environmental protection should not be seen as a cost, these are investments in health. The entire set of environmental protection includes water quality, air quality, quality of nature, industrial pollution, chemical management, risk management and climate change. The environment in which man lives is divided into physical chemistry, which makes up the whole surrounding and inanimate world, and that is the area of hygiene activity, the subject being studied in medical schools, the biological environment and the social environment. The first middle consists of soil, air, climate, drinking water, surface and waste water, as well as settlements, all of these facilities intended for man's needs. The man is firmly bound and dependent on this environment and cannot survive without it. In time, experience, knowledge, and technology, man has increasingly influenced the physical and chemical environment. Developing technology, over time it has also polluted that same environment with various byproducts and wastes of its work, more and more, so that modern man has actually compromised the balance of relations in the middle to the extent that today there is a question of its survival in that environment. That actually means that his changing that environment, for him in a favoring sense, can't touch a two-member sword, i.e. to turn into a threat to the ecological balance, which directly endangers itself. Today, the exploitation of soil, air and water pollution by humans has reached a dangerous limit and threatens to strike a disrupted balance that may be one of the more and may not be restored. This is an important reason why, in world terms today, so much happiness is given to the urgent need to stop further pollution and take measures for effective recovery. So to conclude, the main objectives of EU environmental policy are to preserve natural values, promote a resource-efficient economy and ensure public health. Practically, there is no disease that has only one cause of precision. In the end, I will speak specifically about the members of the law in the amendments I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44921	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with Associates, there is no one in the hall of this high building who doesn't consider the laws regarding the preservation of our environment and the laws that are related to the ecological environment to be of no importance. Of course, they are important and of course everyone who thinks about their environments is looking well at such things. However, since we belong to different political options, it is logical that we also have different views that may lead to the same goal. So, not maybe, but for sure. I've heard here many times that when someone's a minister, it doesn't matter which education is narrow to be the minister of resistor to whom they belong. At your place, I saw that you had graduated from the Forest College and that it was something that God thanked you for the field we're dealing with, but then when I heard that it didn't matter that the ministers were politicians and now when we take them, we open up, for example, Wikipedia, your name, the first thing that comes out, is a politician. So you're a politician. You may not like it or like it, you love your job, I convinced myself yesterday, but as politicians you have one special kind of responsibility that you have to pay attention to every word you say, especially the word you say as Minister of a Government. I wasn't in the day you explained the law because I was bound by other congregation obligations and then I read the stenogram. What you said in the stenogram, Mr. Minister, is terrible for me, and you said, I quote you – Politicians will agree whether there are open questions and whether the border can be like this or something, but what's important from our environmental aspect, and we're already beginning to agree, for us, are not in the greening of an important border. You know, for me who belong to the Serbian Dvori movement are very important borders and I am much more important than 255 species of birds from 190 countries, 29 certified species of bat and four that we may have or may not have, while not denying that this is also extremely important, and mice, and owls, birds rare, Carpathy, etc., but such a statement as much as you love your job, you have to make sure you don't just say it. Yesterday you said you were an open ministry and you'd be a stumbling block for a lot of insubordinations that could occur. I agree you're an open ministry. I am now telling you a problem that I was about to tell you on May 18th as a parliamentary question. Of course, I got the answer, and as a serious man, I don't want to express my doubts, the answers are written by your associates, and that's normal, and yesterday you said that we as MPs need to give you additional information to respond to some things in time. So, then, in my question to you, is it true that at the Eurotai factory in the King, I am a national envoy from the King, that stonery and bleaching of Texas will be done? Do you know where the factory is located and do you know that wastewater from that factory will have to go to the drain of the Morava River? Do you know which ecological pollutions can occur from all this? I got the answer that was to me, not to say, I'm looking for a nice word, he says – given all of the above, you've listed the members of the law to me, at this point there's no data on the specific facility that's going to be in the factory. It bothered me that the minister of one ministry didn't know what the factory in the King would do, which is pompously announced, and then I said it would do the bleaching of the Texa, the rocking of the Texa. Since you didn't have any information and you didn't have any until then, I'll let you know that on the night between Saturday and Sunday, the bottom panel of the pool is concrete. In the meantime, the sides were also placed and that the problem that can occur there is particularly great. Why is he big? A little while ago, before me, an esteemed colleague was talking about Chapter 27. I am not fascinated by these chapters at all, for the simple reason that I am against the European Union and I look forward to that false creation falling apart, and if we are lucky, the pre-accession funds from these hyperfunds will be withdrawn and it will fall apart, and we can be good at it. And that's where the problem comes in. The investor is Turkey. Turkey is not a member of the European Union. I am responsibly telling you that the measures taken in terms of environmental standards, the state of Turkey does not respect the rules of the European Union. What are we gonna do, Minister? That factory is made in the King. I told you - the night between Saturday and Sunday, check, the bottom plate is done. We're going to get into a situation where the factory is going to be built, that we're going to get some kind of dirty technology, that the water that's going to come out into West Morava, that's what I told you on May 18th, and then, when all that happens, we're going to realize that Turkey is not the European Union, that we can't fit into some standard, and then what? I'm a health worker. We have a foreign exchange – better prevented than treated. Then, as an open ministry, I was distracting you, because the information that I have, I don't think I'm more than you, maybe coming from some other circles, I knew what they're going to do, and that's what they're going to do, and we're going to be in a relatively ecological problem. And if I tell you that part, that water is going to pour out, is the part that's very often blue, you've heard about the floods in the King, and you know that problem we have, we're going to raise that problem to an even higher level. So, as a citizen of the city of the Kings, I ask you, in time, until it is too late, to take measures that may be in your responsibilities, which may not be, but I tell you, you are a minister, you are both a stick and a rope, and in that context, that we do some things. Just one more thing, when we look at these laws, and I said just before why it mattered to me, says – the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the field of environmental protection, it is your statement, perhaps unconsciously spoken, in this way presented. You know, these agreements with Croatia should be made, but many, many, many, many other agreements. That's why I care about the border. When she can stand in Vukovar a Cyrillic board, we will be able to make an agreement with Croatia. We love others very much, just to let them love us a little bit. Anyway, since I love the King, and you're open, please, Mr. Minister, look at this problem I've told you. I'm going to ask as many questions as I can and any new information that you may not have, you're going to get either one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44923	Thank you. (Branimir Rancic: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44924	Thank you. Let me say what I need to say in a few sentences. First of all, let me apologize for being late for these tens of minutes, for my duties in the City Assembly with the representatives of the Japanese Embassy, the IBRD and our mayor. The colleagues who spoke, let me first express the satisfaction that it seems to me that in what you said, in your tone, regardless of the differences that I will look back on later, you actually want to take care of the environment, which I think you do yourself and think about it. Thank you for the philosophical way you have, I think, deeply understood and pointed out that you understand the importance of taking care of the environment. Any support from this guy is very important to us. I'm not exaggerating. I need to tell you every time and every time I speak in this house, I will look back at that angle of your observation of things, and that could mean that everything we do and suggest has a better chance of being understood and supported by our MPs in this house. Of course every suggestion is welcome. I've said before that we can't assume that we're a team of people who can absolutely see every fact in the best possible way. That's why you're all here together and it has nothing to do with anything except our desire to make everything we do better, including these amendments to the law and everything else. But today, however, it is all a cause for the story of the environment, which in my deep opinion does not have enough space still in our consciousness and that there is a story of consciousness. This debate at the same time in the Assembly is talking about it, and I kind of said yesterday, that when we talk about consciousness, it's obvious that we have to start working on raising awareness in this Parliament as well. Because when it is said here that there are more important topics than environmental protection, it says exactly that consciousness is not always in the right place where it should be. This is where we are. But no matter what, there are many differences between us that are ideological, political and whatever you want, and that's quite legitimate. To me, what I said at the beginning is very important that even you right-handed people understand that this is important and you agree that it's important. Sometimes we can differ in the order of moves. But what difference does it make? We who are now at the head of this ministry and in the government have this angle of observation and order of action may not always be necessarily important, but it is important to work on it and we are really trying to make it so. We're not going to be ideal. I have no illusions about all this. But we haven't been ideal since 1991, when we formed the first Ministry of Environment, so we've made significant steps in all of this, and anyone who's led this ministry has taken at least one good step in this direction. That's encouraging to me. That's why I have a full sense of relaxation when we talk about these topics, because whether or not I'm a politician, for some expert, I am who I am and I can't be different, but it's important that I try to do my job well with a team of people. I don't care, I don't have any problem with what you said. It doesn't matter what they call you, it's important you do your job as best you can. I'm trying to do it. Thanks to the support of both the majority and our president and Ivica Dacic and Ana, however you wish, it was important to form a separate ministry. Because an entity that deals with it is important. When you have a man who's only in charge of it, it's very important, because it puts on your back the responsibility that only you, or I, in this case, carry, no matter what. And it's this important moment of moral access to serious business, if we're serious people. What I'm trying to tell you here is that what you're saying essentially shows that difference between us is fundamentally political. A different interpretation of something I said is actually a difference in philosophy. So, environmentalism is actually a philosophy that tries to bring people together, to combine mentalities, to combine environmental concerns on both sides of these or those borders, and there's no need to get out of the context of someone who's an environmentalist who doesn't have a political context at all, but only have an ecological context. But you mentioned it. I think it's somewhere on the other side. It's okay, I understand that kind of interpretation, but we're not gonna make anything out of it, except that we don't have to interpret it differently. When it comes to agreements, well, you know, to me, these agreements are, in fact, important to me, because of what I said earlier. And now that's the difference that's necessary to show up. So, for someone it is, it's not for someone, but while I'm at the head of the ministry, it's gonna be because I think it's necessary. Do you know why? There's this fundamental political difference between you and us. I would not like to radicalise relations with each other with countries in the environment, but rather use ecology as a tool to relax all these relationships that have long-term mortgages. If you consider that this is some kind of area that essentially connects us all, because in every country, just like we're saying here today, people think the same way we do. And then it seems to me that, in fact, it's more of a reason for us and these people to make that bond of co-operation on the environment and work together where possible. And there is no moment in our work that is not suitable for cooperation. I think so, and that's how I'm gonna behave. In particular, as far as the King's concerned, I remember this question of yours that you asked about Texas and bleaching, so I remembered it and we dealt with it. We can go to the limit of respect for the law. One thing you're definitely right about, which is that we have to take care of what's going on. We are required under the law and will have to make an impact assessment before the factory begins, and in that impact assessment, precise measures will be laid down as to what is to be allowed and what is not to be. Every newly built facility and capacity will have to be subject to, no matter where the factory comes from, so you mentioned that it is from Turkey, it is completely irrelevant that it is not an EU country, it will have to respect our regulations and we will take care of it. Your question only serves as a reason for us to turn our attention to ourselves, in fact you to us, in this way of attention and I am now telling you and I assure you that we will pay particular attention to their technology and special attention to the environmental impact assessment, and so that we together make them respect the rules that need to be respected. By the way, a large number of our factories, whose owners we are, don't respect the basic regulations, and that's our joint job. It's not easy, you know it yourself, and we all know together that, first of all, without enough inspection capacity, we can control them properly, our monitoring is bad on the ground. I'd like every factory, like this, to have its own measuring place where in the unit of time we're going to have exactly what they're emitting into the environment, and that's going to be the right measure of things. We need a lot of time to do that. We'll get to that, I assure you, but both our people and our factories can't learn to respect all that properly and obviously we'll have to come closer to more serious, dramatic measures of coercion in order to respect our legal regulations. In fact, it's a matter of our health. If I don't want to say it, this is a very specific thing for you who live in the King, I totally understand, and we're really going to deal with it. It's not the only case, but I also have to say that the factories that are being made in Serbia in the meantime, and especially when they come from abroad, try very hard to comply with environmental standards, even better often than some of our own could have expected. That's the part of the optimism that I have that's relatively easier, but don't lie to the devil, we have to deal with that control that you're quite right, in my opinion, talking about. We will deal with this, and as with all MPs, I ask that any information of this kind you have, and there are problems in Serbia, please let us know. We're ready to, like when it's dangerous waste, check every location. Somewhere it'll prove that the citizens are right, somewhere it'll show that maybe that's not the case. That way we all raise our capacity to the state together and tell everyone they can't break the laws without reacting. Why does it matter? If we succeed in making this symbiosis between citizens, therefore, MPs, in this way indirectly, and the states that we are in this case, there is hope that we can control everything. If we don't, there's no inspection in the world that can control every factory, every polluter, etc., etc. All in all, I understand what you said. I disagree, of course, with that first part and I'm asking you to understand that it's just an interpretation from what I said. No, the point is that we want to cooperate with nothing more than that, and other abuses and what anyone will interpret, of course I can't get into it, nor will I, nor will I defend myself from it. I mean exactly what I've told you, and it's certainly the most important thing that we of our citizens in the King after years and years of drinking water problems, Ibar, etc., we can get into a much better environment. It's also a dump, and so on, I don't want to spread the subject right now, but it's because of you and the citizens of the Kings that they know that both MPs and the government are trying to improve all of them's living conditions, but it remains that we're really ready for every cooperation, that we're really very open and that we have no prejudice at all when it comes to ecology. It's a question of our lives. Thank you again and thank you for everything you've said nicely about the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44925	The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44926	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to pay more attention to the local self-government I come from today, which is the Sokobanja municipality. Sokobanja municipality is making great efforts to justify an epithet of the environmental municipality in Serbia, which was allocated back in 1992. However, the situation on the ground is quite different. The problem of the Sokobanja municipality, in fact two very large problems, has been accumulated for decades. They're not yesterday and it will take a lot of strength, will and resources to solve these problems. Namely, the wastewater treatment plant, which was built in the 1970s, with its capacity and water processing technology, does not meet today's demands of this municipality. Since we know that Sokobanja is a tourist resort, which is in construction and expansion, of course future investors will also have in mind how we take care of environmental protection. Another problem is the collection of waste and disposal of waste, i.e. our local dump, and I have to say for years Sokobanja municipality has been the signator of the Agreement on the Construction of Regional Deposits for the Niski District. But it's just a dead letter on paper, none of it ever came true. Ten days ago, the managing structure of the Sokobanja municipality was in your Ministry of Environmental Protection, and you promised us in some way that you would meet and see this problem, given that this dump is near the Moravica River, which actually accumulates the Bovan Lake used for drinking water. This is a really big problem, not just for our municipality, or for municipalities bordering the territory of the Sokobanja municipality. Hopefully we'll start solving this big problem as soon as possible. It's not your fault. It's not our fault. It's our fault. Certainly, in the Ministry, people do not know the situation on the ground and that in fact local leaders are the ones who need help unless they are able to solve the problem financially or if they need some professional qualified help to solve the problem. There is also another problem in the Sokoban environment, which is the protected area, the monument of the nature of Ripaljak, which is five kilometers from Sokobanja itself. It is important to stress that this is the first protected area, placed under the protection of the state on 11 April 1949, so that the date was established as the Day of Nature Protection of Serbia. The Ripaljak waterfall, located in this location, often runs out of water during the summer period due to the drying of the Gradasnica River. People who deal with this problem in our local self-government have spoken with some representatives from your ministry and have pointed to the problem that this could compromise the sizeable deposits that are very old and which are a feature of this waterfall and this waterfall is a tourist attraction for tourists who come to Sokobanje. However, in these two years, since the SNS is head of Sokobanje, we have introduced a primary collection system of packaging waste, where all the meat communities are involved and we have managed for these two years to equip the public utility with three new trucks that are used to export garbage. This is just the beginning of our environment in our municipality and on the budget of local self-government there are always funds that are defined for legal and technical documentation that is necessary to solve all these problems. I hope we can solve this problem very quickly. On my personal behalf and on behalf of the citizens, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44927	Thank you. The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44928	Thank you very much. Let me tell you that I won't report for every discussion, but this is important... Sococabanja is one of the pearls in our country and, in short, because of you and for the public, of course, because of the citizens of Sokobanja, I want to say that, firstly, Lake Bovana is not only for drinking water supply, but in itself, it is valuable for Serbia. We are aware of what kind of resource it is, above all drinking water for, not just you, but the whole environment, as you yourself said. Thank you for your understanding of our subjects. I want to say that this is one of our priorities and that we have agreed with you that this is a priority and that we help you make these project-technical documentation, that an expert will go very quickly these days to look at the state of your documentation and help to make the documentation right and wait for the consent of the Ministry of European Integration, related to projects and funds, etc. So project documentation is what's the most important step in the whole story. That's what I'm saying for other colleagues from other local self-government. No project documentation, no investment. So this is the way, as you're going, we're going to help with how we already agreed with us at the Ministry with our colleague Perovic. As far as the dump is concerned, you belong, as we know, to the Nickal region and are waiting for the choice of partners, etc., and that the Government Strategy provides for you to drive it there to Pirot for the time being. It takes a little more patience to get to this solution in Nis, where you'll all have a station transfer and a recycling yard together, etc. The years of waiting will pay off. We will solve this problem together with you and your entire end will be perfectly settled when it comes to all of this that we are talking about today. Thank you again for your understanding, your patience, and we will do our best, as always.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44929	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44930	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will brief on two laws on the protection of the environment and amending the financial plan of the Republic Health Institute. When it comes to changing the financial plan yesterday, one prominent opposition MP said the "State lottery of Serbia" financed rare diseases during the party of the former regime. It's not familiar to me. I tried to get into the analysis and I couldn't find it to happen, but I found something else, which is that the "State lottery of Serbia" was a loss during the party of the former regime, which has never happened before. Dijana Angelic of the "State Lottery of Serbia", as if Boris Tadic, paid the company Sistems as much as 500,000 euros on the basis of a trade agreement on the maintenance of lottery terminals, although, behold, the "State Lottery of Serbia" had its own maintenance and service service. That's how, gentlemen of the former regime, you took money from state institutions. Furthermore, Sergey Trifunovic, called pee or pee, is known for saying he would piss on the grave of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, has invested millions of text messages and contributions of citizens to the sick in Slovenia's private and investment fund "Ilirika" of 15.5 million dinars, orated at 14.5 months. The transaction "Ilirica" brought back 10 million dinars, and 5.5 million dinars evaporated, respected citizens, ate cats, leaked somewhere. It's a good thing there's been a criminal trial. Just to point out that this is the man who went to Croatia and said in Zagreb that Serbs occupied 1/3 of Croatian territories in the 1990s. And the sparrows on the branch know that you can't occupy your village and your city, only defend yourself at the time. On the grounds of environmental protection, Mr. Minister, I have already suggested that perhaps the law, perhaps, this is my thinking, should bear the name of the law on protecting and improving the environment. He's very important, he's actually the basis of our survival. It is therefore necessary to pay attention to the environment since preschool education. I intend to say a few sentences of what educational institutions do and what they should do when improving and protecting the environment. However, school as a educational institution is one of the most important factors. Forming ecological consciousness and ecological education. That's what I'm throwing an accent at environmental education and education, because that's the basis for improving, truly improving protection and improving the environment. I must say that this very important problem of the former regime did not pay attention to the party, but was laundered by its staff in the form of Minister Oliver Dulic, or alienated money from the Environment Fund. Dr Oliver Dulic, former former minister of the former regime and president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, paid, quote, a billboard with a "Let's Clean Serbia" password of more than half a million euros, completed a quote, a report by the state auditor, and published by "Politika" 22. 9th of January 2012. The former construction and spatial planning minister, otherwise orthopedic, paid more than half a million euros for advertising, and published "Politika" 22. 9th of January 2012. Not only that, the former building and spatial planning minister, and a member of the former regime's party, otherwise orthopede, has, I quote, paid for the development of the "Let's Clean Serbia" site 25,000 euros, completed the quote, the state auditor's report, and published "Politika" 22. 9th of January 2012. However, it was subsequently found that Dr Dulic and Dulic's ministry paid for the support of even the lioness of Palic. That's why the people know Dr Oliver Dulic, called the lion grower on Palic in an attempt. And not only that, his colleague and former Finance Minister and Governor of the NBS, the former regime, Mladjan Dinkic accused him in this high House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 21st and 22nd. In September 2012, I quote, he said in this high house, that Oliver Dulic of the Environment Fund had not purposely spent funds for the Democratic Party's pre-election campaign and for the subsidisation of companies, miracles, imports of batteries and waste tyres to recycle them, finished the quote. Gentlemen of the former regime, that's how you alienated the funds and filled your pockets, and you brought the people and the state to the brink of bankruptcy. Gentlemen and honourable Members of Parliament, each school should form a programme of protection and promotion of the environment that must be an integral part of the school's work programme. It's what most schools do, not all of it, but most of it. Currently, environmental content is represented from the first to fourth grade in two classrooms, the world around us in the first and second classes and the Nature and Society in the third and fourth classes, and from the fifth to eighth grade primary schools in teaching classes: physics, chemistry, biology and geography. I note not only in them, that in every teaching class in primary and secondary schools there are contents that teachers can use in individual teaching units, i.e. to link to protecting or improving the environment. In high school education, care is also educated by environmental technicians in more than 20 schools in the Republic of Serbia. Ecology is taught at the level of high school education, and environmental content appears in the context of general education courses, from chemistry, physics to biology and geography, as well as in a large number of areas of work and education of secondary schools. In the domain of basic, specialist, mastery and doctoral studies in universities, or universities, subjects from the field of protection and promotion of the environment are represented almost all of the universities in a smaller or larger scale, and some of the universities have departments, i.e. directions to obtain higher education from environmental security and environmental protection, and there is a Faculty of Environmental Protection. A significant role, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, in the formation of ecological education and education are teachers, teachers of secondary, elementary schools and universities, and also for the protection of individuals from the great garbage that spread some opposition leaders of Serbia's failed alliances, headed by Janko Veseninović, a resident named because he alienated the apartment in Obrovac, Milica Badje, on the street of Brace Kurjaković No. 7, otherwise refugees from the former Republika Srpska Krajina, so as not to show up in the image of academics, Professor Dusan Teodorović, a former fugitive, has changed three parties in five months, who have changed his profession these days, behold wonders, and instead of professors and academics in analysts, an analyst who only knows that he spit and answers to certain politicians and politicians. I recommend a respected academic and professor, or you, an analyst charlatan, that all the vomit he said about SNS, the MPs of the SNS, the president of the state and the president of the SNS, Mr Alexander Vukic, the Serbs at KIM, the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, frame and put in his living room to remind himself of the reach of his civilization, scientific and democratic thoughts and count them in his scientific papers, if not as an academic, then as a politician, an analyst charlatan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44931	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44932	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues, I was expecting Mr. Lonchar here, Minister of Lonchar, and I wanted to begin by commending his proposal to set up the fund. I guess that's what other colleagues said, that's something to point out. It was then inserted into this agenda, but the state fund for treating children is something that is positive, independent of motivation. We can get into why right now, whether this affair or these stories that have started lately in public may have accelerated and motivated it to start with this state fund. That fund is needed, no, but what my colleague would say across the street - bravo. I'm saying it's okay, and I totally don't care if it's a point for power or not, where I'm lucky there's more points like that. The foundation of this fund and the legal institutionalization of this fund is a positive thing and it's a good thing that the phones are read here and what my colleague Diana says and some others are affirmative about it. No one's normal against it can be. We can politically discuss why right now, but better ever than never, I've said that about some other things. What's less good to me, a little stupid to say that to an empty bench, I'm not saying that Mr. Minister was directly responsible, but his statements went that way, which, in parallel, triggered a campaign against private funds and foundations. There are also some individuals mentioned here who have self-initiated these humanitarian actions via SMS and other ways of collecting help to treat sick children. I'm trying to be objective, and I really think that these actions have been very successful, and there's been a lot of funds raised. It is necessary to separate from this study of abuse. If there were abuses, of course there are organs to deal with. I think it's bad that the implementation and inauguration of this state fund for the treatment of children abroad has gone parallel to disabling and one hickey to these other private funds, and actually it would be good to work together. Someone has more confidence in the state, someone has more in a person, someone loves this Mr. Trifunovic and trusts him, Mr. Sapic and his foundation. I am alone more than once, although I do not share his political beliefs, I am more than once when it comes to this Capić foundation paying through SMS and many of my colleagues and friends. So why make war out of it now? It's great that there's a state now. It should've been done before. There is the possibility that both the state invests and privates invest through this foundation, but why immediately disabling these private ones, especially in an ugly way, where, I'm building up and stressing, it takes every abuse to be questioned, if there really were. Let this be the subject of tabloid murmuring, which will result in us not lying, a reduction of trust generally in this kind of aid, and I stress, for years back, many funds have been collected in this way and many children have gone abroad to treatment. It's our trouble that even when we do something right, it's usually followed by something that greatly pursues this positive effect. What I wanted to say to you, Mr. Trivan, since you're practically the only one here regarding these environmental laws, I wanted to give an example to Mr. Lonchar who made the effort, you're the first time in the assembly with his laws. For the first time, you come with your environmental laws and of course no one will dispute the importance of the ecological theme, but I have to tell you, what you have entered the Assembly for the first time, these famous bats and these migration birds, African and Euro-Asian migration birds of water habitats, regardless of what there is, of course, the need to edit this matter, I do not dispute it, but I do do it a little bit as a cartoon. Why did I mention Mr. Lonchar? Because he made an effort, he was one of the ministers who was welcomed with the opposition's most odymic, but he did come with laws that both fellow experts and the general public had little to object to. I resented it only now this last time it was about the organ donor law, so then this mandatory consent, or the default consent and assumed consent, was something that bothered me, and everything else I could support. What I didn't agree with Mr. Lonchar is, not in these laws and proposals, but in his too idyllic picture of the state of our health. Unfortunately, I have had the opportunity to see for myself recently and more than once, as many of us, the picture of our health care is far from that idyllic picture of Mr. Lonchar we hear here in the Assembly. I'm not saying he's guilty, I'm not saying there's no improvement, but you've had one illustration, it's stupid to say that he's here when there's no answer. I'll be back to you, Mr. Minister. So you should have tried, maybe thought about it, it's not a marketing thing, but I'd say you'd do a favor to that environmental theme that you're promoting here and you want to raise your awareness. That you came with some system or at least semi-system law in the field of ecology, not bats and migrating birds of African-Euro-Asian water habitats. It's a cartoon and even if I don't say it like this, it sounds like a cartoon and a little bit of people are laughing. In doing so, you know how much trouble there is in your area. I'd like to hear yours, even now orally, we could have a bill of law paper here, a system-based solution to wild dumps, a legal arrangement of matter or hydropower plant on the Old Mountain, a threat to environmental systems, and Serbia is rich in environmental and it's very dangerous, and that's how we threaten all citizens, both citizens and states, and domestic and foreign investors do it. That's what I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44933	Thank you. The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44934	Thank the chairman, Mr. Vukadinovica, too. You know, it's a long way to go if you're serious about suggesting things that are and how deep and how meaningful they are. If you expect me to do it overnight, whatever anyone thinks I'm doing, I won't do it. It's a simple question of my business ethics and not just morals. Personally, I think we've been really too long, for dozens of years, as you say, it doesn't matter who's responsible, who's responsible for the difficulties we've been exposed to, we're all guilty and we're all responsible in that sense. I don't think for another month, six months or a year it'll be crucial to do good things. That's why we're very serious about what we're going to come here with before you MPs and you're going to have a chance to estimate when these papers really come. I mean the bill, etc. From that point of view, I understand what you're saying, but to inform you, you can expect one of the most important laws in our country, not just for the environment. It is a law on climate change which, in my view, will be a fundamental roof law to put all the policies in our country under that roof and that we are really starting to have a consistent policy of environmental protection, because if someone asked me what I really think about, I don't think that I alone should be the Minister of Environment in Serbia, I think that every minister should at least be part of the Minister of Environment by doing his work on the principles of sustainable development and environmental protection. You'll get a chance to consider it, and in that sense, this very serious law, or proposal, comes here before you. To be honest, no matter what the migration species are here, no matter what the bats who are biological diversity or the biological balance of an extremely important species, I can understand that for someone, it's not as important as you say it yourself, and I'm willing to accept it as the possibility that someone else thinks it still doesn't say it's true, but honestly, I personally least expected you to use the term that's cartoon, or that at least it works that way. So I think you're far more serious than that choice of words and sentences, and that's why I want to leave it in the past right now. I expect the intellectuals in Serbia to support and understand that, even if the question of bats is very important and will never agree with you that this is relatively less important, even from the Climate Change Act that I just mentioned, so that I can illustrate to you what I actually think about it. But actually, how would you feel if you had an environment minister who would accept it the way you would, who would relativize that story? It wouldn't be good, you'll admit it. The Minister of Environment must believe that every law, every regulation is unusually important, and the speed in this case that you respect in some way and yet you understand that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment are due to our haste, that we allow our individual agricultural producers to participate in the IPARD. That's why other things came up on the agenda, so that we don't actually decide not to waste time and wait for a new moment to put all these agreements on the agenda. They are for me, except for our citizens and our natural faces and our peasants that I just mentioned, which are most important at this point, equally important to me, and that's the thing that's an axiom, which is not proven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44935	You have no right to a replica, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44936	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, we have been considering this set of laws relating to ecology, one in health for three days now. At first, since offered by previous discussions and by us MPs, as the minister said, we should believe that every law is equally important. Of course, sometimes we make a classification more important and less important, but these small laws, under the name of the law, solve some problems and some legislative regulations by supporting those basic Christian laws that they refer to. So we also need to be confident that we are considering every law in any area as equally important, because all these laws are building the legal regulatory progress of this country. Now to take a brief look at some of these laws, of course, I would be the first to, although a lot of talk about it, some discussion of mine, refer to giving consent and to the decision to amend the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It is rather debated, just to remind citizens that this financial plan is changing in this sense that the ministry's revenues and expenditures themselves are increasing by four billion and 100 million, out of which 3 billion and 600 million of the non-tapped resources of 2017 and 500 million from the budget reserves for the treatment of rare diseases. So, for this sum, income and expenditure are also increasing, and of course they are not additional funds from the budget but existing funds. In the opening presentation, the minister mentioned these rare diseases and only I would have added a little more to the definition that rare diseases are those diseases that have a prevalence of less than five people to 10,000 inhabitants. Sometimes statistics are very misleading with us, in medicine and everywhere, and the little turnaround in the final collection of people involved is great. The minister himself said that 36 million people in the EU suffer from rare diseases. It's one country for quite a population. These rare diseases pose a problem of health and treatment. In our terms, looking at this shift, we, in practice, agree that we have a diagnostic of some of the rare diseases every day in Serbia. The number of rare diseases is mentioned to range from six to eight thousand. Professionally speaking, these rare diseases, most of them are known many decades ago and are detailed in professional literature. The only tragedy of that past was that we didn't have any drugs. These children with congenital metabolic diseases, unfortunately, had a fatal, lethal end sooner or later. The only treatment was symptomatic. What does that mean, symptomatic? Medicinal products have been given to relieve their pain, to maintain the function of the biocardine, i.e. the heart or kidneys. So there was no cure for them. Medical science, the pharmaceutical industry progressed about two and a half years ago, three decades into the problem more closely and so on. substitution therapy, which is drugs, to simplify, to try to tell ordinary citizens, in every cell of our organism, there is a way to break down relevant matter and create new ones. This path to decommissioning what we bring into the cell and what cells need to create is regulated by substances called enzymes. If one enzyme is missing, the process stops. So, the process stops and these enzymes, and these are metabolic enzyme diseases, are genetically conditioned. Of course, medical science has succeeded in finding and substituting the appropriate enzyme deficiency in these patients with rare diseases in the last three decades. The fact that they were not recognized in the law by 2012, this is also the policy of a previous government that was certainly irresponsible, that I repeat, the diseases that were known decades earlier, described in literature, and the last three decades with the introduction of substitutive therapy, which they did not. That is why the ministry should be commended again, although many of my colleagues praised, which was only in 2012, the first fund provided for the treatment of children from rare diseases. In doing so, an institutional, transparent committee has been established immediately with criteria to properly target these funds and to determine who these patients are and who will be sent abroad according to the criteria. To comment on one more thing, of course, not everyone goes abroad. The diagnostics end abroad. After receiving therapy, these children do not need some large ones, since there have been comments now making a condition or not, come to therapy at children's wards or children's clinics. The rank of these treatments, these drugs, the substitution medications they prolong, they maintain life, they move around like this frame, to tell you that the citizens and you, from a thousand euros per week to 1,000 euros per month. Now, gather as much as you can, no parenting, no home budget can handle the treatment. That's why it took the state to form this fund that was increased to two billion dinars. It will certainly need to increase further, because unfortunately these rare diseases are becoming everyday, and now with certain therapy, and earlier without perspective and fatal outcome. I'd like to comment on something from a series of these environmental laws, that is, the Law on the Protection of the Environment. You see, environmental protection is said to be the fluid of modern society, or civilization. We have to admit it's ironic. Previously, it was the fluids of modern civilization, rosemation, damage and environmental damage. The progress of technology, industrialization, the creation of conditions for a more quality and comfortable life of people, has done a lot of bad things in the environment. But thank God, because they did, and what we have done as a human being, having done a lot of damage to the environment, the awareness has also arrived that we now have to fix it and make and do preventive measures not to bring it down. So environmental protection is a very important and important sector and what the minister said is, I agree, it is not just an area of action of the Ministry of Environment. All areas of our social life, including medicine, must be included. And we are in our own way disrupting the environment. So, there should be, and I hope and believe, a comprehensive programme where all other ministries must be involved in this regulation, that everyone in their area contributes in the right way to create a full picture of a healthy, advanced and improved environment, i.e. legislation related to the environment. One more aspect here to mention and I'll finish. You see, the government's work is not only seen in concrete laws, but also in certain visions and activities it provides. It should be said that the pre-accession European Union funds have been available to us since 2008, but according to some information I picked up from the Internet, up to 2014 to 10%, when I say citizens, I mean citizens, I also think of businesses, individual landownerships, local self-government, had their knowledge of the possibilities of pre-accession funds. Well, then, the policy of an affirmative government towards all these potential users has led to a much wider range of knowledge and much greater knowledge of the opportunities that individuals, individual landowners, entrepreneurs, local self-government can have to co-finance through these pre-accession funds. So I'm the law that's here, which facilitates and practically formally creates preconditions that our individual producers can compete for these pre-accession funds and this discussion is useful because it expands the range of people and the availability of knowledge that we can use these funds. Once again, in one interview, the European Integration Minister said that we, I think, have billions of euros from 2014 to 2020, which we can withdraw from those pre-accession funds. So it needs to be used and used for what it's intended for, and that's to protect the environment. Of course, in the voting day, I will support these proposals, because I think they are advanced, in the right sense of words, for the area and health and the environment, and that overlaps, both. One more sentence. If there was a disease register due to the life-threatening activity, it would be approximately six to eight thousand. Not to mention the pollution, the professional diseases of professional workers working in oil industries, all of which is the return of nature to the one we've armed, and to our very health, it's hurting us. That is why the programme should be very studioy, comprehensive and all ministries should be dedicated in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44937	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44938	Thank you. Today, changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment are on the agenda. A journalist just asked me in the hallway – will someone say anything about the proposed law? Since, here, the third day of the debate, we mainly listened to literary essays about how beautiful Serbia was in various parts of our country or how the previous government abused public resources. Here, I intend to say something about the legal solution proposed. But before that, you'll allow me to evacuate memories of this affair, too, "Let's Clean Serbia". I remember her very well. That was about three to four years before I got into politics. I walked her out with my civic eyes, and I remember, she snapped in public when information came out that the "Let's Clean Serbia" website was paid 26,000 euros. When you go to that website, that website had one single page that had one six links that didn't work. Today there is no site, it never worked, 26,000 euros, so we threw it in some well or someone's private pocket. I remember, afterwards, it came out to the public that at some tennis tournament that lasted one weekend, two days, the billboard was paid for the billboard "Let's Clean Serbia", half a million euros, as one SNS MP said earlier. At that time, I was so shocked by it, as a citizen, that I had to ask a transformed politician who was still in the DS at the time – how is that possible, how is that possible? And the answer was: but all is done according to the law. And here we come to the basic problem of these legal solutions that are on the agenda today. A colleague, Comic, spoke yesterday, in response to all the attacks on former Minister Dulic, that there was nothing since the violent criminal charges ended. So, citizens in what the government does recognize the abuse of public resources, but the judicial authorities don't recognize. Why? Because the problem is in the laws, gentlemen, it's up to us. We make legal solutions that allow public money to be misused. There has been a lot of talk here about how former Minister Dulic was in conflict of interest because he was chairman of the Board of Directors of the Environmental Protection Fund, but it is not said that the State Auditing Institution has filed a bunch of criminal and criminal charges not only against Minister Dulic, but also against all members of the Management Board, and no one here has found it appropriate to say that one of these members was also today's Environment Minister Goran Trivan. Since there was nothing at the time of these criminal charges, I believe that neither of them will in future be, in the sense of meeting the expectations of the public and citizens, that after we have now passed these legal solutions and once we again facilitate the use of public funds, nothing will end up and it will turn out that all abuses have been committed under the law. What this legal solution envisions today is the abolition of the obligation to call a public competition to spend the financial resources that flow to protect the environment. It is noted that we expect around 160m euros from EU pre-accession funds over the next two years. So, we will practically, by making these changes, make it easier to abuse. I'm not saying, there's no way to know in advance whether these abuses will be or not, but I'm saying there's no need to open the door to any possibility of abuse, because so far we've made sure that if the door is open, that door will pass. Speaking of pre-accession EU funds, I also have to say something that Serbian citizens do not know, which is that most of the funds that come to us in this way are spent on EU advisers' fees coming here to help us manage these funds. So out of those 160m euros, after the foreign advisers' fees are settled and after the party is settled, it would be good if 50m were left to do something with these money specifically. The DJB parliamentary group opposes these and these proposed solutions. There's got to be a public competition. There must be transparent criteria for the allocation of funds. A transparent report that will be published on the Internet about how every dinar and every euro that has entered the budget, eventually spent, must be. Don't convince us, not anymore, not the former or current authorities, from the DJB and not the citizens of Serbia, that we're all the same, because we're not. You're all the same, we're different. We know that we can do otherwise and we will eventually show that it can be different and that it is possible to lead the state in the public interest, completely transparent, with clearly defined criteria and responsible public money care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44939	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44940	I must draw attention here that the competition is not the only means of security of legal procedures. We work here according to methodologies that are EU methodologies. This is what we propose to strengthen the possibility of from the so-called. We can use the Green Fund for these purposes. It is understood that behind these amendments to the laws that we would expect you to perhaps bring here in the Assembly, make a rule that will also regulate the criteria, procedures and everything else. So there is no point in this providing the possibility of abuse, but there are European rules and ours on the basis of which we will do so. The future will show whether you're right or I'm right and that's the only thing I can agree with. It was necessary for the public to say that because of the procedural things, because I consider this a procedural thing, we don't have to agree on it either, it's not a good thing that anyone doesn't understand that in this way it explicitly helps individuals and individual producers that they can make those funds happen that are not as small as you already said. It's kind of like politicizing this question, but, of course, it's your right, and if that's the case, you're really going to prove that we're different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44941	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44942	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, has been injured. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. In fact, the esteemed lady talked absolutely about everything, about the character and the work of Dulic, about what, she didn't even read the law, but about what needs to be done, about the environment and the sick kids. I think it's a shame. These are two very important topics, especially the Law on Rare Diseases, about children who are our joy and life. That's what we need to talk about, not Minister Dulic. After all, he's been processed a few times, so we'll see what an epilogue is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44943	My colleague Malusic, I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Each MP adapts his discussion to his abilities. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Ljiljana Malušić: No. ) (Branka Stamenkovic: Replica. ) Collegine Stamenkovic, you do not have the right to reply. In no word has the minister met the conditions for you to receive a replica. The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44944	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU means meeting standards in the field of environmental protection, which requires building and proper infrastructure. For infrastructure projects in priority areas of waste and waste water management, significant funding is needed, which is not only possible from the funds of the republican and local budgets, but is of paramount importance to establish a sustainable system that implies the maximum use of pre-accession funds and security in providing public funds for co-financing. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to enable the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds and meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. The proposed provision allows the issuing of acts by the Ministry of Environmental Protection tasks, which determines the fulfilment of the conditions in the field of environmental protection, thereby also participating in a competition with the agricultural owners for the allocation of funds from IPARD funds. Without the proposed regulation of the legal basis for issuing an act on the fulfilment of environmental protection conditions, this participation of the issue would not be possible to conduct a competition. The key changes concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and more efficient provision of funds from the Green Fund for Infrastructure Projects from IPA Funds in the field of environmental protection. The proposed changes will have a very positive impact on the users of these funds. The greatest wealth that can be inherited from ancestors is a healthy genetic basis, but also a healthy environment. To keep it and keep the offspring healthy, we must all keep an eye on how we treat the environment in which we live. As the previous regime was concerned by 2012 about the protection of the environment of the town of Loznica and the environment, you will conclude yourself from my next exhibition. At 12km from Loznica, there is a small mining town of Zajaca in the cauldron through which the river Štira flows. It used to be the largest antimony mine in Europe. The arrival of "Farmacoma" for the owner of the "Zajač" mine and the existing human health and environmental well-being facilities has been greatly disrupted. The unconscious and boastful new owner has put his personal material benefit above the health and life of all citizens of the region. The production in high furnaces has increased from 500 tonnes per month to 2,500 tonnes. The existing filters on high furnaces could not absorb a five-fold increased call for production for which they were not intended. They're the least soluble ore and the most suspicious waste. The waste has come from all over the world and even from far away Australia. The furnaces performed the greatest activity during the night, to cover up the smokes of various colors that covered up the Rabbit and everything in it. All of this has resulted in negative consequences for everyone's health, including children. The Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut" has repeatedly conducted an analysis of the blood of pre-school and school-age children in Zajaca, as well as of the adult population to the presence of lead in the blood. Analysis has shown a catastrophic state. More than 80% of the children sampled had a lead level above the allowed upper limit, which is 10 micrograms per decilitre of blood. For comparison, in America, the upper limit is 5 micrograms. Even a 16-month-old baby had 16 micrograms of lead in her blood. So, not that they didn't have a fund to treat children with rare diseases, but they contributed by their behavior to the disorder of health and children and adults. Most of the pregnant women in the area were anemic. Most of the patients, unfortunately, are malignancies, especially young people. Most workers didn't have certified health books, i.e. the boss didn't pay for health or pension insurance for them. He paid most of his salary on his hands to avoid paying debts to the state. A young man, a smelter worker, barely survived a burn caused by a havary on a high furnace by pouring a hot mass upon him. He's been treated for VMA for months. Instead of any compensation for your damage, the boss got to keep quiet. A dangerous dump created as a result of the irresponsible business "Farmacoma", beside the regional road R 113A, was protected by nothing, a special disaster has been marked for all the living world in the area. Children who went to school that way and all the locals passing by breathed toxic evaporation, dangerous dust full of lead, arsenic, and who knows what else is harmful. In addition to air pollution, both soil and water have been destroyed. The local Rabbits in the 21st century must not use water, not only for drink, but also for technical water, because it is full of heavy metals. Sad or true. The estimate of the profits of the owners of Farmacoma and its associates is around 20m euros in Zajaca alone. How the previous regime took care of environmental protection is also the next example in my city. In the immediate vicinity of the center of Loznica, just about 300 meters away, within the former FAK factory, there are 75 tons of cyanide salts, from the time the factory worked. At the time of action – Let's clean Serbia, the waste is packed into a metal barrel, whose deadline has expired and the salt has begun to leak. As a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, I addressed the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, in hopes of removing this waste. I've come to know that I'm looking for something that's already been removed, done and paid, that's all. The paperwork is perfect, and in reality it's still standing in the same place. There is no end to the manipulations of the former regime. After privatisation, the state again paid one-third of the amount needed to export the same hazardous waste, which has not moved from place to this day. The sum of the money and who's in the signature is known to the D.A.'s office. I look forward to the promise of the current Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Trivan, that the Ministry will find a solution to remove hazardous waste. This will make the conditions for life in Loznica better, and the citizens healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44945	Thank you. Ljubica is a colleague of Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Excuse me, Minister before that. Here you go, Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44946	Let me say a few sentences on this acute question, and actually for the Password of the Chronic Questions. We've had a chance to hear how this has been managed in the environment over the past decade and to draw attention to ourselves and say that solutions, of course, always exist. They're not easy and they're not cheap, but what difference does it make when we have to take care of, above all, the health of our citizens that the MP before you spoke about, that umbilical cord and the relationship between environmental protection and health in itself. Let's just mention, by the way, because of you from Loznica, that you've already referred to us as the Ministry before, taking care of your citizens and that we are at your request and by the simple work that belongs to us, very much involved in all of this. My colleague is sitting next to me, and we're in agreement with you, of course, and, first of all, about the dump we're talking about, so since there's a lot of problems there, we've done a project review, when it comes to what we're talking about and that we could even start public procurement. Public procurement has been launched, it will cost about 90 million, so 87, if I'm not mistaken. The process is ongoing, and you can expect us to do that part of the job first, and then we start to deal with other problems that we have not only in Loznica. It seems to me that some better time for Loznica is coming anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44947	Thank you. Ljubica is a colleague of Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44948	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Trivan, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health, in the last few years, in particular for six years, has made very important and very important steps in terms of the situation of rare diseases, and, consequently, changes in the financial plan of RFZO for health insurance for 2018. Since citizens and their families have great interest in this topic, I will repeat the facts that my colleagues from the SNS have pointed out. In fact, it is a figure of 500 million dinars, all of which were transferred neutral assets on 31.12.2017, which increased the expenditures and expenditures of the RFO from 3.6 to 4.1 billion dinars. The originally planned billion and 500 million dinars, with these additional 500 million dinars, are intended to treat patients with rare diseases, so that today about 200 patients are treated with rare diseases. Since 2012, people with rare diseases have not had the possibility of adequate treatment, which means that in 2011, the state has defined zero dinars for patients with rare diseases. In 2012, eight patients were treated for the cost of the state and 130 million dinars were allocated from the health ministry's budget on behalf of those costs. In 2013, the same amount of funds for rare diseases was provided. In 2014, rare illnesses are gradually increasing from year to year. According to the calendar year already mentioned, 260 million dinars have been allocated from the state budget for these purposes. In 2015, 335 million dinars were invested in the interventions of the Ministry of Health for those purposes. In 2016, 600 million dinars were allocated for the purpose of treating people with rare diseases. In 2017, a billion and 100 million dinars. In 2018, a billion and 500 million dinars represent a 36% increase compared to 2017, and with these 500 million dinars, 2 billion dinars, which is 13 times the amount of funds intended for rare diseases. In fact, the state, as we can see, is making great efforts to enable patients with rare diseases to receive adequate treatment and appropriate therapy. It is a systematic, continuous introduction of new innovative medicines on the list of RFZOs, many of which are intended for people with rare diseases. When we talk about changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Protocols concerning the Environment and Nature, what is primarily to be pointed out is their importance and need to be singled out as such and placed in the category of those of existential importance per person and its ecosystem. Today's global society, not only Serbia's country, faces environmental and environmental problems. Human care and negligence question the survival of the entire planet because nature daily warns us that we need to take more care of it. The result is negative effects on the ecosystem and the environment. We need to understand the importance of preserving ecosystems and environments and changing our bad habits. For example, all climate change and most natural disasters are the results of people's negative actions. I'll mention some of them, the greenhouse effect, the exploitation of natural resources that are limited. For example, the hectares and hectares of forests, dumps all over nature, which puts plants and animals at risk, and us ourselves. In all this, there are particularly interesting factors that are related to the achievement of education and education and the formation of ecological culture and environmental awareness of students, these are families, kindergartens, schools, colleges, barracks, businesses, social organisations, etc. The family is a very important factor in youth education, which in principle acts positively in terms of the development of the environmental values of its members. It builds a formalist relationship in achieving immediate environmental concerns. The peer group, along with the family, is also a significant factor in the social awareness of young people. In some ways, it surpasses even family and school. Peers are potentially close to each other, they have the same attitudes in assessing the social position of their generation. It is necessary to look at the values of the world of young people, their needs and ways of looking at environmental hazards, so that they too are engaged in protecting and improving the environment. Hence, every country, including ours, should affirm scientific thought and value as the most national good, and our country also has creative predispositions and scientific potential, a material base and all other scientific and professional bases. When we talk about the town of Nis, I would like to point out that we are doing the city's programming development, and in this context is also the programme - Supporting the development of investments in the field of environmental protection. It is the project "Collecting and Processing of Waste Waters in the City of Nis". The operator of the implementation is the town of Nis, the Office for Local Economic Development and Projects. Aid sources, in terms of project-technical documentation, are the Swedish Agency for International Development Co-operation, through the programme "Providing investment in the field of environmental protection", the Ministry of Agriculture for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia, and the total value of the project is 805,000 euros and 55m euros for the realisation of investments, and the expected deadline for completion of the project technical documentation is December 2019. This is an example of positive practices as we think about protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44949	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44950	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, raising awareness of the numerous environmental challenges and the need to preserve the environment is one of the priorities to be systematically worked on. In realising this goal, it is desirable that each local self-government has a environmental protection programme, with a 10-year action plan for the next period. The document would represent a strategic framework of action in the field of environmental protection and promotion management. The needs would be recognised, priorities defined for the next period, and everything in line with the National Environment Protection Programme would gradually be implemented every year through regular programmes. The funds would be provided through various funds, which are available, above all, through EU financial lines, which is very interested in the area of environmental protection. Factors that participate in environmental protection, from air, land, water, nature, natural resources, waste management, waste water should be covered, and all of these elements are necessary for the functioning and protection of the environment. It is also necessary to develop the green industry, the recycling industry, regulate primary waste selection and address wastewater issues and all other issues. Local self-government needs to raise awareness of environmental protection and also of saving through the introduction of electronic materials for local congregations and the development of electronic administrations, in order to create a transparent, efficient public administration in the service of citizens and businesses, an improved service that saves time and money for both citizens and businesses. As regards Bajna Basta, the municipality from which I come, it is necessary to make use of the potential that our municipality owns and improve the protection of the environment in the territory of the municipality, the maximum development of sustainable tourism, to create a strategy for the development of tourism, in the area of Bajna Basta municipality, as an initial document for the development of tourism and promotion of environmental management, which would mark all suitable destinations for the construction of the necessary tourist infrastructure, with a specific reference to priorities, which would be determined closer. Tara National Park is of paramount importance for local, economic and sustainable development throughout Western Serbia, but until such a document is made and applied, planned revenues will not be made. Nature and environmental protection is not a cost, but an investment and an engine of local and economic development through the development of sustainable tourism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44951	Thank you. Ljiljana Malušić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44952	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am going to talk about the draft decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2018. First of all, it should be said that the state today separates two billion dinars for treating children from rare diseases. Rare illnesses involve diseases that form approximately tens of thousands of inhabitants of five children or five adults. Fortunately, in 2012, when the SNS came to power, a Fund for the Treatment of Children of Rare Diseases was created. It's hard for me to talk about it because parents who have sick children say it's harder than having a sick child that you don't have the money to treat those kids. Well, since 2012, we've had money to treat kids like this. I'm proud to be in the party that founded this fund. There's been a lot of talk about our Minister Loncar, so I'll just say a few sentences. Ever since he came to the head of the ministry, he's created a system in health care, and not only that, a new Clinical Center in Nis, a renovated mass of infirmarys, a new infirmary, a new reception station, an absolutely one boom in health care, and we've just started working. Let's just remember until 2012 what kind of health care was, completely devastated, abandoned, dirty, with a mass of affairs. This is how SNS works with its coalition partners. This is a responsible government, it has a responsible social policy. What's still very important and what needs to be pointed out is that there's also a college center since Monday, as of October 1st, this month, and all parents who have sick children can answer phones, because automatically all the professional faces, all the doctors are meeting, there's a consilimation being made, and it goes on. The most important thing for a sick child from rare diseases is that he should react immediately. Now we have money, and we have ten times as much as in 2012. In this year, two billion dinars were allocated to treat children from rare diseases and about 200 children go to treatment, unlike in 2012, when only eight children went to treatment. It should be pointed out that next to this car center, every penny invested in this fund is very transparent and everything is verifiable. I mean, every six months there's control, so anyone who wants to see where this money goes can check it out. Much to say, since 2013, when 235 billion were invested, we have reached a figure ten times larger. It's a pleasure to be able to tell my parents something like that. There is one suggestion that out of each hell of a cigarette one dinar or of every drunk beer one dinar goes for children suffering from rare diseases, all children will be cured. It should be noted that the Batut Institute has registered all diseases. These diseases are, unfortunately, between six and eight thousand in the world. But at least there's a register, so the speed here is important and now much faster, we work better and we treat children much faster. Everyone's got their own cross. I hope every child on this planet survives. Thank you for your attention. In voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44953	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44954	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment are, of course, important, because they allow better use of IPARD funds for natural persons as holders of agricultural land, entrepreneurs, business societies, agricultural cooperatives. And the huge benefits of the Republic of Serbia by using IPARD and IPA funds, which were allocated 160m euros by 2020. Great resources are available, only certain conditions need to be met and taken. Why don't you take advantage of it? That's exactly what this law allows us to do. But, of course, this is an opportunity to mention other ecological areas, because our beautiful planet is crying out for help. Nature has given us everything and we must repay it for the welfare of future generations. You can certainly do something for the planet Earth, and the smallest contribution is great. We're a small country, but we can do something. The Ministry of Environment in the Government of the Republic of Serbia founded the government of the Republic of Serbia, under the leadership of Ana Brnabic, last year. And, precisely realizing the importance of this area, not only because of Chapter 27 - joining the EU, but because it's minutes to 12 to do something for the country's planet, the only one we have. The Environment Ministry has appealed to citizens to report waste in nature, noting that only common forces can protect the environment for future generations. One of the priorities of this ministry is the issue of water and garbage. Many citizens and media have recognized and condemned the pollution process, for example, environmental environments, reacting to a video on the social networks of a local woman who throws garbage in the Rasina River and revealing the identity of a municipal inspection has filed a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. There's this one in every middle. Countless wild dumps have been cleaned up, but they're being created over and over again. Burna's reaction to the public shows the commitment of citizens to protecting nature and raising environmental awareness. The inspection services, along with the security citizens, are the main link to the implementation of this law. This ministry is working on serious reforms in the area. On 24 September this year, the Institute for Nature Protection of Serbia marked "No Car Days", as part of the European Mobility Week event, has been conducting education on endangered plant and animal species in our country for the youngest citizens, to learn more about protected areas and natural resources and rarest in our country. This year, for example, is today October 5th, the "International Fair for Environmental and Natural Resources EcoFair" is held at the Belgrade Fair, the largest and most representative set of this kind in the region, whose sponsor is the Ministry of Environment Protection, which has an economic and educational character. It is dedicated to systems and mechanisms of environmental protection and the central theme – green economy, recycling industry and waste management. Both programmes, both exhibitive and this professional, cover all segments of environmental protection, air and water and natural resources, local self-government, municipal equipment, non-governmental sector etc. That's why I'd like to thank all the organizations that contribute to this area. Last year, at this same fair, for example, ORKA organized a workshop called "Ecological Corner", which includes projections of ecological films, education on animal welfare, nature protection, sustainable agriculture, nature protection and other problems, such as the problem of abandoned animals. At the same stand, their educational programme was taken by the Institute for Protection of Serbia, the Natural History Museum, the Public-Communal Enterprise "City Cleanness". So, they all gathered around the same goal, and at the initiative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I urge that more attention be paid and recycling everything, because of the greening and the saving, because investment in it is double worth it. I point this out because I think education and raising awareness among the youngest is very important. Some of my colleagues were already talking about it. Raising small legs to love and preserve nature is important for the future of our country and our planet Earth. So I appeal primarily to the media to remind them of this, over and over again, of the importance of nature conservation and non-pollution. The collective awareness of reminding citizens to report waste disposal and the speed of punishment, this is very important – the speed of punishment for all those who do not find it difficult to go to the forest or along a clear stream, a national park and a waste dump that will not be broken down for thousands of years. Exactly, this government has established a special Ministry of Environment because it understands the importance of this area and wants to solve problems seriously. From the middle I come from, the local government of Mladenovac, now for us is a large project of 70 million dinars for water purification in the settlement of Medlužje in Mladenovac, which was extremely undeveloped and uncovered by a sewerage network, but we believe that this project, which is being done after 20-30 years, is one concrete action in favour of everything I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44955	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Stanija Compirović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44956	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the protection of the environment implies a set of different procedures and measures that prevent environmental threats, with the aim of preserving biological balance. Environmental defense is a permanent obligation for all members of society. Care about the environment is a priority of society for society as a whole. A healthier environment is the basis for the preservation of human existence, for the healthy development of society and for the important factor for the level of living population. In my presentation, I want to stay in the middle from which I come. Zubin Potok municipality or Ibarski Kolasin, often called in the people, is located in northern Kosovo and Metohija. It is located on the slopes of two mountains – Wet Gore and Rogoznica. The territory of the municipality of the Ibar River, on which the artificial lake of Gazada was built. Thanks to its natural characteristics, the specific geomerfological peas and various flora and fauna, Zubin Potok municipality was named the first ecological municipality in the region. The mountain of Mokra Gora is mainly built of Bosniak rocks and is rich in water. On Wet Gora there are several smaller, glacially karst dents, dry and periodically filled with water. The most beautiful aesthetic and landscape atmosphere provides Savi's lake, which is about a hundred meters away from Savina River and is constantly underwater. Its almost correct, circular shape and considerable depth undoubtedly indicate a glazing origin. The beautiful mountain flora is complemented by several endemic species, from which Serbian Raymond and Dwarve Bora stand out. In addition to the diverse animal world and attractive game, the representatives of the fauna in Wet Gora are a large and dark bear whose numbers are on the rise. Lake Gazivod, which has recently been at the heart of political developments because of its strategic and hydroenergy significance, also has exceptional value because of the quality of water. Namely, water is a different quality, which means that, apart from drinking, it can be used for other purposes. The fish fund of this lake is well-known, like the mussels from the gazewater lake, carp, trout and so forth. Again, the highest water quality rapper and somewhat endemic is river cancer. The Ibar River with its tributaries can also be praised for its high water quality, the wealth of stream trout, endemic species of amphibians that can be found in these waters. Forests, plains, pastures and meadows of Ibar Kolashin are often inhabited by various types of forest fruit which, alongside mushrooms from this area, are one of the important export potentials and resources that are exploited and whose exports are in constant growth and are increasingly appreciated on the European market. As this area is in a specific geopolitical position, as well as for the entire AP area of Kosovo and Metohija, it is necessary to invest a number of measures to protect potentials that will be the backbone of economic development in the future and through the development of active tourism. The production of healthy food, the collection of forest fruits. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of stopping illegal forest cuttings, unplanned game abandonment, fruit-gathering. Investment and shale is also expected to be invested in the restoration of cut-off forests and water protection. I expect the state of Serbia, the ministry and the leading institutions active in this area to take part in improving the environment, but also in a stronger way in all flows of sustainable development and life in Kosovo and Metohija. I will call on my fellow MPs to support the laws that lie ahead of us in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44957	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure want the word? Here you go, colleague Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44958	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with your associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I must say at first that I am truly sorry that Minister Zlatibor Loncar is not with us today. We waited for him yesterday almost all day. We were hoping for a presence today, and thank you very much for your continued participation in this debate until this moment. I'm going to ask you to pass on to him what I still have to look back on, although he's not here, so if nothing else, following his behavior to those who were also not there and couldn't defend themselves, although I'm sure he'll be given what I have to say very quickly, and let me ask, and that's why it was infinitely important for him to be there. In my knowledge, Minister Loncar has taken two oaths in his life, as far as I'm aware. It was supposed to be the Hippocratic oath and the Ministerial oath before us. However, it is a general impression, not only of my own, but also of the great part of Serbia's public, that it is flagrantly breaking and almost daily both of these oaths, as well as of its performance in parliament in the opening statement when it explained the sixth item of the agenda. I don't really know if he's ever taken a third oath somewhere before, because apparently he's only adhered to something he didn't commit to the citizens, but apparently he's been handling some other criteria, because what he did in his opening statement has really been additionally scandalized by this Assembly, not only because, by running the tabloids, he's succumbed to it, although I haven't seen that it was foreign to him, to criminalise, to satanize, to humiliate all those who disagree with him, all those who don't support the ruling majority that he belongs to, even though after two and a half years, I'm surprised that one minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is unaware that he is the minister of all citizens and those who voted him, or the majority who didn't, and who didn't vote at all, therefore, he is in a position to represent the interests of all their citizens regardless. Why am I saying that he scandalized this session? Because, first of all, he came to explain the sixth item of the agenda relating to the rebalancing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and there is no man, not in this room, I am sure in the state of Serbia, who will criticise any money that is directed to treat both rare diseases and treatment and disease conditions that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, what we call treatment abroad, but these are two completely different things, two completely different budgetary positions, two different economic classifications, and the minister has made a confusion, as we say. So even MPs who tried to defend him didn't understand what it was, don't read the budget, doesn't necessarily mean that everyone can read the budget, as you send us a fifth of seven points, it's really hard to concentrate and, of course, within a minimum time frame, but these are two completely different things. Everything here was also mixed with criticism that was directed to those who, by their voluntary work, by their personal integrity, by their public as artists, as actors, tried to put part of themselves into humanitarian work, they were naturally foretold, although they focused on treatment abroad rather than on the treatment of rare diseases. So what's on the agenda today doesn't have any dilemma that everyone here supports. And, of course, I have to add that I'm sure everyone would wish here and in the whole country that no single dinar is spent from all these funds and from all these positions, because that would mean that everyone is healthy in this country. The second thing is that he was talking about people, organizations that cannot defend themselves, which are not represented in this National Assembly, which is what I primarily think of the humanitarian organization "Supply Life" and of Sergei... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44959	Comrade Tepic, I must interrupt you. You obviously weren't in the O.R. or here you're twisting certain events from Mr. Secretary Lonchar's discussion. He did not speak about it in his opening statement, but he answered the questions of the MPs and do not prevent ministers from answering questions. If you want to ask a question to Mr. Loncar, you'll have a chance anyway at some point, and now I'm asking you to talk about the topics and points of the agenda that are here. So if we agree on the plan and the work programme of the Health Protection Fund, it has nothing to do with the budget first. First you learn to read. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44960	Vice President Arsic, you and I are not the same person that you would teach me how to explain my presentation on agenda points. Let me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44961	Comrade Tepic, we are not the same person on good luck. That's the first thing. The other thing, I have no intention of teaching you, you're old enough, mature and educated to make decisions on your own. I'm just distracting you to get back to the agenda. And don't twist the facts, because I have to take care of what the MPs are doing while I'm preside over it. When I don't chair, someone else will do it for me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44962	I'm really asking you best not to interrupt me. Is it possible that 17 more minutes you can't stand my exposure and keep interrupting me? So I'm talking, of course, about the agenda points, looking back at everything that's already been said. If what's said, what I'm looking at, you think it's past the agenda point, then all those previous ones had to be warned and stop also from talking about agenda points. I didn't make anything up here, I didn't add anything here. There are rock notes, I read them very carefully, I'm sure you are, too. So I absolutely didn't step out of the agenda and repeat what was the opening statement of the minister and please don't interrupt me anymore. Hold out for a few more minutes as long as it belongs to me. So he created Minister Loncar, as I said, a general confusion and equated the treatment of conditions and diseases that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia and the treatment of rare diseases. There is no doubt that they are treated differently through the RFO. We have listened to what are rare diseases and how they are detected and treated, but a picture has been created that this is why Serbia's public has been on its feet since we had the last case, unfortunately tragically ended on Saturday with a four-year-old boy and we've had the tabloids and the whole satanization of these unfortunate circumstances transferred here in the opening presentation of Minister Loncar in parliament. What I am obliged on behalf of the citizens to ask Minister Loncar this occasion, on behalf of the citizens I represent, would it have been different if it had not been for the disease to win life, would the government and the humanitarian foundation "Super life" and Sergei Trifunovic, whom the government has decided to pay off certain funds, would they be heroes for saving one life? Instead, we faced a tragic skill on Saturday, and on the same day, a harangus headed for this foundation and their representatives. Please, I have three questions for Minister Loncar and I am asking them on behalf of Sergei Trifunovic, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia because I am a representative of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia here. The first question is -- how is it possible that someone who is a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of this country, should base their claims on tabloid inscriptions? The second question – did he feel uncomfortable that as someone who was proven to have been associated with a criminal group associated with... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44963	Comrade Tepic, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44964	Can I go on? Thank you. Third question on behalf of Sergei Trifunovic, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia – would you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44965	My colleague Tepic, you will receive another reminder. After that, it's taking away words. That's for sure. Let me just let something like this happen, I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44966	Vice President Arsic, you told me five minutes ago that if I had any questions, I'd ask him and direct him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44967	Set it up in your personal name. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44968	Will you give me back my time and...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44969	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44970	... to tell me how much time I have left since you turned off the minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44971	There are 11 minutes and 34 seconds left, and I don't pay you back because I've stopped every time I've interrupted you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44972	Thank you. I have another request for you, Minister Trivan, to pass it on to Minister Loncar, which is, when he comes here next time, I would have told him anyway that he came, that there was no need to yell at the MPs, to tell us what he won't give and what he won't agree to, which he also did a few days ago here, three days ago, I don't think, there's no need to imitate his president, Alexander Vukic, who maybe to the ministers, I don't know, or to his associates yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44973	Now I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44974	It's completely amazing that you're not able to hold out for another ten minutes. Now I've spent a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44975	It's not ten minutes, I can endure much more than you think, but I will not allow the dignity of the National Assembly to be humiliated by the ministers or otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44976	It's an honor to have these sexist comments that also make women, MPs, who laugh at the sexist comments of the chairman of one of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44977	Everyone has the right to consider what kind of training they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44978	Can I continue speaking without your distraction?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44979	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44980	You're the only one who's been bothering me the whole time. I don't know why. When it comes to the acts of your ministry, it's one law, I could certainly blame you for anything. We've been commenting a little bit, texting through the media, and we've done it through the MPs' institute, and I could blame you for not answering me, or not adequately, any of the questions I've asked you. Generally, the answers were to transfer jurisdiction to the Ministry of Agriculture, counterpart Nedimovic was transferring the ball to you because I was sending the same questions to both ministries, as one splits into two parts. I could resent you and the wider the public or at least the younger public met you only in the course of the Belgrade campaign this spring, except for those older people who know you as the minister of sports, but to say some general public in the most direct work introduced you only when you began to visit the site where it was discovered, i.e. by smuggling buried cancerous waste. And it was only in the Belgrade campaign and it ended without an epilogue or at least to let the public know what happened to all of it, because somehow it won't be that only operators are guilty, someone gave them permission to work. It won't be that the only measure is to take permission from unconscious operators. I'm very interested in who was giving them these permits? What is now being done by persons who have been in charge of issuing permits to these, apparently, unconscious operators. I'd have enough against you when it comes to avoiding any locations in Pancheva. I come from Vojvodina, I come from Pancheva and I invite you when you announce a visit to Pancheva and another detected smuggling amount of carcinogenic waste to stop by and visit Petrochemy Panchevo. I could blame you for not doing anything there to remove a huge dump almost 100% live in the middle of a factory, a huge amount of extremely harmful asbestos. You know for sure it collapsed and part of the facility where it was all set up. You certainly know that from the air you can see through the Google map of the stain of the waste in the middle of the petrochemicals, how big it is. You don't see the factory, you see the stain, that's the waste. You also know that with the living at such a high percentage, it's over 80% purity, there's almost nothing you can do. Some people work there, some people live there. I am sure that you also know very well about the problem of the pink furnace, from a year and a half ago and that the Petrochemy administration was aware of it and that cancerous chromium not only harms the citizens of Panchev, but also Belgrade, and that nothing has been done today. I could also criticise you on nepotism against Petrochemy, but I won't be ministers. I've decided to trust you, I've listened to you very carefully, and I've decided to trust you. Because I have the impression that you were left on the ice. I have the impression that the clear message you received with almost 300 amendments from a colleague who, as they announced, will vote for this law, 300 amendments not to the law, to four members of a law, not to the whole law, some have a hundred members. Four members of the amendments to the laws of this fellow of yours who say they will support you have made nearly 300 amendments. What did they show you? You don't even know how to write a member's change? Do you know how to prepare material for the assembly session? I don't know who the greater defeat is, for them, who, however, say they will vote, although none of these amendments will likely be adopted, or for you, who are the first address and commendation, but also for criticism. I listened to the debate of some colleagues who have given you a elegant way of putting out harsh tones in relation to your criticism and your attempt to answer safely in front of the citizens, especially the drying up of rivers and the major problem with mini-electric power plants. It was the only time you didn't nod your head while someone was talking. That body speech spoke a lot, too, which is why I decided to trust you. Why do I want to trust you extra? Because I know you can't deal with imaginary legal entities that we can reasonably suspect behind them are SNS, which are direct environmental pollutants, as is the case in Vrbas. And thank you to the Vojvodjan research centre "Vois" who has been following it for a year and a half. It's about what happened. to a barry, otherwise the legal person "Eko vet Plus", which the Vrbashans call Auschwitz, but which was reportedly aimed at also in the pre-election campaign for the Belgrade elections, from almost a third of the Vojvodina municipalities, 18 of them, draws over a million euros for completely abnormal animal waste disposal contracts, for the so-called "Eko Vet Plus", which was actually kidnapped. The hijacking facility was otherwise an EU donation previously magically missing, no one knew what was wrong with it, so suddenly the cafeteria appeared, so some works on the roof and then literally budgets were sucked out in record time for several weeks. So the contracts were broken in all the municipalities and cities I mentioned. So, a third of the Duke's cities. Contracts with former associates, with public enterprises or with cafes or with privates who did regular annual work for two or three hundred thousand dinars for two or three hundred thousand dinars, consisted of contracts with an "Ecovet Plus" legal face, for tens of millions of dinars in just a few months. Of course, when the Belgrade campaign ended, which we consider to be financed by a heavy piece from these dutiary budgets this way, the contracts began to break up. It is very important to note that the first director or owner of Branislav Radisic, a handball player from Novi Sad, who supported the campaign of Aleksandr Vukic with 40,000 dinars, then when "Vois" started writing about this, transferred ownership to Todor Simprag, who was a member of the council of SNS in the municipality of Srbobran, and when the journalists called him, he ran off with his head regardless of his resignation on the same day. So there'll be fire where there's smoke. The warlocks say black smoke, smelly smoke, they're starting to actually choke, it's hard for them to live in Verbas. There's a colleague here from Vrbasa, I'm also asking you to pay attention not only to the pollution you see, but also to the pollution that sucks out our budgets for party purposes. And because you're left on the ice while you're fighting for some stuff here, and we have SNS contaminants in every sense, I totally understand your position and I don't know... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44981	I take away your word, colleague Tepic. Right on the line, just to see who's in the Rules of Procedure first. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic? (Marian Risticevic: I volunteered as authorized. First, right on the line, Mr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44982	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. More things to react to. First, the claim was made that the minister, the tabloids, are used as a selection of information, specifically referring to the case of transfer of funds from the fund that should be used to help children into a private investment fund. I'm looking at the foundation's website now. So their website and their statement can now be read, it stands on the front page of the site, the foundation, they say, has invested money in the Ilirik investment fund in order to call off these funds, in line with the provisions of the Law on Delegations and Foundations. So, so much for whether it's the tabloids or something they're saying themselves. Secondly, I have here an opening statement from the minister and I can give it to anyone who needs it. A single word in the minister's opening statement did not say on this subject. So it's the truth that works. What he did say is that the defined means of treating rare diseases are increasing to two billion dinars, namely for the new 500 million dinars, and what probably hurt, he reminded that in 2011, zero dinars were for rare diseases. Today, 200 children are being treated, two billion dinars are being singled out for this number of users. Thirdly, I expect sexist comments to be commented by someone who has gained strength and will to react to the shameful performance of Zeljko Veselinović, the then chairman of the Ljatician Alliance, the tycoon and others. Whoever didn't do it, there's no need to plead on that subject ever again. Third thing, campaign financing. Funding campaigns, good information on how to successfully do it in an unfairly fair way, can be found out for example. From the Wolf of Jeremiah, he made seven million seem to me to have spent solid foreign currencies on the subject. I suggest you follow the good case of his brother Ho and the charges by the American institutions that he's involved in illegal arms trafficking. There's a lot to learn about it. In the end, the amendments to the SNS and our relationship to procedures, if anyone guards the dignity of the National Assembly, it's us. When it is said – we have reasonable reasons to doubt, I say now – we have reason to suspect that for these good means, additional funds for treating children will be re-voting me, and that those who ask that question will not even appear, as they did not even show up to vote for "Zo's Law".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44983	The word is by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44984	Thank you. Yesterday I was talking about this bill, and today I would like to remind myself of the period until 2012 when the members of the Management Board of the Environmental Protection Fund were Oliver Dulic, Nemanja Komazec, Verica Novski, Shimon Đermati and Mr Goran Trivan the current Minister of Ecology. The chairman of the board of directors was Minister Dulic, regardless of the obvious conflict of interest. There are a number of criminal charges filed by the DRI against then-Minister Dulic, his State Secretary, Fund Director and the complete board of the Environmental Protection Fund. I ask the question to the competent state authorities – how long have they been with these criminal charges? It's been five, six years, a long time, and it's been very serious crimes of unintended use of budgets prescribed by Article 362 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia and the abuse of official position, prescribed by Article 359 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. So, the SNS on the one hand criticises the Fund's work justifiably. Let's just remember the affair with the site that was paid for 25,000 euros, it was said here, the "Let's Clean Serbia" action that turned into a clean budget and this was talked about here in parliament, as colleagues from the SNS said yesterday, and a number of other affairs that had passed without any sanctions. On the other hand, not only has he not prosecuted anyone, but he has appointed a member of the board of directors of the Environmental Protection Fund, against which the DRI has filed more criminal charges on, no less, but on the post of minister. Gentlemen, what are you talking about here? However, Mr. Trivan may have recommended good results in Belgrade as a secretary for environmental protection. That's enough, he's asking the question – what happened to those criminal charges? Where's it stuck? I repeat, reports have been filed by the DRI and it's been many years. We should remind ourselves that in 2001, Mr. Trivan was sentenced under the Law on disposable income tax and extra property. The fine of 88,000 German marks didn't pay. The law was abolished, the property was kept. And two, though I might say, made it through October 18, 2001...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44985	Comrade Michaelovich, we are not here to comment on any verdicts or investigations or anything, you know that well. So, there is no such thing, please continue your debate in the parliamentary and correct tone towards fellow Members of Parliament, towards the minister and his team who came here to talk about the subject. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44986	I thank you for meeting me that it doesn't exist. I was absolutely convinced until a few seconds ago that it existed. I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for being completely misinformed. Thank you so much for having me, I'm so sorry I've been misinformed so far. I've got a bunch of similar materials here, but since that, right, as you say it doesn't exist, then we're gonna skip it a little bit, and then we're gonna say it's not all negative. Here, see, I have two sides of these negative things that, right, don't exist, so let's say something that exists. For example, if it's not all negative, the minister might think that we D.J.B. don't love him, God forbid we don't think any good of him. I mean, let's just say we commend his intention that he pointed out here yesterday to solve the problem of wild dumps. Great, I'll say hello. But if he thinks he's been saving them for nine years, like he did in Belgrade, and we're all witnesses to what the city looks like, then I'm asking him to give up. Mr. Trivan, you've shown what you know and what you don't know, nine years as the first man to protect the environment in Belgrade. So I'm asking you to stop selling us fog and get out of a place you're obviously no match for. One thing I can't keep quiet, what we almost heard, and that's the issue of borders with Croatia. The best and most recent evidence that you are not up to your job is your statement on the boundaries where, imagine, the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not care if the border with Croatia is 100 or 200 meters to the left or right. Here's what negative selection can lead to. This is an eclectic example of the negative selection of personnel that DJB is fighting hard against. In order to stop talking about the things I thank Mr Marinkovic and thank him for, I would warn him that they do not exist, I would end up saying that DJB is asking for the immediate shift of Minister Trivan and we are calling on all opposition parties to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44987	Thanks, buddy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44988	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising members 106th and 107th. I am sorry that a colleague from "There was enough" did not realize that Minister Dulic performed the post until 2012, that it was not Oliver Dulic and what he was doing as a minister. I think you've been obliged to interrupt the speaker while he's been making an awful lie at the expense of Minister Dulic and his team and his associates, and he can shake hands with a SNS who's spent seven years running an attack on Mr Dulic. As his friend and party mate, I had to react. I ask you and I warn you to stop such speculation, that someone here is being accused without any basis or argument, because these people have families and I think that such a practice should stop. And I'm so glad someone in the opposition is doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44989	Thank you, fellow Milojich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44990	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the sick king of a healthy poor man sees the crown on his head. So health isn't everything, but without health, it's nothing, we have to be careful. As someone who was a member of the RFO Management Board, I recently resigned, I'm familiar with some details, I was also a victim. Out of it, I've funded, and I'd love to, he says -- the hand that gives, doesn't talk. The hand that receives should speak. But given the amount of political anger shown here in terms of a foundation that's supposed to be apolitical, and we know how much it is, because the foundation's bearer is going to the main committees of that party, given the amount of anger, I have to show it. I'd very much like to cross my phones, this one from May, has crossed more phones, so officially and privately I wanted people's health to be everything, to make the healthy poor happier than the sick king, and not even the king to be sick, but above all, that health has our workers, our peasants, our housewives, our common people, the one to be abused. The one who invested enormous energy on today, to make it better, experienced his wallets and stomachs emptying out those who were filling their stomachs and their bills. That's exactly why I'd like to cross phones with them. Well, I guess now I have some rights. As a victim of persecution a year and a half ago, I didn't say a single moment – people, I was both in an official and otherwise helpful way. I wasn't even defending myself. I've released the unprecedented outbursts of anger, you, Mr. Chairman, certainly know that. The press conferences were held, it was invented, it had to be the Prime Minister to defend me, even some colleagues or colleagues from here have fenced themselves, and if I hadn't done anything, they were familiar. That's the kind of rage I've had political towards me. Now it's the outcry of the minister. I just can't let that happen, no matter what I'm not his lawyer. I was a member of the RFZO Management Board, co-financed, for example, the Blic Foundation, the Rasko-Prizren Foundation, the Actor's Foundation, the Sapic Foundation, the Unicef Foundation, children, etc. At any rate, two messages should be played. But when the state gives a private foundation 250,000 euros, it's public money, and even the one we're texting is kind of public. Mrs. Radeta will certainly explain it better than I do. The people have a right to know where his money went. If someone was human and from their small salary and from their small pension of 14,000 dinars or my father of 11,000 dinars, if he was human and singled out 200 dinars, then he has the right to know where his 200 dinars went and the state authorities need to make it possible for him. I liked it whether I like it or not, the people have the right to know where his money went, and I'm going to tell you that the most human beings are the ones who don't have enough for themselves. Sometimes they are ready and the last pair to separate to help someone for health, he says – for health should be given. Many who don't have mobile phones give their neighbors 200 dinars to pay for it. We owe them the truth and only the truth. The state authorities have to determine how this money is spent, whether it's RFZO... When I presented the fact, believe it or not, I was attacked by the Commissioner for Public Information, who attacked me for bringing out information that is of public importance. But this information is of public importance, and the people, I repeat, need to know. I don't like to be politicized about it, but given the cause of this disease here in the Assembly, it determines therapy. As a member of the RFZO Management Board, I need to read the following data. In 2010, it was treated, I'm talking about RFZO, not the Budget Fund, I'm saying this under full responsibility, as before, 40 children, in power were these loudmouths, 40 children were treated. In 2012, 45 children were treated, adults almost 300, 289. So, to one child, seven adults were treated, but only 45 children. At the end of 2013, I entered the RFO. In 2014, 120 children were treated, and 223 adults, so it's not 1:5, but 1:2. In 2015 on the cost of the RFO, I am not talking about the Budget Fund, which is being established, treated 306 children, and 179 adults, 306 children, seven times more than they are, and the relationship between adults and children was fat in favour of children. In 2016 563 children were treated, 110 adults, 5.5:1, quite the opposite, with 12 times as many children as in 2012 and 14 times more than in 2010. In 2017 600 children were treated. The state gave, if necessary, more, 2,187,613,084 dinars. Dear citizens, I've filed a report for you. This report goes to my soul if it's not true. You can check it out. And this conspirator, the trustee, can check it out. I hope this doesn't make him press charges again. You have the right to know where your money is going. Now, when it comes to determining whether some private foundations, God forbid, misused certain funds, I don't want to doubt in advance, I'd like to be the cleanest, but if the citizens were both human and paid 13,000, 14,000, out of 10,600, they need to be given full insight, because it seems that those who collected the money didn't do it for free, they were charging for it. Dear citizens, it's an injustice to heaven, you single out a little of your money, you set out a few euros, and every month you do it, and those who collect funds don't do it for free, they don't have to pay anything, they need to respect their work. You gave the money, and those who collect that money should do it for free. It's obvious they didn't. It seems that some percentages have appeared, and I don't want to doubt it, but the state authorities need to check it out. Finally, the owner of the casino turned up to borrow 15.5 million, at his own recognition of the foundation, which is why I can talk about it. According to the data we have, 10 were returned in 14 months, which means that in those 14 months it doesn't seem to be necessary, and I believe it is, I wish it wasn't necessary for sick children, but the citizens who gave the money had to be warned -- before your money came to sick children, he would turn around to make money with the casino owner, in a fund that I think is Slovenian. That was fair to tell the citizens. So, the opportunity to tell them honestly is missed, but the opportunity to do all the tests is still going on and some state bodies that gave 250,000 euros check and that money, but also the money that went text messages and in various other ways adapted. And so our famous athletes, who gave huge money that they made, made fair abroad, unlike some who made a fortune here on October 5th, millions, trucks, airplanes. They've earned that money with their feet, and they have the right to the truth, to see if it's spent fairly. Politicians can count on it, but let's just establish the truth because I was the victim of a lie, and that's why I insist, and that's why I won't say anything bad about the one who insulted my dead mother, the one who peed our graves. I'm not going to say anything wrong in terms of this foundation. I want her to be his cleanest, and she and the other, and to have full confidence in the citizens. And, let me tell you, all the requests that came to the RFO were granted, except for those that went to the Budget Fund. If someone doesn't apply, the RFO can't give the money, because he has to go at the request and find the doctor. That's what committees do, and the Management Board just approves of funds and we've always approved it with joy, wanting to help every child and anyone who needed help abroad. With that and the Ministry, we don't have a problem. The fund is independent. We've renovated a lot of contracts with homes abroad. Instead of a few of them, there were dozens of contracts and I'll tell you, the average treatment of patients abroad is 8,000 euros and everything is transparent. You can check it out. Everything is falsified, everything is subject to control. It seems that the treatment from these private foundations costs far more, but, again, I don't want to suspect that this has been misused, but it is the state authorities that have to establish the truth and restore trust in both the RFO and the Ministry and in the health system and those foundations that people have the right to establish, but of course they have to operate in accordance with the rules and everything has to be fair and transparent. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I want to protect the air before we see it. That's what it says on one traffic light. That's what I remembered. It's a very nice message. We need to examine, Minister, all the recycling and see the parameters in which they charge, i.e. to invoice you with a certain amount of recycled waste, to see if that powder is enough evidence, whether some Pancheva recyclers live very well and whether it's all transparent and fair. We didn't order them work, we give them subsidies, as we give them to farmers. We need to examine how these millionaires are peto-octobaric, who joined some of them there, and let's see how these millionaires allowed the construction of a lead-accumulator recycling plant on Indji's waterway with a synaptic canal above the water supply of tens of thousands of people, to see how many gentlemen who have had a lot of complaints here, how much conflict of interest he has because he worked in Bor, there's a series of these wastes, or what it's called, for the collection of secondary raw materials. We've got to check everything carefully, but we've got to check it out, too. They need to protect the environment and help us to keep what pollutes the environment from being income to them, but also to keep the state from being overexploited. Let's see with "Energo Green" for the processing of slaughterhouse waste. Why did these five-optochtobar millionaires put us in a position and the one now in Beta, who was ambassador to Belgium, testify against our country? Why did we come to the opportunity to conduct a 130m-euro dispute? Because they quickly built a factory for the processing of slaughterhouse waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44991	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44992	Thank you, Vice President. I never answer for a word after this man who just spoke and I don't think anything he's saying is worth any comment, but, in accordance with article 107, I ask you not to allow him some of the things that he's allowed himself in his speech. You may have missed it, but I think you can find out what he meant when he claimed he was a victim of some kind of persecution a year and a half ago. Please, we're all colleagues. You know what this is about or you can find out what it's about. Don't let him do such things because, regardless of our political differences, our political views, I think we should all be human. Just because some people show that they're not really able to be human from time to time, it's supposed to be their own private business, but please don't let them bring things like that up here in this room. Please, I believe you haven't been paying attention now, you haven't connected to what this is about. I think many colleagues know very well what this is about. Don't let things like that happen in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44993	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'll take a stenogram, and, of course, I'll take a closer look. By the way, I'm not really aware of what you've given me. You know for a fact that every MP has the right to think for himself whatever he wants, and that he's a victim of political persecution, and he's the best, and he's the smartest, and he's the best messenger, so we can't ban anyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexandra Jerkov: No. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44994	Article 107. Mr. Chairman, this is what we're going to vote on. The way Miss Jerkov spoke to me more about her than about me. (Alexandra Jerkov: I did not speak to you. She tried to be offensive. Whether it worked or not, let the viewers conclude it. If someone comes here in front of my bench, spits on me, curses an immobile mother, if someone from her MP group, and that's what Mr. Orlic will definitely confirm, with a few people going to the rooms to beat me up, am I a victim or am I not? Is my life worth less? If someone writes "bitango" on their official website, if they call you on the front pages of "bad" etc., am I a victim? If someone here keeps turning their backs, in the end, I said, the prime minister himself had to read what I wrote and determined that at the press conferences that it was not true, and here was a real haranga, even some of ours settled, so they fenced themselves from me. I was, in that sense, a political victim and it is my right to regard myself as a political sacrifice, as I said I hope that this information will not cause me to get hurt again and be declared unknowing. I think the following - may try to offend you all, but I find it difficult to insult you. For someone to insult me, it has to be better than me, but it's no worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44995	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. You said the National Assembly came forward in voting day, and then I don't need to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Orlic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44996	I won't take up much of your time, Mr. Chairman, since this apparition of the Rules of Procedure's injury has turned, you've decided to make certain statements. So, first of all, I'm not asking for this to be voted on, so the Assembly can make a statement about what I'm talking about right now, and I'm going to make a statement. First, I will confirm that it is absolutely true, it is quite true that the event Mr. Risticevic spoke of was an attempt to brutally attack him, to retaliate in an insidious way what he said or wrote. When they did, I'll confirm that he was insulted by the people who stood a foot away from him, and that they were talking about his mother what they were saying. And I'm going to confirm that there really was a search for him in these congregation offices, that people were looking for him. I'll confirm that it happened. (Alexandra Jerkov: You are a monster. And let me be whatever you say, I've never accused people of being treated, the people who voted for it adopted that solution. I never lied that people voted against it, the people who adopted it. I, as you say, am a monster, but I've listened to such accusations from those who now pass it on to me, yesterday, yesterday, isn't something from a year ago, it's not something you don't remember. That happened yesterday. Mr. Chairman, I wanted to tell you, this is not a question of the right of the MP to think of himself, because you said something like that, that something is or isn't, that it is a victim or not a victim, this is a matter of facts and relationships that we show in this room, both towards each other, ladies and gentlemen, and to the citizens who are all of what we do here, and these children, how we vote and how we behave, how much money we provide or not provide. But the message we're sending, if anyone can be told everything and if a man can be hated to those limits that he wants to be the worst in the world, and that his family is so brutally attacked... (Alexandra Jerkov: Family attack? )......................................................................................................... Then ask yourself what kind of atmosphere we're building. Then ask yourself what kind of atmosphere we're building. And the last line-- what do I mean when I'm talking about all this? I mean, for example. The law we talked about yesterday from January 2015 was voted by people sitting on this side. Those who speak of him yesterday and today have not even honored themselves in the O.R. to come. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44997	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Just because you mentioned the atmosphere, I call on the MPs to now, since we are at the end of the session, make an atmosphere that the minister can give his final word and bring down this tension. It's just, there's no need for this. We've been doing good these few days. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44998	Thanks, buddy. You've injured Article 109. I can understand that Mrs. Jerkov's microphone was not included, but it was impossible not to hear here in the hall that she spoke directly to Mr. Orlic, and also to all the MPs behind what Mr. Orlic commented – you are monsters. If you are able to go over such an insult, through a qualification given to MPs, I apologize, even at the cost of disrupting the course of the debate, even though some have come here on purpose to do so before the very end, I apologize, I am sorry, but I must insist that you apply the provision of Article 109, although it is not popular to ask when people are the opposite sex. This is never experienced in a good way, but what is said has a special weight and is indeed extremely more than offensive and humiliating for this home. I'm really asking you to respond to that, no matter what it was said in the microphone, but it was clearly heard in the O.R. I'm not asking you to vote on this, but I'm asking you to take appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u44999	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. You saw for yourself, and you could hear that I invited all the MPs to lower our tension and end this session in a way that is appropriate for the National Assembly, in an honorable and dignified way. I didn't hear what my colleague Jerkov said, so anyway, I don't expect it, I just didn't expect her to say it. Now it's too late to react to such things if it's the way it is, and there's no reason to doubt it. Let's move on. The Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45000	Mr. Risticevic said in that first address when he was talking about the data related to this fund, he called the actor, that I knew some information about it. Indeed, we know a lot of the data, but we support that the authorities seriously see what's going on in that fund, to see how it's possible that the funds that have been collected by SMS messages, someone can give some other fund, take some interest, what happens to these interest rates, etc. We certainly support it, because it's not good, especially when it comes to something like this that should really be one human action, to turn into an affair. And this has turned into an affair. I don't know why these peto-octobar pyromaniacs have been vampireizing so much these days that they attack on social networks anyone who dares, my God, so they think they're calling the authorities to deal with this fund by this Sergei Trifunovic, call the former actor. But they go so far as to say that Serbian radicals have sided with the advances, because God is attacking, and so are the advances of that fund. So, neither are we on anyone's side, we're an independent parliamentary group here, the strongest opposition party in parliament, and that's how we do it, that's how we act, and that's how we act. We have even seriously accused and asked to resolve the functions of Minister Zlatibor Loncar, which has given state money to that fund, which is completely insane. That's an additional reason why the authorities need to see seriously and what about the money that Zlatibor Lončar gave and what about the money that we've all been paying off with text messages. I don't think those who were so loud and sent one single message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45001	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Now he has the word Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45002	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, I would like to further highlight the importance of one decision that we are discussing today in the agenda, and this is a proposal for a decision to give consent to the decision on amendments to the financial plan of the FPZO for 2018. So this fund has defined some of the funds for treating patients who have been suffering from rare diseases and have only increased since 2012. In 2012, 130 million dinars and eight patients were assigned abroad for this purpose. In 2013, too, 130 million. In 2014, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/74 of 22 July 2015 on In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. 335 Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 In 2017, a billion and a hundred million. In 2018, two billion dinars intended for the treatment of patients suffering from rare diseases. This is a systemic solution to the Ministry of Health for this problem and this is a great opportunity for our patients because they have the opportunity to either travel abroad for treatment or to have a team of experts from abroad come to Serbia and provide the necessary medical assistance. What is important is that one team of doctors, a team of experts, a consilium that looks at the overall condition of the patient, decides in the best interests of the patient. In case the patient needs treatment abroad, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided two planes to send these patients to the doctor as soon as possible. Our patients have the opportunity to receive the best possible treatment on the cost of the state abroad, and in addition, within the Ministry of Health, a college centre is formed that will be available to parents who are diagnosed with poor diagnosis and serve as a help to get to the doctor, to collect the necessary documentation to access their children’s treatment as soon as possible. The Ministry of Health and this Government in various ways improve the state of our health system, first through the construction of new health centres, I mean the new Clinical Center, the magnificent Clinical Centre in Nis, but also the investment in facilities that already exist through the Office for Public Investment Management, but also with the renewal and modernisation of equipment and vehicles. Besides, we refer our doctors to specialization. I remind you that the previous regime has banned specialization and has practically put our country in a position to deal with the lack of doctors. However, we have corrected it, simply by passing laws, where we have adapted these conditions, so that as many doctors as possible have the opportunity to specialize and perfect themselves. We are now in a situation that has not yet been completed by some of the first specializations that doctors have been referred to, but unfortunately, because of the destructive policy, we have been in the process and we have reacted as quickly as possible, so that our patients have as good health care as possible. When it comes to the Fund, which has had a lot of controversy these days, about the "Longen Life" Fund, he is led by a man who has been accused by the ministry and this government of politics and propaganda. And he admitted, as we heard, it exists on the official website of this fund, that the funds that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia collected for the treatment of patients, for the treatment of our children, had been paid into some foreign investment fund. That's public money, that's the money that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia paid through SMS, but also the money that the Ministry of Health sent to this fund, that's the amount of 200 million dinars. It is also the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and must be spent in a transparent manner. This foundation has transferred 15.5 million dinars to a foreign investment fund and there is a reasonable doubt that there have been some abuses here and that should be questioned, of course. I'm not sure the citizens who paid this money for this clear purpose would agree to reinvest their money in this way. Making business on children's issues is really scandalous. The only thing he did before, when sending patients to treatment abroad, is that he directed his health minister to treatment abroad and not because he was suffering from a rare disease, but because he had no confidence in his own health system, so he sought help abroad for a routine operation. That's what the previous regime was doing. We really want to think in the best interests of our patients. Once again, I'm undermining that no one can abuse the money of a citizen, even if it's an actor. At the end of the debate and what is crucial, this whole debate is an indication that the opposition has no fundamental objection to the proposed laws. Once again, Minister, support for proposals on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45003	Thank you, colleague Turk. The word now has Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45004	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, because you are now a paradigm to me for all the chairmans of these few days, allow me to say in just a few sentences what I think is necessary, and that is that once again, by referring to several discussions of Members who have supported what we are proposing here, to thank for that and for what we have already said, that I think we are really beginning to understand how important the environment is, no matter how important they are, I would always say, equally important, but that I will never accept that environmental issues are less important than any other topic, and I have made enough arguments about it, but who needs arguments to do so. It seems hard to explain that it is white – white, or green – green, but anyway. This debate, at this stage, will still have the opportunity to discuss the amendments, however, shows that this is better understood and that in all political ideas, except perhaps by what exception, there is awareness that this is really important. The fact that this topic is sometimes being used daily, we're getting used to it somewhere, but my fight against it will never stop. I certainly think and I am convinced that this is so, even if I do not believe it, look at what is happening in countries that are developed Europe and developed democracies, where the theme of the environment has existed in a very positive way for more than 20, 30 years, and there this topic is not being abused for daily-political purposes. That is to say, our struggle cannot stop and that you will never be able to expect me to stop talking about it and stop completely knowingly trying to promote another kind of dialogue on these topics, and also on the topic of the environment. If you want, it's a civilization fluid, and for me, it's a matter of decency. If we're broadcasting something all these nine, ten years, doing the official and public work, it's an attempt to broadcast courtesy in this subject that we're pleading to be and should be the subject that is the consensus of all of us and more or less regardless of this kind of criticism, I subjectively draw the conclusion that it's possible and that we seem to have a fundamental consensus here about it actually we have. And thank you all for that, regardless of sometimes there are criticisms. But what's not allowed is personal blows and they're low blows. I still don't have to go, so I wouldn't go down a few steps lower, answer to some of those subjects of some people who have just left the gym, because coming back to the past is quite legitimate, but speaking the facts you're twisting, it's not good, so it's not even correct, but who's going to ask you again for correctness. As far as I'm concerned, my personal history or political history is known to the entire public. I knew our first entry into parliament would induce maybe a story about it. But the problem with that is that I am perfectly correct and that everything that can be put to the public's attention or talk about it is either judicial or otherwise completely legal and legitimate in this society is solved. And so much for that. It seems legitimate that someone is throwing you in this way, but on the other hand, it's not right and it's not polite to twist the facts. That's it. For those who need to be told or distracted, maybe Serbia should say that is enough. Let's be a little different. Let's try to get Serbia to show it a better, better face, not the face of the day-to-day policy that we're going to shoot at any cost and kick in the shoe. I'm not that address, I'm not doing it. I'm aware that by performing a public function, you're exposed to being attacked by humans. I'll just mention it like this sometimes, without mentioning any other details, because everyone has details we could talk about, but I won't do it. It's a matter of my decency, it's a question of our relationship to the subject. As for these of ours, I'd say, important topics, we've already told the law enough to do. It is necessary to adopt these amendments to the law for the sake of our people, because of these means to be withdrawn. It is also necessary to adopt these cooperation agreements, of course, and not to distort the need to co-operate within all possible entities, borders, etc. It is necessary to protect migratory species, without any dilemma, and it is certainly necessary to protect bats, for the reasons that we mentioned today, and there will be opportunities to fix it and to deal with the environment in this way. When it comes to other topics, dangerous waste that is open as a topic, as a paradigm of environmental protection, was aimed at raising the awareness of our citizens and was in no way intended for any campaign in which someone might have wanted to participate. I don't. My environmental campaign lasts while I'm alive and it has nothing to do with campaigns. The processes that have started, the things that we came up with as information from the D.A.'s Office, B.I.A., have been processed and these processes will produce results. You have one first-degree verdict, we're waiting for second-degree. I believe it will be almost the same. And for the first time in Serbia, you have the fact that this is being processed, when it comes to the environment and that crime against the environment is being punished. Now, that's gonna keep going, no matter what it looks like to someone, it might not be there. In order to process, it must be found. And when it is found that it is, then the system must react. So, that's the story of Panchev and the other regions and cities where we find or find or we have indications that we can find illegally buried waste. We will also deal with Pančev, certainly "Petrochemia" and all of our capacities, including Loznica, which we also talked about, which is very much necessary, to solve all these other historical issues. Here, when it comes to dangerous waste, that's where we talk about crime. It's something else. I assure you that any information you have will be welcome for us. We'll check and we'll deal with it and we won't let anyone out of it. There is a serious problem in Serbia, and we are trying to change some rules that are making it impossible for us to do so. I think we'll do it very quickly and create conditions to prevent that living one from destroying our environment. You'll see what I'm talking about. I have to touch animal waste as one of the most important topics in Serbia, because we have a very, very serious problem with environmental pollution when it comes to it. It's done, too, and on it. The state is waiting for some arbitration and similar moves to complete the processes, so we know what we're doing next. Anyway, the subject is more than important. And, finally, when you think about why all these attacks are happening on us and you see where the attacks are coming from, then you'll understand why that is. Many interests are related to what the Ministry of Environment does. We're in the way of a lot of illegal activities, or we're trying to do that, and there's interests that are huge, financial. No matter what, therefore, any criticism of this type or the greatest number of criticisms that come to us in this sense, negative, which I was talking about, because others are quite desirable, of course, is a criticism that you can interpret in this way. I have to disappoint them. We're going to do this convincingly. We won't give up on this at all, because this government, everyone who makes this government and the president who made it possible for us to push this story, sometimes on the muscles, is a story that is epic in Serbia, whatever anyone thinks about it. It was never about the environment in Serbia that we were working this way, noting that we were just continuing where others were already doing something. So nothing started from us, but with us and us, it got such a momentum that can no longer be stopped. We love our country and we will show that the environment is one of the most important engines that can use the environment as a engine for Serbia's development. Remember, 15 billion euros in investment lies in what we do. So, protect the environment, invest in jobs, for someone good, for someone not good, but for me it will certainly be good, as well as for our citizens. In the end, citizens will be the supreme judge of what this ministry is doing, and the entire government is doing, even though we've had that check multiple times, but it will repeat itself in a similar way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-05-0.u45005	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. We move on to a joint single search, a unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on proposals for decisions from the agenda under items 7 to 13 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157, paragraphs 2 and 2 are replaced by the following: 192nd and 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search under points 7 to 13. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint Single Search on the motions for decisions referred to in paragraphs 7 to 13 of the agenda. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda. I am opening a single search – Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. This way I would like to thank all the MPs for their participation in the work, to thank the minister and his team for their desire for dialogue and for their participation in the work and debate with the MPs. We continue our work on Tuesday, October 9th, 10:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend.
