ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44549	In 2015, March 13th, there was a tragedy in the rescue mission when a five-day rescue of a baby whose health was threatened past the subordination that a subsequent investigation of the Ministry of Defence was found, a helicopter with a crew consisting of Major Omer Melic, Captain Milovan Djukaric, Ensign Nebojsa Drajic, a flying mechanic, Ivan Miladanovic, Dr Dževad LJajic anesthesiologist, Miroslav Veseinovic, on the return of helicopters from the rescue mission and babies from the Ademovic family. Right after the tragedy, because tragedies happen everywhere, as well as accidents, and we can't possibly avoid them if we don't take good care of respect for procedures, protocols, security, whether it's work, military, police, emergency situations or any other situation in society. So, accidents happen everywhere, but in our case, nobody in any way is responsible for the accident is the worst of all, accidents are being defended by good intentions. Of this ethics of good intentions, there can only be evil in society and there may be both death and death in the future, and that is why this Survey Committee, composed of all representatives in the Assembly, should answer two missing questions from both investigations on two missing issues which also led the prosecution to say that there is no basis for criminal reporting. The two questions are from whom did the defence minister receive information that it is necessary to save a baby whose health is threatened? What channels and how did that information get to him? And, second question, who changed the flight plan of a rescue mission, or helicopter, on their return to Belgrade, so instead of Batajnica or VMA to land at "Nikola Tesla" Airport? In his procedures, the military disciplinary court punished Major General Ranko Zivik and Brigadier General Predrag Bandic by banning advances in the service. It's the only two responsibilities we've ever witnessed. My personal position is that these two generals didn't deserve that sentence, but they had the opportunity under the Law of the Army to refuse the oral order the Minister of Defense gave them. For three years, I have been proposing this committee of inquiry and I will propose it until further notice, as long as we do not understand that the committees of inquiry exist not because of personal responsibility, not because of persecution, not because of politics, there is a reason to justify responsibility in order to know in the future that accidents must be avoided, that the rule of law must be taken into account and that what is the competence in the public affairs that people choose us to do. That's the goal of every survey board, including the one I'm looking for your vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44550	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic suggested that the agenda be completed with a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. The word is Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44551	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at this session, as far as I can see, we have the Family Birds Act on the agenda and we have the Law on the Protection of Blind Mouse. I know these two laws will be passed and it's a good thing they're going to be adopted because I believe that every creature of God on this earth should be protected. However, I want to talk about another category of people who have lived among us and who have waited 27 years for the law to be passed where some of their rights will be recognised. All MPs received this bill last year, this bill, all the ministries. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as in the Ministry of Defence, the draft of this law went to the administration and the sector, seeking opinions on this law so that through the Government it would be delivered to me, as it was also delivered for the pension law. But until today, it just didn't happen. When a man is interested in this issue, and from the composition of Serbia's wartime military disabled, he asks what is wrong with the Delic law. But let me tell you right now, it's a mistake, it's not Delic's law, it's a law written by fighters. He's cynicalally in charge of the same ministry, he's missing 126 MPs. Gentlemen, there are 250 of us here. This law lacks 126 people. If the human side of these 250 MPs were to overcome the party, this law would have no problems. It provides for 20 rights for fighters. When the fighters wrote this bill, they took care of the possibilities of this country. If you have read, you have seen that 400,000 fighters a year, the costs under this law would be 6.5 billion dinars, and only this Assembly that has 250 MPs and another 200 or 300 employees costs almost that much. Here, in this same assembly, the minister promised us that the law would be passed and the draft came out on August 10th. That's the worst thing, gentlemen, that's written so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44552	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Go ahead. Say, you have a problem all the time. One problem. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v - no one, abstention – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Enis Imamovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a proposal for a declaration of honour to the non-Serbian citizens of the country's non-Serb nationality. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's poll committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential election to the day of publication of the provisional election results at 99.9% of polling stations. The MP's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – seven, against - one, abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the opening of the republic's elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions is available. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Srdjan Nogo suggested that the session agenda be complemented – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the elections for the Belgrade Assembly's committee, held on 4 March of this year, from the day of the call to the day of publication of the final results. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions is available. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the protection of Serbs in the dispersion and region. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44553	Dear People's MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Dveri Movement, submitted a year ago to place the Declaration on the Protection of Serbs in the region and dispersion as a point of the agenda. But today's politicians, instead of essentially policy-making, seem to be interested in Facebook politics, Internet politics, and that the issues of protecting Serbs in the region and dispersal are only relevant when some elections are held and the patriotic awareness of voters in Serbia should be raised in order to get as many votes as possible. However, I can say here that it has essentially been convened during the past two and a half years that no act has been brought into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that would improve the position of Serbs in the region and dissipation. I would ask the Serbian Government here – why is it waiting to form the diaspora Assembly? Does it take two and a half years to form a major body that would care for the rights and protection of our people outside Serbia? It should be noted that only outside Serbia lives four million Serbs, on whom no body exists, which is required by law to form with the establishment of the Assembly. Otherwise, it was abolished in 2012. The body does not exist, as does the Director of the Diaspora Directorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We insist here that with the state and rights of Serbs, through legal solutions to resolve their problem. We had the opportunity a few days ago to be guests of the Montenegrin Assembly and to get acquainted directly with the position of the Serb people in Montenegro, where the representatives of our people spoke of their extremely difficult position. Also soon, there is a law on religious communities in Montenegro, where there is the possibility that complete assets of the SPC should be alienated and handed over to the management of one sect, so that we insist that the Serbian Parliament is obliged through legal solutions to solve the problem of Serbs in the region and dissipation, rather than simply on some personal initiatives, based on some personal preventions, to correct their situation and to make a decision about it by people who run this country, rather than by correcting their situation through legal solutions, so I expect that in the coming period, the position of Serbs in the region will be corrected. The ruling coalition is now run by the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region with some new energy, so I hope that you will have the opportunity to solve specific problems in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44554	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify facts related to the privatisation of the spa, a source of drinking water and property of the PIO Fund. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44555	Serbia's Dvori Movement has proposed the establishment of a survey board to determine facts related to the privatisation of spas, a source of clean drinking water and property of the PIO Fund. The task of the survey committee to look at the facts and circumstances related to the regularity of the privatization of the spa, the source of clean drinking water and the property of the PIO Fund and determine the following – the circumstances of the decision on the privatisation of the spa, the source of clean drinking water, as well as the assets of the PIO Fund, the interest of the Republic of Serbia in the privatisation of the Banian complexes and the source of clean drinking water, when a working group was re-established to privatise and solve problems in the spas, which make up the working group's working group, how much funds were allocated to the work group's work group, how many sessions were held and which the conclusions were made on the working group to privatise and solve problems in the banks formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Since the PIO Fund is full of citizens of the Republic of Serbia payments to the fund, and citizens are nominal owners of the Fund in whose interest the ownership of the PIO Fund, Article 155, has been carried out. The Law on PIO, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia is mostly managing it, in line with the political interests of the parties in the government that the Fund abuses for pre-election campaigns, to bribe pensioners as their secure voters through the financial assistance they have given before the elections and the allocation of financial resources and the use of space without compensation by the parties that are in power and who have taken political control over them. It should be noted here that Serbia is one of the most prospective countries in terms of geothermal sources, that there are currently about 300 geothermal sources in Serbia that are not used properly. Serbia's citizens should also be told that the PIO Fund is not owned by the state and currently has 19 judicial rulings that have proved that the PIO Fund has been established by pensioners, that the state of Serbia has not invested in establishing and raising the spas in the past, and that the Republic of Serbia has no right to manage these banks and to continue its non-oliberal policy privatising the spas so as not to pass on to foreign investors and domestic tycoons who, unfortunately, have shown that the use of state property is being used, how state resources are used, what happens to workers who have worked in companies that have been used by tycoons today, by foreign investors. That is why we believe it is necessary to pass a new Law on the PIO Fund and that the PIO Fund must be used and managed by the Republic of Serbia's spas.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44556	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine facts, circumstances, responsibilities regarding the effect of subsidising foreign businesses in the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44557	The Serbian Movement Dvori has proposed the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the effect of subsidising foreign businesses on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The task of the polling committee is to look at the facts and circumstances relating to the effect of subsidisation of foreign enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to determine in this respect the total amount of funds granted, i.e. the total amount of funds paid to support foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2012 to 2018, the list of all enterprises, the amount they received and used for this type of incentives, the assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the business areas in which the users of these incentive funds work and function with regard to the development of these business branches and the effects on the GDP of the Republic of Serbia from the moment of their work to today, the analysis of the fulfillment and realization of the elements of the contracts on which foreign investors are committed to taking, applying for this type of funds given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the number of new employees in these enterprises, as well as an analysis of the qualification structure of new jobs of the newly employed parties, by the institutions and the institutions of the new institutions in the institutions, the institutions, the new ones in which are provided by the institutions. Unfortunately, over the past six years, this government has continued its neoliberal policy, which has been led before it, which is in no way different from the policy that led to the fact that we have so many unemployed in Serbia today, that we have a destroyed economy, that we have a destroyed industry, that we have destroyed agriculture, so I see no difference in the conduct of economic policy. We believe that this economic policy, which in this way, is devastating for the Republic of Serbia and for the people who live in it. Djabe Miladin Kovacevic, director of the Statistics Institute, who fings reports every time a report by international institutions says Serbia's poverty rate has increased, is now 24.6%. Only 10,000 people have been employed by foreign investors since they came to Serbia, and 73,000 people leave Serbia annually, mostly young people and 1/3 of them have a degree in college. Now we ask the question in whose interest is it that foreign investors are coming, in whose interest is it to receive huge subsidies from the Republic of Serbia if we lose 70,000 people who leave this country every year? That's why it's necessary to change economic policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44558	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a motion for a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44559	Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all those people who have ancestors in their families who have suffered during the NDH should know that this Assembly in the past two and a half years has done nothing to reveal to the public the deaths of the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people in the Second World War, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the only institution of the Serbian state that has done nothing since 1945, nor has it passed a legislative act to mark the death of Serbs in the NDH, that the Diaspora and Serbs in the region are still a year and a half ago in co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted a motion for a resolution on the death of Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II and that this motion for a resolution stands in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask the question here to the president of the state, the prime minister -- why not bring and put on the agenda of the Republika Srpska Assembly a resolution on the death of Serbs in NDH? Looks like we're the only country in the world that hasn't marked its casualties. It seems that we are the only state that does not prevent genocide from happening to us again, and there are so many media pumps, there are so many media statements in the media of people handling this country when it comes to the position of Serbs in Croatia. However, they did nothing with their finger to improve the position of Serbs in Croatia and that something would happen in the future, that the crime that happened to us in World War II would never happen again. I hope that people who are a serious factor in the SNS, who are originating in the territory of Croatia, will do that the declaration of the death of Serbs, Roma, Jews are adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that they will have opportunities in the future to tell their children – here we have done something during our term to remember people who died during World War II in NDH. To say it's a shame for the state of Serbia not to do this. The German Bundestag adopted a resolution on the death of Armenians during the First World War of Turkey, and we cannot adopt a declaration of the death of our people in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It should also be said that the UN Human Rights Committee also adopted a declaration of phenomena and condemned the phenomena of neo-fascism and neo-Nazim in Ukraine and that it is just another clagworth for our MPs, for our Assembly, to finally adopt a declaration of the death of Serbs, Roma and Jews in World War II and that this Assembly in this term of light...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44560	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44561	Thank you, Chairman. For my citizens' sake, I would like to repeat that I have suggested that this session discusses the adoption of a declaration on the protection of the family in Serbia. The family in Serbia is at risk at this point, because it seems that we are almost and are not a decent society because they are in the first place realising programmes and those who defend them. We have witnessed that our Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of Defense, is the most important thing to defend the programme. Family doesn't matter to anyone here, even if it's not a declaration. On the other hand, respected citizens of Serbia, our authority and those who decide on the agenda in the National Assembly decided that instead of family, we should talk about burning issues in the country, KIM, Gaza Stripes, bats and peasant birds. That is why I think it is ideal today to put it on the agenda, to talk about the family, about the situation of the family in Serbia, that at least declare that Serbia is a friend of the family. Family is our basic national resource. The natural family is also an economic community, a basic unit of economic development, sustainable development. If we don't have children who will be born into a natural family in which they will be brought up and raised, what else? It is known that the fertility rate in Serbia is 1.43, and for a simple reproduction we need 2.1. So, what do we do? We bring laws that only produce that make pregnant women and mothers unhappy with this city, and soon pensioners will join them, and they are the only ones who have permanent incomes and finance their grandchildren and school them and help their children. So the family is at risk. The state needs to contribute something. And my proposal is that at least, here, declaratively, accept that you help, because it is the only way for Serbia to provide itself with the future. Only if we provide healthy growth, people who are young, visionaries, educated, will they be able to save us from monsters... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44562	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of RTV, I assume Radio Television Vojvodina, but we will hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44563	You made a good guess, Chairman. It is Radio Television Vojvodina, a public service for all citizens of Serbia, of course, primarily those living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In fact, we are all already victims of the abuse of the media in Serbia, and when it comes to national frequencies, this matter is already very serious. We have proposed that a survey committee be established to determine whether a public service, which belongs to all citizens of Serbia, which is financed by their funds, abuses its position, favours the ruling party, why it acts as if all citizens of Serbia are members of the SNS as well. Public service must not be in the service of the regime, which is not even a regime of this people, which is alienated and unnatural. In the earlier period, we had a case that the ruling party had up to 13% of the programme dedicated to promoting the party, and now that percentage is even 36%. I'm afraid that actually these data are even mild, because actually SNS usurped everything, all the media space in Serbia, because you can't hear the word of the opposition anywhere, there are no public debates. So, they, the SNS, start from this high home and beyond in all public services and on the media, can say anything, without any evidence, that in the most frightening way they spread lies about their political opponents, which they are obviously very afraid of, because they will never go out on a TV duel, on a duel live and on a live exchange of views, because they are afraid. The Vojvodina Radio Television has been placed in the service of all of this, and what is most frightening is not responding either to REM or to the Ministry of Culture, no one reacts. Personally, I would be pleased, at least minimally, that in public services, when it comes to KiM, or the quasi state of Kosovo, I hear that the speaker has an obligation to say the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, the false state of Kosovo, or be fenced in any way, and do not participate in Vucic's high treason of KIM. So, public service... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44564	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Member of Parliament Marija Janjusevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation of Studies B. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44565	Thank you, Chairman. The problem with privatisation Study B is unresolved property relations, i.e. lagging debt and unresolved dispute with former shareholders Study B. Namely, the Workers' Council of Study B called all employees on 15 April 1991 to, of course, buy out internal shares and call 86 shareholders. By February 28, 1992, the price was fully paid, and shareholders gained the right to an annual dividend. But on February 15, 1996, the solution to buy-out shares was simply annulled and a new leadership was placed at the head of Studio B, and then the president of the Assembly was Nebojsa Covic. In a letter from the Management Board of Studio B, referred to by the new leadership, all shareholders, read: "The Management Board of the Radio-Diffusive Public Enterprise Studio B analysed the property relations created by the acquisition of founding rights by the city of Belgrade, and thus the total obligation of the founders to the established undertaking and shareholders who invested their own funds for the purchase of the capital of the former broadcasting company Studio B. The founding act of the public enterprise of the shareholders is protected and excluded from the total assets of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade." But what's happening in reality is one general abduction of social property, it happens that Studio B has been mutilated, kidnapped and turned into Alexander Vukic's personal service, and it's actually a shadow of the Pink Study. This mockery that seems to be with the media in Serbia can stop if we form a survey committee that will start to explore studio B's assets, to whom Studio B belongs, who abuses both law and justice and the law and the rights of citizens cancels out, so when we are still dealing with the quality of Studio B's programme and in whose purpose it is, we may finally start to release the most important media in Serbia, because it is known that our lies and our betrayals are best maintained through the media, and Studio B... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44566	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marija Janjušević proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the work of REM during the election campaigns 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44567	An electronic media regulator that should ensure that citizens can watch a quality programme in Serbia, the kind they deserve and what they still pay for. However, what has happened to REM since 2014 and beyond? This period somehow coincides with the time when Aleksandar Vukic keeps us in a state of emergency, in a state of choice, in a state of fear and in a state of fraud. Therefore, from 2014 onwards, REM declares itself incompetent for monitoring the programmes in the framework of political campaigns. As things continue, as Aleksandar Vukic puts his paw on the media, so does REM, although all those employed in REM receive salaries neatly. That is why it is necessary for someone to finally ask the question – what REM is doing, whether we need REM, whether that role should be taken over by the Ministry of Culture or by some other body to form, and REM is certainly long dead. We had a case where one of the REM advisers, who only appears when he is to defend Zeljko Mitrovica and a similar bullulment, said publicly that the only ban he will advocate is the ban on public speech to Serbian Movement President Dveri Bosko Obradovic. No one has responded to such a scandalous statement, and this arrogant behavior is simply escalating. It's just that someone has to start an investigation into REM, see what decisions have been made, whether they've been made, whether they've been supervised, specifically, by Pink, or maybe the CEO of REM is in a marriage relationship with someone who works on Pink. Where did you get this power from the Minister of Shadow Culture? You know exactly who I'm talking about. About the owner of the Pink, about the feather and the biggest guard and the TV Bastille Alexander Vukic. Zeljko Mitrovic is above the law in every sense, not only in terms of broadcasting and dirtying Serbia, but also in other crimes I mean. That's why I think REM is a place where we can start cleaning Serbia, cleaning up the media space and liberating the media space.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44568	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice" committed in Kosovo Mitrovica on 16 January 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does he want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of the donation to the Serbian Progressive Party for the 2017 presidential election campaign. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two Messengers, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on complementarity of the Law on the prevention of domestic violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. Parliament of Tatjana Macura has proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. LJupka Mihajlovska proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find the proposal not accepted. The National Parliament of Alexander Chabrai proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for four messengers, against none, self-abstained, none. I find the proposal not accepted. Representatives of Aleksandar Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivković proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. Alexander Chabrai isn't here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five messengers, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Radojcic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44569	Thank you. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected counterparts and colleagues, the Serbian Movement Dveri has proposed adopting a resolution on AP Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, starting with international public law and concrete international legal acts contained in the text of this resolution, and following the constitutional obligation arising from the constitutional preamble, and bearing in mind and constitutional standards on the integrity and indivisibility of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whose AP Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part, which I am currently stressing, under the mixed occupation of NATO, the European Union and illegal bodies in Pristina, which are well made up of terrorists, and bearing in mind and constitutional norm on the single legal order, we believe that it is high time for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this resolution and finally take a sovereign political position in the further struggle for the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and its preservation in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. This involves an absolute break-up with the current policy of gradual recognition of independence, so-called "independence". Kosovo, declared by the illegal authorities in Pristina, and through dialogue and intervention of the European Union in Brussels, because the implementation of these agreements has threatened the territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia in a brutal way. Namely, a series of written and oral agreements concluded in Brussels, and especially with their gradual implementation, the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been unconstitutionally amended. Therefore, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija must be returned to the relevant international frameworks - on the sole format of the United Nations, as well as constitutional frameworks, given that the written constitution is a presumption of the rule of law. Starting in 2000, a lack of will has been observed to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia on legitimate and legitimate legal grounds. All authorities have declared their support for KIM within Serbia, but no authority has until the end insisted on full implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. This was also done by European integration under the pressure of the same set of wrong moves by all who have exercised power, as European integration has one constant in the case of Serbia – the closer Serbia is to the European Union, that is, Kosovo and Metohija further away from Serbia. The proposed resolution and the positions taken are annulling the effects and consequences of the policy implemented by all authorities in the context of the cosmetic problem, starting in 2000. Here we propose a series of measures, such as the annulment of the agreement, the establishment of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44570	I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Employees of Dwri: It's not a radio system. I'll repeat the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Dr Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44571	Thank you, President. This proposal for a declaration of genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs is the best example that MPs, the vast majority of MPs, do not respect the will of citizens because over six thousand councilors in 136 municipalities and cities unanimously declared against imports, cultivation, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. Unfortunately, the same wording of a declaration to which only one member is added – that the National Assembly undertakes that, before amending and supplementing the existing GMO law or the adoption of a new GMO law, a referendum would be implemented on which Serbian citizens democratically declare whether they are not in favour or against GMOs. This is also a good example of thinking about whether to amend the electoral law, whether it is necessary to return the direct election of MPs by election units to choose and recall their MPs if they are not satisfied with their work, and not whether the party presidents decide instead who will be on the list and who will take a position on the list, whether there is a likelihood of being elected or one where there is no chance of being elected at all. In this way, we would practically return power to the people, the original meaning, and I propose that we declare this declaration of GMOs because recently, on 6 and 7 September, in Berlin, the 9th conference of European regions without genetically modified organisms in which we have received information from representatives of these regions that it is a very significant movement against GMOs in Europe, that 19 countries have declared themselves against GMOs, and that certain countries such as Austria, Germany and others seek to feed toned animals or animals for meat, milk and eggs produce soybeans based on GMOs and genetically modified corn. Austria has managed to do so in all sectors of livestock production, except in pig farming, and other countries are trying to do everything they can, and are particularly important successes in France and Switzerland, which have a far higher level of national responsibility for the situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44572	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miladin Ševarlić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Miladin Ševarlic: That proposal has been withdrawn, as far as I know. You didn't officially pull it. I'm closing the vote. The MP claims it's been withdrawn, you'll see it with the service, but I have to until I officially have it withdrawn, to go to the vote. For - five. So he didn't pass this proposal. National MP Miladin Ševarlić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44573	Thank you, President. With this proposal, we are asking for an amendment to the PIO Act on the composition of the Fund's Management Board. Since, under the current law, the Governing Board of the Fund is practically state-owned because the structure of seven members of the Management Board of the Fund is dominated by state representatives. We propose that the Governing Board of the Fund be increased to 15 members, and that five members be of the rights users, on a proposal from the representative associations of pensioners at the level of the Republic, that five members be of the insurance order, on a proposal from the representative trade unions, two members be of the order of the employers' representatives, one representative of the Union of employers, one representative of the Ministry of State Administration, one member appointed by the Ministry of Public Affairs of PIO, and one member of the Ministry of Finance's Office, and finally that one member be the representative of the largest representative trade union of employees in the Republic of PIO. In this way, the Management Board of the Fund would be responsible for the structure of the source of the income of the PIO Fund and would reflect in the best interest the views of these two groups, primarily insurance companies, which will be future pensioners and current beneficiaries of that fund, i.e. pensioners. Otherwise, we will come into a situation where the representatives of the state are making pensions for us, as is the case with the just adopted amendment and addition proposal for the Law on PIO, which was adopted at the last extraordinary session of this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44574	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities, in relation to the business of the company "Tenis" and by giving the lease of land to this company. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44575	Thank you, once again, President. So, we propose this proposal to form a polling committee whose aim will be to look at the facts and circumstances regarding the award of the tenis leases in Serbia. It's usually a company that doesn't grow pigs at all in the home country and doesn't have any acres of agricultural land on any basis of use. So we ask that the survey committee take a look at the content and text of the Memorandum signed in 2015 between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the company "Tenis". To see exactly who are the signatories of the Republic of Serbia, which is the carrier of the job defined by the Memorandum by the Republic of Serbia, and which of the company "Tenis"? What are the rights and obligations of the party signatories regarding the Memorandum? What law or laws of the Republic of Serbia define the business that is subject to this memorandum? Who, on the basis of which law and evaluations, approved the company "Tenis" to rent 2,420 hectares in the municipality of Zrenjanin? On the basis of what law, on the basis of which estimates and under what conditions should the company "Tenis" be approved to use another 7,000 hectares according to the announcements, which makes up about 9,500 hectares of agricultural land and will place the company practically into one of the largest agricultural land brokers, i.e. agricultural land users in the Republic of Serbia? Finally, who, on the basis of which law and land, has been granted the right to rent the "Tenis" company since 1 November 2018, given that our cattle farmers are struggling to provide enough land for the production of livestock, according to the law of the State Land Rental Championship? At the same time, other questions can be asked in this context, e.g. Agriculture Minister Nedimovic announced that farmers can use the land they have on the lease, which is set for giving to this investor by 1 November 2018. This has caused great controversy and dissatisfaction among domestic agricultural producers. Why are our farmers in a second-rate position compared to investors who have no experience in pig production and in the organisation of livestock production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44576	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the state of the public enterprise "Post of Serbia". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44577	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping God to help everyone. Serbia's Dveri Movement is in a series of survey committees that we wanted to determine the actual situation in various areas of our society, among other things selecting the JP "Post-Serbia" as an essential example of what a party's parasitic system looks like, and what one part of the ruling coalition in particular, the PUPS abuses public resources for its party interests. We are looking for the establishment of a survey committee that would firstly examine, and here are the citizens of Serbia, tell us whether it is normal, the fact why a public competition for the election of JP "Post-Serbia", which was announced more than a year and a half ago, on 10 March 2017, and under what conditions and whose decision Mira Petrovic of the PUPS is still in office. Even though it's against the law? So, that the PUPS has been prescribed by Alexander Vukic and SNS, is "Post" prescribed to Vukic as some private party property and whether Mira Petrovic can do whatever she wants with the "Post" whatever she wants, against the law and against public competitions and against any logic of this country? So, who is Mira Petrovic, who are Krkobics, who is PUPS as a false party of pensioners and why do they have the right to manage "Post" against the law? That's what some survey committee has to investigate here, otherwise there's no right or justice in this country. We, of course, also have a number of serious problems in the business of JP "Post-Serbia" so we demand to examine a six-million-euro copyright agreement with the United Media Group, to examine the contract with the company "Inex Plus", to see why the employees of "Post" were protested since October 2017 and why 47 employees of JP "Post-Serbia" were suspended in November 2017 and therefore the overall facts with the business of this public company. So, this polling committee would show how the party-parasitic system works, by which to be part of the ruling majority, to support a ruling regime, you have previously supported the former regime as a PUPS, you now support the current regime as a PUPS, so there's no matter which regime, which is a policy, which is ideology, it's important that you be part of the government and that it belongs to you a party cookie and then give you "Serb Mail" that you do there whatever you want against the law. It can't do that anymore. If you don't mind, vote for this polling committee, so we can figure out what's really going on in "Post of Serbia", not abuse of state resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44578	Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unpaid diaries for war veterans.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44579	Respected war veterans, respected families of all those killed in the 1991-1999 Liberation and Defence War, respected wartime disabled, disabled wars, after all these defence wars from 1991 to 1999, Serbia is unfortunately the only country from the former Yugoslavia that has not reached a system-based legal solution that would treat the problem of war veterans. It is amazing that 20 years after all these war acts, we cannot legally solve the problem of war veterans in Serbia. That is why we here propose, as a parliamentary group of the Serbian Dveri movement, the formation of a polling committee that would determine what the problem is that the state of Serbia cannot properly repay those who were in their time willing to give their lives for this country. What's the problem? Some people have even given their lives for this country. Some families lost their loved ones, some people remained disabled, and some people this country could not repay even with memory and memory of their wartime merits. Is it possible we can't pass one of those laws? Is it possible that we can't solve the payment of war logs from that time? So, how can war logs be paid in one part of Serbia, and war logs are not paid in another part of Serbia? What kind of discrimination against a certain population of war veterans who have not been paid war logs? When, therefore, will we legally resolve their status, and hence, of course, those privileges that follow them from the field of health and social protection where they are at risk at this time? What's most important is that we understand something, all the war veterans I've been talking to are mostly humiliated, not because they haven't been paid war logs, because they didn't fight for money, but because they were forgotten by the current government, because there's no one to come out and show respect for them, to say thank you, for defending the state today so that we could live in peace and in freedom, and then to remember them in some other way, and also in the area of social and health care, so when the state is able and in some kind of financial compensation and payment of these war logs. So here is the question of respect, so as not to repeat the parable of Laza Lazarevic, “All these people will be gilded, ” which is, in fact, talking about an inappropriate and humiliating relationship with those who were war veterans.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44580	Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding RTS work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44581	Thank you, Chairman. RTS, or Serbian Radio-Television, with Vojvodina Radio-Television, the most important public media service in Serbia is the media cancer of this society and state. That is why we propose to form a survey committee to determine what this RTS is doing in general, especially in the field of the information programme, which is more than scandalous. Allow the respected citizens of Serbia and fellow MPs to prove it to you on only one case. More than six months, seven or eight months since the end of Belgrade's city elections at public media service RTS, TV has not hosted, on any political show, any leader of the opposition in Serbia. Tell me in which democracy in the world for more than half a year no opposition leader can host on any political show on any national television, if we exclude private television, then especially on public media services, which, in fact, through subscription, are funded by all Serbian citizens? I remind public media services that the subscription for their funding is paid by citizens who vote for the opposition and citizens who are against these authorities and that they expect their political representatives to see it on public media service. They expect their parliamentary representatives here in the House of National Assembly to see in political shows at the public media service, but it has been gone for over half a year. What freedom of the media are we talking about then? What public media services are we talking about? What kind of RTS are we talking about? Bujosevic and Stefanovic, editors-in-chief, directors of RTS, are a disgrace and a disgrace to Serbian journalism. These are the worst servants and listeners of the ruling regime, who must not call on any political show a single leader of the opposition for more than half a year. What's it called? It's not media censorship and media darkness, it's a total media blockade to hear a different opinion in Serbia. That is why a survey committee is necessary to determine what the RTS is doing in the first place, and there must be a time when both Dragan Bujosevic and Nenad LJ will come. Stevanovic, responsible for what they are doing now, and this is the most monstrous media censorship of a different opinion in Serbia in the last 30 years since we restored the multiparty. The RTS has never been locked up like this for a different opinion and opposition, as it is at this point under the authority of the SNS. That's why it's time for all of us to raise our voice against RST together, like the Vucic TV Bastille and the second stop next to Pink... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44582	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Bosko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts relating to the beating of journalists on the day of the presidential oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44583	The Serbian Movement Dvori had an obligation to all journalists who had suffered beatings, harassment and persecution on the day of the presidential oath, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to propose the establishment of a polling committee to determine exactly what happened on May 31st 2017 and why there was an attack on journalists on the day of the presidential oath. Who are anonymous beatings who used to torture and interfere with the work of journalists? Are they the same legitimate? Have the appropriate applications been filed to the competent state authorities? Is there some hidden motive and is there an orderly for such treatment against the work of accredited journalists to monitor the passing of the presidential oath, Alexander Vukic? It is amazing that we have virtually no answer for more than a year – who are the SNS beatings, who appear on the day of the presidential oath, in local elections across Serbia, in Savala, at the top of the Kopalnik with illegal facilities and construction, so who is behind those beatings? I responsibly argue that the SNS are actually the leading criminals of Serbia and that in this sense it is not known, at this point, where the SNS ends and where the crime begins. Crime and SNS are mixed up, even and you can no longer easily determine, and that's why we need a parliamentary polling committee to determine who these criminals are in the ranks of SNS. Who is this wish? Who is this Zvonko Veselinović? Who are these people? Let's find out who's behind them and what world they belong to. Do they belong to the world of politics or belong to the world of crime? Let's see who these people are, watch out behind that are photos, videos, people who simply bring out journalists from the day of President Vukic's presidential oath outside the home of the National Assembly. So, what we're talking about, if that's how the presidential mandate of Alexander Vukic started, by beating up journalists, by beating up thugs who don't know whether they're from the ranks of criminals, the service of security or the party army of SNS, and that for a year we can't hear the truth about who these people are. Who has the right to bring in journalists, harass them, beat them up, so who's behind this SNS act? That's actually a key question, is SNS even a political or criminal mafia organization? This should be determined by this committee of inquiry and I call upon you to give a vote to determine together if you have nothing to hide, and if you have anything to hide, you will naturally vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44584	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44585	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the previous speaker, the penetrating cheek, vaccinated against shame, called on representatives of Bulgaria's "Attaka" and spoke to them friendlyly, likely to stand up to them as Gilas' servant when he comes to power, to give them parts of Serbia, parts of Serbia all the way to Vranja. That's what the Bulgarian Ataka wants. He's a hypocrite. I'll give you the next piece of information. During the government's election, he brutally attacked the prime minister saying he has two Masons in the government. All the time on his right as she is now sitting the master of the Great Women's Massage, Marija Janjusevic, third-degree master and the President of the Court of Honor of the Great Women's Lodge in Serbia. So I can also read, this Orthodox organization led by Marija Janjusevic at the temple of the Great Women's Massacre must have a stone, it must be that Boskov, he must have small blades, he must have skulls, black cloaks, a widow's bag. I believe that Bosko Obradovic is a hypocrite when he attacked the Masons, and next to him sits the master of the Great Women's Massacre in Serbia. Next, Bosko Obradovic took pictures here with Pernar. Here's a picture from here from the Assembly, and this same Pernar, in Vukovar, is painted with Ustashas, or patriots who seem to have been sworn in by Bosko Obradović himself, the court servant of Mr. Gilas. Namely, this same Bosko Pernar argues that Croatia has suffered a major Serb aggression in the form of JNA, this same Pernar claims that Serbia is responsible for the genocide in Vukovar and as Bosko Obradovic does not represent the state he did not have to meet with representatives of the Croats, but he had a good will to meet with Bosko Pernar who claims that we have committed genocide in Vukovar and that we have committed a major Serbian aggression. With this in mind, I ask that the polling committee be established and that these heroic works of Bosko Obradovica, the court servant Dragan Djilas, who in the June run in 2004, defends the Serbs from the pogroms and becomes the spokesman of the Chačan library, and this is the ultimate heroism of a couple of cabbages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44586	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bosko Obradovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the correctness of foreign vaccines. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44587	Dear fellow MPs, another polling committee proposed by the Serbian Movement of the Dvora parliamentary group, and I would not look back on these silly statements by Marijan Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44588	You can't say that an MP is stupid or that he's talking nonsense. I'll give you back your time, so you can explain your proposal, but to insult other MPs... (Bosko Obradovic: And he can insult? No, he wasn't offended. As you have explained the proposals for supplementing the agenda and have not responded, so other MPs can explain their additions to the agenda. It's not pleasant to hear about yourself or your political group, and you can imagine what it's like for others when you talk about criminals, murderers, and I don't know what, it's kind of kind of friendly and God-awful to hear, and when someone's saying something to explain their supplement, and it's talking about the Twors or you personally, then you get up full of anger. Is that okay with you? I don't know about that either, but I can see that you're reacting as if you don't understand what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44589	Thank you, Chairman. So what is the theme of the proposal for a polling committee proposed by the Serbian Dveri Movement, and it is of interest to a large number of Serbian citizens to determine the truth of the correctness of foreign vaccines on the market of the Republic of Serbia. On many occasions, I reacted to the authorities to understand the legitimate fears of a particular part of the parents who are very skeptical of the regularity of foreign vaccines coming to Serbia. For us here, a few questions are crucial and I'll be very specific. Where do foreign vaccines come from? What guarantees are their regularity and in what quantities have they been obtained from 2012 to today? Does the Institute for Virology of Vaccines and Serum Torlak exercise control and determine the correctness of vaccines by a foreign producer used for the mandatory immunisation of children under the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases? Is there a laboratory reference within the Institute for Virology of Vaccines and Serum Torlak, which examines samples of import vaccines for the immunisation of children? For what reasons does the Institute for Virology of Vaccines and Serum Torlak, whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not produce all vaccines intended for the immunisation of children, but rely mainly on imported vaccines from a foreign producer? And finally, what is the real danger of spreading infectious diseases against which children are vaccinated, given that the number of vaccines and the types of infectious diseases that these vaccines need to prevent is increasing year by year? So a very simple question is raised here, because the public is upset, the public is in some way divided for and against the vaccination of children and it is very important that a professional and responsible assembly survey committee delivers its opinion. As far as the Serbian Dvori movement is concerned, our position is very clear, we are not against the vaccination of children, it is one civilizational and health fluid that is absolutely in place, but we absolutely understand the legitimate fears of the work of parents who do not know what their children are inoculating when it comes to foreign vaccines. They ask a very justified question, where are domestic vaccines when we had Torlak who normally worked, when we had domestic vaccines, no one ever asked the question of mandatory vaccinations of children. What are the new vaccines that impose on our children now? Who are the producers from abroad of these vaccines? Is there a reference laboratory that checks their quality and correctness? These are, believe me, serious and responsible issues that this survey board could address and thus reduce anxiety, confusion, and public division in this sensitive and health security issue. So I think that we could all support the formation of this polling committee together and examine the correctness of foreign vaccines in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44590	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the non-intentional spending of funds allocated to the pre-election campaign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these non-purpose funds have been spent to buy Mr. Bosko Obradovic his seat at the court of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas, whom Jennifer Bras, an American emissary from the US Embassy, openly praised Gilas as a trusted co-worker in reducing Russia's influence in Serbia. With him, Bosko Obradovic had to make an alliance, as he made an alliance with his Orthodox organisation with Borko Stefanovic, a famous leftist, who asked there to delay the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija until Tadic's election. To rebuild the government of Tadic, Djilas and other teams needed funds, but Bosca Obradovic needed funds and they found them years ago. Here is Borko Stefanovic, therefore, near the burning cross just enough for our viewers to see what we are dealing with and who Bosko Obradović and the political party Dveri joined. I'd like that camera to zoom in. Apparently, this RTS that Bosko Obradovic is so named after the wives, including this man's wife, apparently does not want this to increase to see that Mr. Borko Stefanovic, a coalition partner, plays and sings next to the burning cross. Here you are, gentlemen, even if you can see for yourself. In order to reach such productive coalitions, therefore, Mr Bosko Obradovic and the political party Dveri received funds for the election campaign they were to spend in accordance with the law in the election campaign or to return the money to the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2017 unless it was spent. That didn't happen. The money was pumped through fictitious simulated business into entrepreneurship stores that were not in VAT, so it was tax evasion, on the entrepreneurial actions of candidates who were on the list in 2016, on the Dveri list or on the board. So, I can name the amounts, it's about the amount that's about 30 million dinars, and that's why I'm asking the authorities to check it out nicely, see if I'm right. So, let's say, for the electro-businesses, watch out, the party electro-businesses, in the 5,665,000 campaign, and then the famous Ciganovic family at three-four entrepreneurial stores from Borce nine million sixths and a few thousand to repair the computers, where those trains of these computers went, my God. Then the legal offices of 1,800,000, then we move on to various designs of the organization totaling 30 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44592	Time, time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, known as "Savamala", on 25 April 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44593	Well, who knows what time I'm talking here in this part of the session about the need to form a polling committee in the Serbian Assembly in order to get some answers about the events that took place, I repeat, on 24 April 2016. After two-and-a-half years, the only epilogue in Serbia took place was the probation for a police officer who was on duty at the police station that night, where there were numerous reports of citizens who were in fear of wearing a masked face, armed, bringing people in, tearing themselves down by baggers, which he did not inform that in the deal he had reached with the prosecution, he did not inform his superiors and took all the blame. This policeman, Mr. Goran Stamenkovic, has been punished for two years on probation, and after two and a half years here we have no answers in public who are the people who have destroyed Serbia's citizens' freedom under masks, and thus perhaps, I fear, we have opened the door for such things to happen in some other parts of Serbia. Here, last weekend some masked armed people deprived the freedoms of Serbian citizens and Minister Stefanovic called it precisely – by arrest. The state of Serbia has raised the military, police and full armed forces' battlepower and has done everything it has not done two and a half years ago when anti-rule took place in Savamalaj. I will remind, of course, that a few weeks after that event, the President of the Republic said that he knows who the complete idiots are, as he called them, who crashed them in Savamola, but we don't know if the prosecutor's office is acting, we don't even know what the prosecution is in charge anymore, because for these two and a half years we could follow the dance between the primary and the senior prosecutor's office about who's in charge of running the investigation, whether that's what the prosecution heard the president of the Republic who publicly said he had knowledge and that he knows who the people are. That's why we think it is necessary to form this survey board, and we will insist because I believe that unfortunately we will not get support for it at every next session when we have the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44594	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—six against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44595	Thank you. This law is when it was passed, it's almost three years old, we said it would endanger the economic position of employees. We talked about how it would lead to the departure of professional staff, that the solutions in it were detimulative and would contribute to party employment. One of the regrets was that this law did not cover the entire public sector, which is not covered by public enterprises, NBS, BIA and Public Media Service, which we propose to our proposed changes. After two and a half years of applying this law, unfortunately, we can realize that many of the things we talked about when this law was passed and later proposing changes and additions and happened. So today, the situation is that Serbia is the country with the highest percentage of the population at risk of poverty, more than 25% of Serbia's population is at risk of poverty, and the number of absolutely poor is also one of the highest in Europe, which is about 9%. The next result of this government policy is that Serbia is the country with the biggest difference in receiving the fifth poorest and fifths of the richest people. The average of Europe is 5.4 the ratio of receiving the poorest and the richest. In Serbia, this ratio is 1-9 with a tendency to continue to grow and it does not solve the problems of a huge number of citizens who are excluded from social life because of poverty, who struggle daily to provide their basic needs. Unfortunately, in Serbia, in a situation like this, talking about the fourth industrial revolution, about digitisation, is completely meaningless. And that this law, as adopted by the majority here, would contribute to party employment, could also be seen by citizens of Serbia at a meeting of the ruling SNS in Vranje, where a heated discussion was being held on the employment of whose Chevalians per public enterprise. And that discussion was documented, recorded, and became a public matter. I believe it's not the only board of the ruling party where these discussions are being held. And if we don't change something, I'm afraid that's the only thing that's going to be discussed in these organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44596	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44597	Thank you. The essence of this law, which we have been trying for three years to put on the agenda of the Assembly's session, is that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate of 10%, compared to 20%, as prescribed by law. We've probably talked dozens of times so far about it being a small measure of state concern and helping parents with small children. The answer we received on the proposal for this law and when we proposed this amendment as an amendment to the Tax on Extra Value Act is that there is no guarantee that tax cuts would lead to a reduction in retail prices, and that this measure is not crucial to helping families with small children. And, of course, we agree that it's not crucial, and that's what the Financial Support Act serves for the family with children, but it is one symbolic one, and it should show that the state believes in the market, that here we often hear that the market is what determines, that the price of products is determined in the competition, and that the state can't mix there much. Unfortunately, such a policy has led to, behold, now the anti-monopoly commission has established a cartel association of over 170 legal entities dealing with the sale of baby equipment in Serbia. And what can be heard here and there, that baby equipment in Serbia is 50% more expensive than in neighbouring countries, than in EU countries now, it seems to me, and the answer to why this is happening. I'm glad he's finally responding, and I'm afraid he's reacting too late, to react too late, too slow, and that the right way would be to adopt these laws and other active measures, as well as to change the Law on Financial Support for the family with children, which I'm going to talk about in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44598	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44599	Thank you. Since 2014, we have been waiting for the promise of then-Secret Minister Vulin to pass a new Law on financial support for the family with children. And we finally welcomed that law on the agenda here at the end of last year, unfortunately, in the budget package and the laws that follow the budget, and almost no single word was said then on the Financial Support Act of the Family with children, we have been as the SDS MP group, the People's Party, speaking in several sentences about the bad solutions that this law makes, in particular the way of calculating maternity leave fees, that the last 18 months of the day it goes to maternity leave, until the day it goes to maternity leave, and that in those months, if the woman was not employed, the income from zero dinars is calculated, and the total of 18 months is divided by 18 months. Unfortunately, the ruling majority did not react at the time, nor did the public react, and, behold, as of July 1st, when the law was passed, many women, who in the meantime gave birth and who received a settlement on the leave for maternity leave of only a few thousand dinars. The situation also led to a protest by mothers in Belgrade last week, protesting in front of the government. We have offered a solution as a proposal for a new Financial Support Act for the family with children. The bill has been in the assembly procedure since February of this year. The proposal corrects the situation and does not allow births during the absence after delivery to receive a shameful compensation. So, according to our bill, it defines a minimum fee that cannot be less than half of the minimum payers paid in the Republic of Serbia in the current year. It also changes the maximum amount of compensation, which is now reduced to three average earnings. This bill also defines the parental supplement in a different way compared to what was adopted, defines a way to achieve a child's supplement in such a way that a large number of children receive the child's supplement as one of the key measures to strengthen the family, which should be the role of this law, and it, as adopted by the Government, or this Assembly, was not until a year ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44600	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44601	Thank you, Chairman. The bill on culture has also been in the process for a long time. And the essence of this law is that cultural workers who receive awards in international world and European competitions are given national pensions as it was done with top athletes. It is the Law on Culture, which applies in the Republic of Serbia, left to be done if it is deemed necessary by the Ministry of Culture, as the ministry proposes, and the government eventually adopts. We think that this is a bad and bad relationship with cultural workers and that they deserve that if their creation is assessed by the highest marks on the international stage and thus raises Serbia's reputation, they are provided by the Republic of Serbia and have certain material security. Of course, adoption, the opening of a discussion of the Law on Culture would certainly lead to a debate on the state of culture. The state of culture today records positive, but unfortunately, some negative things. Positive, of course, is the opening of the Museum of Contemporary Art earlier this year, and this summer is open, after a long period, and the National Museum of Serbia and it is certainly good news and a commendable fact for the government. But the bad news is what we could watch, that is, to follow the previous days, is how censorship is reintroduced in Serbia, that the Serbian Film Centre, for reasons completely inappropriate in the 21st century, is being reintroduced into the rooms of the Serbian Film Centre and requires the abolition of the financing of a specific art project, which has already been approved for more than a year. Then, the board of directors, i.e. it magically happens overnight, agreedly, an agreement to give up the financing of the film project by the Serbian Film Centre. These are things that are absolutely inadmissible in the 21st century. I think it is necessary for the Law on Culture to be put on the agenda of the Assembly, in this part that we propose, but also in other parts that would take a broader view of the state of culture in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44602	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Excise Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44603	Thank you. And this law, for a long time, we've been proposing for two years. The essence of this law is to introduce excise duty on fruit juices with added sugar and other sweetening products and other non-alcoholic beverages, except fruit and vegetable juices. This is one measure proposed by the World Health Organization as part of the fight against obesity. That Serbia also faces the problem of obesity is spoken from time to time, the government has even adopted a Regulation on a national programme to prevent obesity in children and adults. However, this Regulation does not contain concrete measures such as this excise duty we propose. The excise duty exists in many countries – Ireland, Norway, Mexico, Hungary, since 2011, where the adoption of such a measure has led to a reduction of these types of drinks by more than 20% after several years. I have a title here that says that every third child in Serbia is overweight. Those referred to know the dangers of child obesity, and what health problems can bring about in the future. Unfortunately, once we had it adopted as an amendment to the adoption of the Excise Act, the minister said there was nothing against this amendment, but a few weeks later he was an honorary guest at the Koka Kole business celebration, as one of the companies whose products would certainly be hit by such a law, and somewhere after that, it seems to me that he lost that enthusiasm that the state of Serbia would actively engage in the fight against obesity. The introduction of such an excise duty would create the possibility of some, I think, three to four billion dinars in a budget that could provide a healthy meal in schools for each student in the Republic of Serbia, would create an opportunity to organise programmes and education that would explain to children and their parents the harmfulness of poor, unhealthy, fast food. I believe that over a few years, as in some other countries that have done this thing, it would turn trend and start to reduce the number of obesity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44604	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44605	Thank you. This is a brief text, a brief law and it proposes a very small change in the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is that the tax solution will show an amount which is more or less paid tax, i.e. a secondary tax, as well as a lesson on the rights of this position. A large number of Serbian citizens today who, for example, are pacifying property taxes do not know in what state their tax debt is, whether or not they have paid more, given that they never, with a solution they receive each year, get a state of mind about the amount that exists for their name in the tax administration. It's just amazing to me that the government has rejected one such proposal, that it doesn't feel necessary to adopt it, explaining in which way and what happens if it's prepaid. The point of this law is that a citizen as a taxpayer is informed of whether there is a tax debt or whether he may have subscribed his tax liability to pay less. Citizens when they get a tax settlement, and for some reason every year they're late, they're only informed about how much they should pay in the current year, but if they're a few days late, they can go down to minus, if they ever subscribe, they don't know how much it takes to pay... I was personally a few days ago to correct the tax settlement, since the tax administration, of course, was wrong and sent it to the wrong address, but I accidentally got it, and there I realized there was some debt of 50 dinars, because it was not clear, because it was late with the delivery of the tax solution, and the interest was finely charged from the period when it was written, even though it was delivered to me a few months later. I believe that at the time of this great story of digitisation, it is no problem for citizens to enter the amount of debt, i.e. the amount paid, over the tax solutions they receive each year for the property tax. That's the essence of this law. I expect this assembly, as a special law or as an amendment, when we have this law in the procedure, to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44606	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44607	Thank you. And for more than two and a half years, we put this law on the agenda with the idea that the amount of the subscription is not paid by every number of electricity in households that have more numbers, but that only one number is paid. The existence of this problem and the illogicality it produces have also been suggested by some MPs of the ruling coalition through parliamentary issues, but unfortunately there was no government response, there was no majority response to put the proposal on the agenda. Today, we have a situation where households that have several electric numbers on the garage, in extra rooms, in stables and the like, besides the electric house counter, pay the amount of subscription for each of these numbers. The particular question is – what do citizens get for that subscription they pay? A short time ago, one of my opposition colleagues spoke about how public media service organizes an information programme and information-political emissions, which are still very few on public service channels, that in these shows, since the election for the Belgrade City Assembly that took place in March of this year, there was no hosting of any single party leader of the opposition. I remind ad this tax, as the law says, is paid by all Serbian citizens, and some pay a few times. Such things are certainly not in line with the declared European policy, Serbia's obligations on the European path to ensure media freedom and are directly in line with the public service that was established, it seems to me, in 2006, when a tax was introduced, which I remind you, this authority announced would abolish, and then two and a half years after coming to power, it would have been done in order to return only six months later and re-charged in exactly the same way through the electricity bill, but this time without being able to free yourself from multiple payments if you had more electricity bills in your name. I call upon you to put this law on the agenda and adopt this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44608	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a bill establishing tax on undeclared citizens' income. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44609	This law should finally help, at the very end of the line, the ruling majority to fulfill one of their promises, which is that a law on the origin of property will be passed and that all property illegally acquired from those who did so will be taken away. It's been seven years since the coming to power of this coalition and there is no law. We have proposed this law which is not directly referred to as a law which the ruling majority has committed to bring, but a law establishing taxes on undeclared citizens' income. The essence of this law is that all citizens who have an asset greater than 30 million dinars are obliged to report it and that the tax administration is then bound, although today there is this possibility, but unfortunately it does not benefit, by adopting this law it would be obliged to verify the origin of the property of those persons. Furthermore, this law implies that all officials in the last 18 years who have performed any function shall be bound by any obligation, regardless of the value of the assets they have to apply and, regardless of the value of the property, carry out a verification of origin. If there was such a law, and if he had adopted it, then we wouldn't be able to listen to Minister Vulin who says that 200 thousand euros for the purchase of an apartment were given to him by an aunt, because there is no such possibility under our laws, or it would have to give evidence that the aunt from Canada had come and brought up to 10,000 euros every time, as much as possible under our law, so when the 200 thousand were collected, he bought the apartment. This best shows the hypocrites of this government and their relationship that when caught flagrantly in stealing, in manipulation, they provide such rude answers, answers that insult morale, the intelligence of every Serbian citizen. This law, I repeat, applies to all officials in the last 18 years. This law provides for a progressive rate of taxation of property found to be of no origin of 20, 40 and 60%, respectively. This law should deprive those assets of all yellow but also thieves of other colors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44610	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted on 140 MPs from a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Road Safety, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Đuriši, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 May 2018. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44611	Thank you. The Transport Safety Act adopted by the Assembly in March of this year has brought about changes that should have increased traffic safety, which have imposed stricter driving penalties, stricter non-believing penalties, more severe speeding penalties, but unfortunately, this law was again in a package of many laws and could not be discussed until the end, but has brought about one change, which unfortunately endangers the safety of traffic participants, first of all, on foot. Namely, this law abolished a five-metre safety zone from pedestrian crossings that did not allow parking and adoption of this change for which I, I must be honest, at that time and did not realize, but I was drawn to the quick reaction of the authorities in Belgrade, who announced that by adopting this change, it would be possible to draw up a new 300 parking space in Belgrade and I was amazed that we were prepared as a country, as a society to endanger the lives of participants in traffic for 300 parking places. I ask the question – what is the price of the safety of human life, and what is the price of a parking space? Will our children on their way to school be safer now that this five-metre zone has been lifted from the pedestrian crossing, will the drivers have enough time to dock if they don't see someone at the pedestrian crossing because it's blocked by a parked car? The worst thing about it is that no matter how much this law does not allow parking right before the pedestrian crossing, today the picture of a walking crossing in front of a police station on Vrakar 100 meters from the primary school where the police car is illegally parked next to the pedestrian crossing opposite the law. That picture can be seen by any citizen who passes this police station every day. I ask the question here to our fellow MPs – are we going to do something or are we going to be horrified tomorrow when an accident occurs, when at a crossing like this or a similar walkway because someone has parked improperly or properly now that these changes have been adopted, someone gets hurt or God forbid he loses his life?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44612	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 141 MPs out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Boris Tadic, this man is warmly attached to Djorđa Vukadinovic. Don't ask me where his left hand is. So my survey board is not because Tadic is the father of corruption, aunt to all corrupt politicians, the parent of all corrupt politicians from local to other. To him it was power, and to Gilas, money and sweetness. So, the father of all corruption affairs at Gilas who has 100 million earned euros, but wonders, only while he was in power and earning money. He is the father of corruption and Vuk Jeremic, who sees miracles, has a 1m-euro living space. He's the father and aunt and parent of all corruption affairs, but my survey board is, above all, due to high treason. Namely, the US Embassy's 17 December deputy, DS official, President Tadic, has insisted that the United States delay Kosovo's declaration of independence until the end of Tadic's re-election to ensure democratic victory and maintain Serbia's path to European integration. Borislav Stefanovic, the one playing next to the burned cross, the then main Serbian negotiator on Kosovo, who is close to President Tadic, said this is the US Embassy's debut, that the president's re-election is critical for achieving the DS goal, establishing a strong link between the US and Serbia. In this sense, Stefanovic persistently asked the United States on behalf of Tadic as a beacon of freedom to delay Kosovo's recognition until the end of the presidential runoff. The delay in Kosovo's declaration would allow Tadic to avoid defeat. Stefanovic proved that Tadic is the most pro-Western leader in the region and that Tadic's re-election would be crucial and strategical for Serbia, etc. That is what happened, on February 15th, Boris Tadic took an oath, and on February 17th, Albanians who waited, on the advice of the United States, declared independence. I think this is about an act of high treason and that he sold the country for the chair and that the survey board has to determine those facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44614	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, 133 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Please, co-worker Komic and Marijana Risticevic, if they can allow us to continue the session. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 24 October 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44615	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here we are, as an opposition, showing that we are ready to vote for those proposals proposed by our colleagues, so we voted briefly for Mr Ristic's proposal to put the polling committee on the agenda on what was going on in Kosovo, where Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic were also responsible, but let's see what happened with the responsibility of Aleksandr Vukic, Mark Djuric and all the governments present, but unfortunately you can't talk about it in the plural. It's easier for you to spit through the media and tell lies, like your manner we've been looking at for six years. So I urge you to adopt at least one of the 160 bill proposals proposed by my colleagues, here for years already here, concerning the lives of citizens, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You won't, because you don't hear the bells, and when you don't hear the bells, you don't vote. So you are no representative of the people, but delegates of your political parties who serve here as ficuses to support what you get a warrant from your bosses, not your citizens. As far as the law I propose is concerned, it's also one of the things that paints your policy, which is how you take away money and Serbia's citizens, as well as local self-government, and you put it all in the government register. So, you've devastated local self-government for the past six years of your reign, you're taking money, you've cut their money by law. Then you spend your money on which masts, fountains, gondolas, investments such as friendly investments with Arabs, such as "Belgrade No Water" or maybe 10,000 oranics you gave them in Vojvodina. On the other hand, in cities such as Vranja, Leskovac, Nis, Trstenik, sand-sanded streets, street lighting is shut down at 12 o'clock in most local self-government in Serbia, but that's why in Belgrade we have a New Year's light in September. As the land of the Arabs bows down, our men and our warriors in Vojvodina cannot reach that country, and of course that's the policy we're fighting. If you want to show that you want to run a policy for the benefit of the citizens, we invite you to put this bill on the agenda, to return to the cities and municipalities in Serbia with the law defined by the means they had before the scandalous law that you adopted in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44616	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 141 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 13 October 2016. Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44617	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another one in a series of laws that we wanted to encourage the growth of the economy in Serbia, to propose a reduction in the income tax, unfortunately, you do not want to put this bill on the agenda because it is not in the spirit of your policy. Your policy is not to give anything to the citizens of Serbia, but only to be taken from them. So you are not prepared here to give up any charges, taxes, taxes, taxes you charge to the citizens of Serbia, but that's all you increase from day to day. That's why we can't even have growth in the economy, so we can't have a better state standard, so Serbian citizens have the lowest average wages in the region, which is why the minimum profit is the lowest in Europe. That is why we are at the beginning of Europe after GDP growth. In five years, the average growth is 1% during your reign. It's 5.25% cumulative. This is proof of your economic policy. And because you don't have the ear for the laws we're proposing, that's the result of the situation we're living in today. You owe the state 10 billion euros and every citizen of Serbia during your reign, and you talk about some surpluses in the budget talking about some kind of GDP growth, telling fairy tales to the citizens, as you drag your hand into their pocket every day. The most expensive fuel is paid by Serbian citizens in the region, you take money from pensioners, you take soldiers from doctors, you take educators, you take from farmers, and the whole economic policy is directed at how to skin with the back of Serbian citizens. The problem is that you have nothing left to take from that wallet, because in these six years you have destitute the citizens of Serbia. So I invite you to put this bill on the agenda because of all this I said, to discuss whether the time has come to reduce the income tax rate of the citizens you are charging. It's easy to run the economic policy that you represent, just take from the citizens, put into the state register, and then spend in vain on projects that are exclusively aimed at propaganda and promoting voting regimes. So I urge you once again to put this bill on the agenda, and to cross the arguments whether it should be adopted or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44618	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, no one, the abstentioned, voted 139 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the two laws concerning the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government that I have been proposing for two years and the larger paradox is that I propose a law that goes hand in hand to the ruling structures and regimes in this country, but you and I will not accept it, because no one has told you that it should be found on the agenda. So, it's about the functioning of local self-government, it's about the functioning of local communities in the Republic of Serbia, but it's obviously not about your attention, because it's more appropriate for you to live in a centralized state, that we have one decision-makers and life-and-death masters in this country, that he wants to introduce himself, the man who's making the rain and all of you who serve here to second for everything he tells you that you need to do. So I suggested that local communities in local self-government ensure that part of the property tax goes directly to them, that they can finance projects that they decide are their priorities, that we give them independence in work, and that you include citizens to deal with politics at these lowest levels today, or to deal with things that concern their everyday life. Unfortunately, you have carried out an incredible dictatorial, financial centralization, you have collected all the money in the central register, and then, like Santa, you share those who are similar to you, and you discipline all those who are not ready to obey you at some point. There's no development, there's no state, there's no institutions. In such a society and such a system, everything is destroyed. And you want to set up such a nakarad system, and that's why you don't want to put these laws on the agenda, or draft laws, and that's why we can talk about them. Although in Serbia today, in the largest number of cities and municipalities in Serbia, as well as in the local communities themselves, you are currently exercising power from the Serbian Progressive Party and perhaps somewhere your coalition partners, but simply not to transfer power to the citizens of Serbia, it is the essence of your rule that all power is concentrated with you, or in the hands of one man. That's why you devast in the state and society and institutions of the system, and that's something that will leave terrible consequences for Serbia after your rule, after the moment it is no longer, at the request of the citizens, you could destroy this state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44620	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 138, of the 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44621	Thank you. This is a very interesting subject for me. It is about a bill to facilitate the business of legal persons in Serbia, to reduce their profit tax rate. All of your governments, since 2012, have sworn that the Serbian economy will be based on a domestic economy, on a domestic entrepreneur, but, of course, actions and words do not match. Our domestic entrepreneurs and businessmen serve you only when you need to send them inspections, when you need to recalibrate them, to charge them fines, to fill budgets in a variety of ways, and when the state needs to enable them and create conditions for business, to expand their activities, to employ new people, e, there is no attention and support for the state. This is how all those laws that one of your ministers, Sertic, announced in the Year of Entrepreneurship, 2016, will facilitate the functioning of domestic businessmen. In parallel, you from the half-empty budget treat foreigners, so for the last three years alone, 2014-2017, you donated 240m euros to foreign companies that come to Serbia to hire our citizens as cable braiders. Some of these companies have received 3m euros and have zero employees. And then you say you don't have money for farmers, you don't have money for pensioners, you don't have money for maternity and for mothers, but, of course, you have money for these foreigners who aim only at taking pictures with them when you open up some factories where our workers will work for 200 or 250 euros. Because of such economic policy and such a relationship with domestic economy, Serbia is now at the start of all economic parameters in Europe -- and if it is GDP growth, and if it is the average profit, and if it is the minimum profit. So, the complete collapse of the system. Today you can boast that in five years of your reign you managed to raise a gross social product by 5.25%, something over 1% a year, dear friends. And just so you know, in the period 2001-2012, which you keep attacking, 46% was raised by a gross social product or a 5.9% average year. When I listen to fairy tales and stories about the development of domestic economy, I'll remind you of one more thing - that you have 35,000 blocked domestic companies because they are unable to operate in this environment and you have billions of dinars that you owe them for the VAT refund, because you don't give them what's coming to them, so you can say you have a surplus in the budget and that in Serbia today everything... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44622	Time, please. Now we're going to vote on your proposal. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I realize it's not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44623	Thank you. I filed a request for the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process you conducted. Well, I expect that sometimes the MPs of the government will vote for any of our 160 proposals that we propose. As far as the media is concerned, after your implementation of a set of media laws in Serbia, we almost have no serious media today, almost a complete media system has been destroyed, and all with one single goal, that those who are media, those who are in the service of government, each day should manipulate Serbian citizens, lead them astray about some prosperity and flourishing in the Republic of Serbia. What's also part of that media propaganda folklore is these reality programs that are supposed to compete with the reality that we watch every day by the President of the Republic, and you've turned the whole country into reality. That is why you should not be surprised when, in these realities of yours, which the prime minister supports, the Minister of Culture and Information condemns. Someone laughs yesterday and tells jokes at the expense of the tragically injured Milice Rakic. It is your Serbia and it is your support that you give to Pinka, because you would rather give up the works of Serbia's territory, which is Kosovo and Metohija, than give up Pinka, Zeljko Mitrovica and reality. In these same realitys, some participants bring guns and the question is the moment when someone will get hurt. These are the social moral values represented by this authority. As far as RTS policy is concerned, it is also the answer that RTS management owes to the citizens of this country, to those citizens who pay each month for the operation of the RTS. They do not pay for RTS to be owned by SNS and these authorities, but pay because they have the right under the Constitution to provide objective information and timely information. They have the right to hear what is happening in this home and what is happening and what are the activities of opposition politicians in this country. But unfortunately, all the funds you give the media are designed to discipline these media, and that is why in all the competitions that are farce money they get "Pink", "Informer", "Alo" and many other local ones you bought, you've destroyed privatized, except for a few of them, and they only serve to lie to citizens and attack political opponents, to call them traitors, to call them people who don't want good to this country, and the truth is different. It is not you who love Serbia more than anyone who is not in the SNS or any other party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44624	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44625	I suggested that the Law on Local Self-Government be complemented in order to allow cities and municipalities in Serbia to be able to scholarship the best students and the best students in their environments. So this is just a compliance with the student and student standard. The Minister of Education has promised me several times that the Government will accept this proposal and will give its proposal in fact to amend this law, but, unfortunately, here I have been proposing this for two and a half years and there is no reaction in practice to everything just in words. This law should stimulate and help those of our young people who need to stay here in Serbia to be even better and help their parents to be able to finance their education more easily, because it is not the goal and should not be the goal of any country to educate young people, and that they go around the world afterwards and work in some other countries and develop their countries and their economies. Unfortunately, what I'm saying is obviously not in line with the way you see Serbia's leadership and you don't care that tens of thousands of people leave Serbia every year. There won't be anyone left in Serbia for a year, there won't be anyone left to work. The main ideology, which you have imposed in Serbia, is how it is best to leave Serbia, in which the country is the easiest to go and manage, where workers from Serbia are best paid. The workers of all professions are leaving. There will be no doctor to treat Serbian citizens in a few years. Intellectual potential is as mild as gold, as is oil, and it must not be wasted in vain by dear friends in power, but it is necessary to find ways to stimulate people to stay and live in their country, but it prevents you from building a gondola in Belgrade for which you will give 15m euros, to give Tommy Nikolic for his Office for Co-operation with China 50 million dinars, but the Youth Fund and some of these things are not a priority to you, especially when we are talking about stimulating birth in Serbia. When asked by the minister, he said, "Well, if we introduced a third child's fee, it would bring down the country's economic stability." So much for how contradictory your policy is. When you answer that we have a full register, that we have some surplus in the budget, when it comes to helping the people, helping the citizens to cope, then there's no money for them. But you're very skilled at manipulating statistical data and you're talking fairy tales about some unemployment rate of 10, 11%, some kind of growth, some jobs, and by all economic parameters we're at the beginning, and that's what you can't say...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44626	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44627	From agriculture in Serbia, for those who do not know, today lives between one million and two million people and they operate 630,000 agricultural holdings as many as we have in Serbia today. Agriculture for those who do not know half of it affects the growth or the decline of that GDP that you are boasting about these days, but just don't see and realize that agriculture could deliver better results and that farmers could live better in Serbia, you have to give something, not to reduce giving for farmers and people living in Serbia every year. Dear friends, I will read to remind you because I do not believe that you know what you said in 2012 when you came to power, the economic and political definition is that agriculture should be a strategic economic branch, the agrarian budget will be significantly increased and its height should be at least 5% of the total budget in 2012 with a minimum increase of 1% in each year. It's in the SNS program, in your white book. We are today in 2018, and the agricultural budget is not even at the level of this 5% in 2012 when you came to power, but is 4% and it is 44 billion in the 2018 budget. So, like all others, you deceive farmers and what's the only result you've achieved in agriculture is that you've reduced all subsidies and incentives, and that's why we're asking this bill to, if you already say you have a surplus in your budget and a full cash register, so give a little to the farmers, give a little to the fruit farmers who can't put an end to this year, because you've managed to put Russia's political and market at risk because there are no institutions that will be able to do their job responsibly, but every shipment of goods comes to problems on the Russian market. Of course, that's why the villages are devastated, which is why Serbia doesn't process about 700 and 800 hectares of working ores, but that's why you have money to help Arabs, to give the PKK to a company with a starting role of 100 dinars, and we don't know what it is or what it is, but it bought 17,000 hectares of land and the entire PKB company located in Belgrade, so tennis is someone you want to help because you can take pictures there. You're not interested in an ordinary man, you're not interested in a peasant who lives and needs to feed his family from agriculture. Of course, President Vukic best paints the government's attitude towards agriculture. He based his strategy on pig heads and hooves. So, they'll develop agriculture by selling Serbian farmers...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44628	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten of them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy on the stock companies from the "First Five-year-old Trstenik" system.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44629	This survey committee, which I have proposed, concerns the first five-year-olds from Triestenik and the facts and circumstances under which the factory was pushed into bankruptcy in January 2016, shows in fact all aspects of government and crime in this country or government and mafia. If you think what I'm saying is not true, I urge you to vote for this polling committee and prove that I am wrong about everything I say, as we voted for the proposal of the polling committee, Mr. Risticevic. I urge you to vote for this and prove me wrong or stop saying something you have no arguments for. The company was pushed into bankruptcy without conditions, the only condition was to promise and trick workers into taking severances, to all apply voluntarily for a social programme, and then hire them into a new company that will continue to work. It's true, she continued to work on a newly established company only that the company was founded by people who were SNS officials. She is now working as a private company, using contracts held by "Petoletka" which, until the bankruptcy was introduced, exported 70% of everything she did, had over 3,500 employees, and the contracts were taken over by a private company, and then under very suspicious circumstances in connection with the Agency for Licensing of Banks, with bankruptcy managers bought all those supplies of material, finished products, semi-products from the old "Petolets" in bankruptcy and reselling it to companies. That's how you see and how you develop and how you reform Serbia's economy by putting everything in your pockets. I invite you to prove that this isn't true. Just because you want to lie to me and some other people who are just giving facts, prove that they're not, vote for this committee of inquiry. Also, the bankruptcy manager at one point approved a newly founded company that had not had a month of bankruptcy claims of 170 million dinars, from a factory that was shut down before this one was opened. Please, well, where is it? What country does he have that in? Answer those questions. Either you replace a bankruptcy judge, or you punish him, or you see what the consequences are. I call on the D.A. to deal with these cases where you have millions, tens of millions of euros and billions of malpractice, various corruption issues, and not to terrorise your political insolents, and then to pay Serbia's citizens again with their budget money for all those processes that fall before the court. Some of these, which my colleagues are likely to mention now, have fallen to both appeals and on all other levels. So you're just taking money in every place from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44630	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic proposed a supplement -- a bill on the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. MPs Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. MPs Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević proposed a supplement – Proposal for a law amending the laws on agricultural land. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one. No proposal accepted. MPs Dejan Šulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević proposed a supplement to the point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – no one. This proposal was not accepted. National MPs Dejan Šulkić, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević proposed a supplement to the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. This proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Vuk Jeremic, better known as the Wolf – descendant, Wolf of the Lady Pig, Wolf of the Lucky Winner 200,000 euros from the Qatar Embassy, just by getting money from the Qatar Embassy, and Qatar is suspected of sponsoring terrorist organisations, this was meant to point to some of his actions that he was doing. If they find out about the lady's pig, I think they'll ask him to put those 200,000 euros back. Vuk Jeremic actively participated in the construction of the wild state of Kosovo and Metohija and thus humiliated and humiliated Serbia and helped make our position on Kosovo and Metohija more difficult. He, along with Boris Tadic, his former professor, whose adviser had been since childhood, which was defences, which telecommunications, etc., they changed the UN resolution together, threw China and Russia out of the process that was being conducted on Kosovo and Metohija. So, they replaced the United Nations with the European Union, introduced Federika Mogerina into the process, and today they are the loudest in the monk Sava Janjic, the loudest in the alleged defence of Kosovo and Metohija, that is, the survival of our southern province in Serbia. So they replaced the resolution, with the intention of ousting Russia and China and making Serbia's position in the international community more difficult. Also, they sought, reciprocating the favor of the Americans who delayed their declaration of Kosovo independence, so that Boris Tadic would be elected, they sought the opinion of the International Court of Justice, wanting to legitimise and legalise Kosovo's independence, and that certainly happened, they are the most responsible for what Kosovo and Metohija almost had state status today, because they wanted it to be. In doing so, Vuk Jeremic spent enormous amounts of money, spending three and a half million euros on flights alone. On one flight alone, he spent 70,000 euros, only the monthly allowance had 25,000 euros. So they've been spending a lot of money and funding so-called money. "consalting agencies" in the US, paying them over 2m euros, and in fact campaigning for Vuk Jeremic's career. Ladies and gentlemen, we who support the government need to know the saying of Dostoyevsky, says – If you go down the road and stop that every dog that barks, you will never get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44632	Thank you. Time. We're putting your motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Jovan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two seconds ago, I found out by looking to the left hand side that right now, and there you are, well, we're gonna finish this vote and there's another point. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. I'm sorry you weren't, MP. Here is another proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – the bill on amendments and additions to the Law, has all been recorded, I asked the MP if he wanted to, did not want to, was not in the hall, the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Elections. Do you want a word now? (Jovan Jovanovic: Yes. ) Here, sign in, insert the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44633	Thank you. I was thinking, anyway, all the three laws I've proposed, since they're interlinked to speak together and save time. Six months ago, we first proposed this package of interrelated laws, aimed at increasing the personalisation of policy, i.e. increased responsibility of elected representatives, in this case, of local self-government towards citizens. We are very pleased that public debate on this important issue has been intensified over the past six months, as well as that the public's demands to amend the electoral laws have increased. We therefore support the activities of the organisations gathered around the initiative, which I choose across Serbia, which advocate to amend electoral legislation in line with the principles set out above. The applicable laws give too much power to the political parties in the run-off and election of the president of municipalities and mayors, because they are not directly but indirectly chosen, following the elections as a result of political agreements within municipalities, or cities, rather than in line with voters' wishes. The direct election of the president of municipalities and mayors would increase their responsibility to citizens, i.e. encourage greater concern for their needs and interests. This kind of election would reduce the independence of the president of municipalities and mayors from the tops of political parties and organisations, which are run by existing laws and indirectly elected by committees in municipalities and cities. The introduction of the principles of increasing the responsibility of elected representatives to citizens is also supported by elections for the National Assembly. That is why we are either in favour of introducing a mixed electoral system, proportionate to the majority, or a proportionate system with the possibility of a preferential vote. With such a system, the schedule of elected MPs on certain lists depends not on the order on those lists, but on the number of votes citizens would give for individual candidates. That's what I'd say. and someone the party summit would put last on the list could enter parliament if citizens recognize that it represents their interests and gets more votes than party colleagues who are in front of him on or on the list. The election law could also ensure that all parts of Serbia are presented in the Assembly, which unfortunately is not the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44634	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44635	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, according to the European Commission's assessment, the deadline for meeting water obligations is 2041. To implement all the measures necessary to lead to a seductive relationship in water, and to meet this deadline, eight billion euros is needed. The devastating indicator of our non-domestic relationship to water is the floods and the results of the 2014 floods, when the director of "Serbia" Mr. Puzovic told us that only God can help us, because water, like all other natural resources, is not protected. So we don't have monitoring in this area, there's no possibility of realising quality projects in the area of drinking and waste water. So they're just looking at themselves as a slave to get as much use as possible as possible in the shortest time. You see, these goals of sustainable development, what we have had the opportunity to gain, do not predict that the goal of sustainable development is to remain in power as long as possible. The objective of sustainable development is to implement such a way to protect all natural resources from all aspects of life so that it does not leave lasting consequences on them and does not endanger the lives of generations to come. In these objectives, it does not say anywhere, when it comes to water, that it is necessary to destroy the rivers of the Old Mountain, that it is necessary to destroy the rivers of the Kopalnik, of all national parks. On the contrary, it says that you need very consistent and very quality to take care of them. But that's not the case. So, they're destroying the Old Mountain Rivers. They were already destroyed in “The National Park of Kopalnik” Josianica and Samokovka. The Petrovac rivers on the Mlava are being destroyed. The rivers within Golia are being destroyed, and even with Prohor Pcinjski, we have a small hydropower plant, and our energy minister, here's a big title for "the story of green energy". This green energy in order to truly be green, it has to compete with these sustainable development goals that we've all got as a read and that for the result we have a quality state in the water economy, and for that we need an adequate budget, not these minor resources that we've even been unable to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44636	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44637	Thank you. I would much rather have been able to propose a law on protecting citizens from bad laws, because one of these laws on environmental protection, as well as all natural resources when it comes to natural resources, as well as citizens of Serbia. However, in order to respect the conditions necessary from the environmental budget, which is 15 billion euros according to the European Commission, and of that, I said for a little while, eight billion in the area of water, it cannot be 0.4%. So it must be as in EU countries 30%, in our case even more must be, because we have brought the situation in the environment to such an extent that it cannot be worse. However, in order to really achieve this, we need about 300m euros per year from budgets and funds. Half of it is paid from access funds, half of it from the budget. Unfortunately, we don't have this situation, so we can't talk about environmental protection at all until we have a serious relationship with finance. Looks like the Treasury is ignoring the Ministry of Environment. It seems that the European Integration Ministry is self-declaratingly doing its job in this area. Mostly, professional staff, and there are experts from the ministries, come quite unsatisfactory with these meetings in Brussels because we offer them always and always the same and nothing concrete from all of it. In fact, you can't just sign water protocols, you can't sign health protocols, you can't sign landscape conventions without everything being included in our legislation. I prayed last time, and this time I'm asking to take care of natural resources as my grandfather's. So they're not supposed to be destroyed, they're supposed to improve. They should not be sold, which we already do, because the goal in this country is only in Serbia to sell the country. So, grab any land. If you get the land, you've got the natural resources. What kind of environmental protection, what kind of "inspire" directive, brought at EU level, should we discuss when we cannot protect or want our grandfather? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44638	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44639	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here we are entering the third year as I propose, and the SNS and the ruling coalition do not want to support us discussing how corruption should be prevented in this country. It does not occur to you to talk about it by reducing corruption in Serbia. We propose that integrity plans be introduced into political parties. Why political parties? Because Serbian citizens believe political parties are the source of corruption. Political parties think political parties and politicians are deep in corruption and are right. Why won't you change that? How do you want to fight corruption when you won't pass a law that prevents corruption? What wasn't Miskovic convicted? Why did you say he was guilty and not convicted? No one has been convicted of corruption in this country, and a law that can prevent that from being passed by you. You won't because this integrity plan needs to ensure that the party knows what possible places of corruption are and that a plan is made to prevent it. You won't because you don't understand that the law can't and the law doesn't need to be played. Seventeen thousand people paid 40,000 dinars for a SNS donation in the campaign. Who are those 17,000 people? Socially endangered cases, among other things. The man who was a donor is the man who is today the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. You've stepped on the Anti-Corruption Agency. She has nothing left to do. You put a man who's a donor of the SNS, who was in front of the SNS in the elections, in the Agency to control the financing of political parties and election campaigns. Well, how's he gonna control the SNS when he's one of those guys who was giving money? You admitted that a man wants to give more than 40,000 dinars, but he doesn't want his name to appear in the paper, and then he wants to make a donation to fake donors and fake 17000. This can be prevented by the integrity plan, but you don't want it to be so that we don't have a transparent funding so that we don't make decisions in the parties in accordance with the law. Party officials are born, born in these political parties, and there they need to learn ethics, not to come into office in the state and then steal as they stole from political parties. Let's discuss it. Why are you afraid of discussing the need to prevent political parties from stealing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44640	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44641	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, particularly Members of the ruling majority, who have the power to allow us to discuss something in this House, otherwise, parliament serves to talk between the authorities and the opposition. You've been keeping your mouth shut all day. So 160 laws have been proposed by opposition parties, and you're not going to talk about any of them, 65 committees of inquiry, and you're not going to talk about one thing. Why don't you shut up? Let's agree to discuss what kind of property tax is in this country? In 2013, you raised the property tax to someone 200%, to someone 300%, in one day. You also took 15% of your pensions in one day, 20% of your pensions, 25% of your pensions, or someone's salary cut by 10%. As you seem to need and how it is done to you, you take it from him. By this law we suggest that you cannot increase the tax as you need money, but in accordance with some rules, that it be predictable. Do you really think it's a luxury if a four-member family lives in an 80-square apartment? It's a luxury, and it's supposed to pay 1,000 euros a year in taxes on it. What do they pay for it? From what do Serbian citizens pay property tax? No, you want them to sell apartments. Who do they sell apartments to? To those who have money today. Who are those who have earned the last six years of money? They're the ones who have an aunt, so their aunt gives them money to buy apartments. There's not enough of those aunts. These people can't even sell apartments, and they can't pay property taxes. You raised your property tax in Belgrade before the last elections, so you said -- we're not going to do it, we're going to wait for the elections to pass. Now citizens can only imagine what will happen in 2019. You can go 100%, you can get 200 percent, you can get 300 percent, you can get as much as you want. How can the citizens of this country be protected from SNS and the state? Not at all. You've passed a law according to this same model, which says that the government, now not even the Assembly, but the government can reduce or increase pensions as it pleases. So the citizens of this country can't know what's going to happen tomorrow. Will he have pensions? And you don't care at all. You don't care, you talk on the phone, you chat with each other. You are not interested in discussing the misery and torture of the people living in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44642	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find the proposal not accepted. Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- the draft law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44643	President, what's the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44644	The one I read.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44645	Well, the one you've read, I'm giving up on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44646	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44647	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think that all citizens are also aware that there is an agreement in society, a consensus that the electoral system is no good, that the electoral law must be changed, that we have 250 MPs here, and that more than 50 municipalities do not have MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there is no one from these municipalities to protect the interests of these citizens or to say what these citizens are plagued by. Election law sucks. You don't want to talk about fixing the electoral law. You don't want to talk not only about changing the electoral system, but you don't want to talk about changing what allows you to steal from the election in election laws. Why won't you? So you can steal from the election. How do you steal? By being in RIK, and we propose this law to change it, SNS and coalition partners have a majority. Well, you can't have most of the electoral commission and talk about how it's going to be fair elections. We all witnessed in the previous parliamentary elections, it was broadcast via television, how votes will be counted in RIK and how sacks will be opened. You opened up the sacks of those you wanted, the ones you didn't want, and you didn't open. You've opened up what suits you, what doesn't suit you, you haven't opened. Well, election results must be determined at the polling post, not in the Commission where the SNS has a majority, so it reads the results as it pleases. For three days, Serbia is waiting to see who made what result, who got how many votes. Everywhere in the world, that result is known two hours after the election. You don't want to change it, you don't want to steal it. And when you were caught stealing, as you were caught in the previous elections, in a sack at the polling post in Leška, where Goran Bogdanovic of the SDS voted, 60 votes were with a rounded SDS. And you think that's funny, because they were found in an SNS envelope. How can you not be ashamed? How can you be counting on the fact that one vote was stolen, not one vote, but 60 in one polling spot? There are eight thousand polling stations. So, how many thousand votes did you steal? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44648	Ambassador, you've begun to communicate with the MP's group, not to explain your proposal. (Nenad Konstantinovic: I explain the proposal to prevent the theft of votes. Not only do you communicate, but you insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44649	Thank you. So to prevent the theft of votes, votes must be counted at the polls. At the polls, all participating in the elections must have members of the election committees. You have brought instructions on the conduct of the elections, where you are in one part of Serbia's territory... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44650	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44651	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since you do not want to discuss the change of the electoral system, we have proposed another version of the Law on the selection of MPs, where we have incorporated all the recommendations made by the OSCE into this text of the law. He gave his recommendations to the OSCE and said that you in the election were stealing, that this theft could be prevented in certain ways and all these proposals were contained in the law. So, at the polls, everyone has to have a member of the election board. It cannot be on Kosovo's territory that there are no members of the opposition election committees. You've brought such an instruction. There's no real complaint on that manual. You can do it. You have a majority in RIK with coalition partners, but there is no right to appeal to that decision about the Manual and the OSCE tells you what kind of legal remedy there must be. You made it up not to count votes at the polling station, but to have sacks driving to another place, so somewhere else, there's someone counting, so it's counting in Vranj, or it's counting in Raska, or it's counting in the King, what's being voted in hundreds of other polling stations. You did all this to steal the election. The election is being held before the voting day, with one candidate in the previous presidential elections having 92% of the media participation, and all of them together 8%. This bill changes that. All must be represented evenly in the election campaign. There must be debates on television with national frequencies. The opposition has no money for the campaign, you spend more than 10m euros on the campaign every year. Each year the elections, each year SNS 10.20m euros spent on the campaign. Only SNS has money, and then you have 99% of all commercials, and all the others together are 1% of the commercials. It's a thing that can be changed by this law, and we propose such a change. You used black limos and state money to go to campaigns. Gentlemen, you can't do that. You can't go to a black limo in a campaign, but you can go to a party car or a private car for a campaign. No Serbian citizens will fund your political campaign, your party's political campaign. It's abuse. So, you steal the election before election day, and on election day, the pressures that the OSCE has been telling you, the pressures on government employees, you make them vote for the SNS... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44652	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but since 29 September 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, and the non-intentional spending of funds. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, former Citizens' Protector or Protector of Citizens, called Prague, an additional member of the Democratic Party, received their candidate in the elections from the British Embassy, along with Shabic, £80,000, which means 100,000 euros and from that moment on, the two are becoming politicians. Mr. Jankovic, and the previous speaker also accused the ruling coalition of stealing from the elections. For the sake of citizens, the elections are conducted according to the regulations passed by the Democratic Party and all those parties created by the Democratic Party. The party financing law has been passed by the Democratic Party and these parties created by that yellow hook, those tiny yellow chicks. So they passed the Law on the financing of political parties and political activities. They're not responding to it today, and they're accusing someone of stealing. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's touching when Sasa Jankovic and the Democratic Party gentlemen and the yellow hips that have produced many more parties talk about corruption. Boris Tadic fled when he took the Democratic Party into debt of not knowing how many million euros, and Dragan Djilas bought the Democratic Party, because by taking the debt he turned the Democratic Party into a pendant. They talk about corruption and the country's progress, so they can't get their own party out of fools. I can't. For four years, their party has been in a blockade. They took millions, trucks, planes. There was no greater corruption on the globe than when they ruled. They didn't even deprive their party, they talk about honesty and corruption. Global financial integrity, an international organisation, estimated that they stole and stole 51 billion just by 2010. They're talking about apartments, so I don't have a 329-square apartment, or Mr. Martinovic. That's a Sutanovac. That was the president of your yellow bitches or whatever they call it. We don't have flats in Vienna of 160 square meters, it has Jesic. We don't have a 100-square apartment. That's what Mr. Ciric has. We don't have a million-euro villa, Mr. Jeremic has it. Don't insult our common sense and talk corruption. I believe you understand her best. You're corrupt. Here, this little descendant took 50 million on this Fund and sat down to that Juliani to answer for it. He took the money to cut the grass in February, 50 million dinars. You don't talk about corruption. You don't talk about corruption. You don't talk about corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44654	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances and to look into the situation currently in which the project "Belgrade on Water" is located. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44655	Thank you, Madam President. The need for a survey committee to establish facts and to look at the situation in which "Belgrade on Water" is under way is under way. Namely, about 10 days ago, two workers, two young men fell from a height of 60 meters and, of course, lost their lives. The labour inspection didn't enter this facility, we don't know why. The Minister of Social Affairs here said that the company told everything, and the company's labour inspection trusts the word. So, did we come to the fact that really "Belgrade on Water" is extra territorial in Serbia, Belgrade and that our, our Serbian labour inspection cannot enter to record the situation and see what it was about. Since 2015, since April, when a Lex specialise which "Belgrade on Water" was adopted made a Republic project, which marked "Belgrade on Water" as a project of special national, or republican importance, although I do not know why it would be of particular importance because it is only residential buildings and shopping malls, no mines, airports or any special industry, we still do not know who the investor is, which the business bank guarantees successful implementation of the project. No one has seen the feasibility study, as well as the overall project, and it should be available to the public, given that it is a project of special national importance. The professional public who has been against the project since the very beginning is against the project today. What are the consequences? The consequences are not only that half part of Belgrade, Savamala, and that there is a man who has subsequently lost his life, after being in the hospital, has been moved to the railway station, the train station has moved to Topcider or I don't know where they're not all small stations, threatened and destroyed by the bridge, the Hotel "Bristol", which is protected by the Cultural Monuments in Serbia and from that same hotel have been evicted, violently, by families of military persons who have found their new home... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44656	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Slavisa Ristic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and non-Albanian populations in the north of Kosovo and Metohija from 2013 to today. Slavisa Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44657	I would like to thank the President. We can, unfortunately, talk for hours, unfortunately we don't have that kind of time. There are numerous examples of violence, numerous crimes committed during this period, from murders, through beatings and intimidation of citizens, by burning cars, throwing bombs and explosive devices, through intimidation of citizens in elections, by breaking ballot boxes, etc., etc. Unfortunately, it all ended in tragic, or not end, but culminated in the tragic murder of Oliver Ivanovic. I mean, first of all, I have to point out that it is necessary to form this committee in order, first of all, to establish the role of so-called. The Serb lists around most of this violence, violence, and above all about the intimidation of citizens and numerous examples of political opponents, political non-insects of SNS and so on. Serbian lists. We remember well which satanization took place by the Serbian list ahead of so-called. Kosovo elections against Oliver Ivanovic. I don't want to, I don't have any proof that I'm bringing it into a relationship, but in any case, a target has been placed against a man. The latest example where so-called. The Serbian list crawled me personally and the Serb movement from KIM "Country" that we allegedly blamed, that we brought Hashim Thaci to northern Kosovo. So it's really an unspeakable attack. I don't want to trade with these people on this occasion, I don't want to mix with people who have replaced their Serbian citizenship with the citizenship of the Republic of Kosovo, I don't want to mix with people who are on the payroll of Hashim Thaci, with people who took part in the separatist elections and then become ministers, MPs in so-called "I don't want to do this." Independent Kosovo, with people who only two days after the president of the Republic visited KIM, went for a bow to Hashim Thaci and probably agreed there to raid Hashim Thaci in the north of KIM. Finally, while I was in power, while I was somehow responsible for politics in that part of the North KiM, along with members of the "country" that are being satanicized here, Hashim Thaci could only see Zubin Potok and Lake Gazivod on TV screens, and about the incursion with terrorists, with ROSU units could only dream. So that's why I think we need to form this committee of inquiry, which, above all, would determine the responsibility and role of this organization and the KIM Office and President Alexander Vukic's cabinet, because I am absolutely certain that these people are not writing it, but that it is written by someone else in their name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44658	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the statements by Sande Raskovic Ivić on Srebrenica and Storm. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last statement by Sanda Raskovic Ivić was – touch me everywhere, but don't touch me. She's here, and that refers to the attempt to remove a wild object, it seems to me, in Vrbas, Mr. Becic, when the police and the authorities tried to remove some object belonging to the Wolf's descendant. Then her party friend appeared and, as some young people say, stabbed the police, physically resisted, and this speaks of the way they built it. Also, she is a fellow of the same Bora Novakovic who prevented the person from performing his duties by beating him and I don't know how that man was more at large, who was building in Novi Sad, and how he built it knows both the police and the prosecution. The court of their party is a little loose, but I believe the time will come when the court will begin to work, that they are almost gone and no longer need to return favors. That's how the People's Party's Parole came up - touch me everywhere, but don't touch me in the bar. With that in mind, it happened sometime at noon when honest and working people work, their party mates sit in a café, drink and gossip about the president of the Republic and the current government. Let us see what we can do about the violation of the declaration adopted by this congregation. She said Srebrenica was a big crime, which I regret. Everyone should be responsible individually for the crime he committed, but those who committed the crimes around Srebrenica should, too, because one crime was committed by another crime. Mrs. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, although she was an MP at the time, as I recall, or she was an ambassador to Rome for 5,000 euros, came and said that Srebrenica was genocide and thus violated the document of this Assembly, the highest authority in this country. She also said about the Storm, where more than 200,000 people were expelled, in front of the Flight, and behold another Raskovic told before Letica that his grandkids were that and that, at his address, etc., that Storm was a humanitarian action. If it's a humanitarian campaign to banish 250,000 people, then I think she's operated on shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44660	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Do you want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one with abstentions - has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Games.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44661	Thank you, President. They've been two years since I've been trying to get the support of the ruling majority to put on the agenda changes to the Gambling Act, so that additional revenues from casinos, the National Lottery bookies, poker machines, can be rerouted to treat the most difficult patients who can't be treated in the Republic of Serbia. In the dozens of sessions that we had in this session, more precisely since 12 October 2016, when I first began to explain this law and so at each session when the agenda was established, the ruling majority, or its MPs, sat down, absolutely silent on this appeal, while, at the same time, pro-regmatizing tabloids literally stagmatise, insult, humiliate, and here, since this morning, have been re-proved public figures, which have been involved in gathering funds for healing, especially the youngest and children. This morning, the headlines of some tabloids took place where Sergei Trifunovic, re-pronounced, made him a criminal just because he recognized all the looks of this system and only because he's trying to help particularly dismayed parents who don't know who to turn to. We listened and heard more arguments from the resolute Minister Loncar, who blamed his parents, in response to the fact that they did not respond in time in the administrative procedure. It is logical to conclude, according to what he says, that those children were then treated in some of the witch doctors, or some alternative medicine, rather than the doctor, in a health system where he is the sole responsible person and this transfer of responsibility to someone should not pass. And therefore, this time I appeal to you, first of all, President Gojkovic, since you are also the chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Child in this National Assembly, and children have the right not only to live, but first of all to be treated. First of all, I expect you to press the "yes" key and support it to put this law on the agenda. Also, to help you press the "yes" key for your other colleagues and colleagues to do so, and especially to ask all fellow Members of the National Assembly, there are mothers and grandmothers and sisters and aunts and neighbors, who must have faced this problem at least once. If there's a party order above treatment and life, at least get up and leave this room, as a sign of solidarity, rebellion, because you put the party ahead of the treatment of children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44662	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the items – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44663	Of course, I thank the president. I always have a dilemma when I have to explain this proposal for amending the law and a request to put it on the agenda, because I don't know what's worse, whether as a proponent of decentralisation, I'm looking at local budgets, as people say, being pocketed by SNS political commissioners, and asking parallelly for those local budgets to be returned to what they were kidnapped in 2016, so that more money would be deposited into the central budget again. So, you don't know what's worse, pay the money back to the locals or leave it to the Republic, because certainly those who drag their hands into public budgets' pockets, so in the money they provide, they have no measure, they don't have it long ago, and now they've gone too far. I will illustrate it with two examples from the situation in the city that I most know, which is my Panchevo, since Belgrade was not in the regime of this law, but it is all other cities and municipalities. Panchevo is only 17km from Belgrade. Everything can be easily determined. Among other things, one of the actors in these cases is sitting among us, a colleague is an MP, probably rewarded for this work of his own, and we have a colleague who can testify, also a folk letter from Panchev about what I will present. What is a ghastly example of the abuse of local budgets, although I would continue as someone who advocates decentralisation, I repeat, to ask that mayors, presidents of municipalities on taxpayers' funds in their posts, are examples of counterpart Dusan Borkovic, who managed to draw more than one million euros from Pančec or from the budget of the town of Pancheva in 2017. According to official data published, more than 117 million dinars are defined for his two private, family club, which is easy to see in the APR, since both Brother Strahinja and wife Adriana are passing through the acts on these two AMK clubs and ASK NIS Petrol team, of course, registered to family private addresses in 2017 alone. Not to mention the previous states, when the entire budget for the sport of the town of Pancheva was 100 million in one year, and Dusan Borkovic's clubs got another 100 million, just his clubs. An additional, catastrophic example is the famous example of "Brifing Banat", the media, so-called "Banata". The portal that drained all the budgets in South Banat, so that the news doesn't exist and that his editor-in-chief is the personal driver of Branka...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44664	Time, thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44665	I thank the president. This is another opportunity for this ruling majority to support the amendment of this law in Article 5, which implies that fascists and neo-Nazis are forbidden to express hatred through their symbols, their actions, their actions, not only to members of national minorities, churches and religious communities, but also to members of LGBT populations. It is extremely important to do this exactly this call and to raise awareness right here in the National Assembly of that, especially among SNS MPs, that anti-discriminatory provisions must be recognised in all the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not enough to just walk once a year on the "Pryde" or publish flyers, lyphlets, etc. Supporting indigenous, especially poor officials, who are members of the LGBT population, it is already important to give the laws equal rights and to those who are not the same. So you must show final awareness that although Serbian citizens are not the same, they must be equal in front of the law. It would also be an opportunity for you to in some way apologize to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, who, at a time when she was valued here by the head of the SNS Parliament Club, Aleksandr Martinovic, was the minister, the only one who sat here in the benches during that day, but then we heard from the general public of the Republic of Serbia that the head of the SNS, the MP club here in the National Assembly, was part of the people who were healthy and sick compared to their sexual commitment. And he never apologized. It's been two years. It was the late autumn of 2016 and nothing to anyone. So, because of you, it is primarily important to show that you are aware of the attitude you have towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are also full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, whether they voted for you or did not vote for you or did not vote at all, whether they are members of the LGBT community or not. That is why you must provide them with equal rights and this is the right way, especially for both Mr Martinovic and his colleagues from the parliamentary club to finally apologize now to Prime Minister Ani Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44666	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former province secretary for sport and youth, Marinika Tepic, and the unintended spending of funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44667	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no objection to what Marinika Tepic has changed four parties in six months. As far as I remember, she was at Nenad Canka's, I know him by banging some plates, but I think he was too, like this, a peacetime guy for her, so she decided to move on to Jankovic, who wanted, like Ceausescu, to liquidate the president of the Republic of Serbia and become prime minister with 16% of the vote. After that, she was at Zivkovic's, most likely because of the fine wine, so she went from there to Mr. Gilas and Bosko Obradovic, only one of Jehovah's Witnesses was not and I have nothing against what she went through by all those organizations. But she's here talking about some nationalist gatherings, etc. The person who is in league with Bosko "Dverić" Obradovic "Ljotic", he is the angry Mrs. Chairman, or Bosko Obradovic is not angry, he is "Ljotic", therefore, just so we know. And, she made an alliance with Bosko Obradovic, who celebrates Dimitri Ljotic, the only Serb who has offered his troops to Vermacht, who is a proven neo-Nazi. So she made a coalition with him and now she's talking about how she's against nationalist organisations. She may be against national moderate organisations, perhaps even provoking herself to be of importance, but we can all conclude together that she is in league with Dragan Gilas, that she is in the alliance of thieves, frauds, Ljotics, with Bosko Obradic, with Dvori and she talks about the LGBT population. I really don't know, I think that the demonstration, against it, was held by this very Bosko "Ljotic". So, she's talking one thing, and she's teaming up with that same, not alone, but there's this Lutovci or the stray or the stray organization, I really don't understand what this alliance of thieves, frauds, Ljuticians, em receive everything, em are like a waste basket of all ideology, em are like a waste basket of all the political parties and associations. But Marinika Tepic also favored some private sports companies in the form of bodybuilders, who look this nice, and that is why I ask to examine her business, since the lady, as far as I know, has two apartments. One in Novi Sad is there over 100 square meters, because they knew nothing about corruption to take, but it had to be over 100 square meters right away, there was some property in Pancheva and to examine the relationship between sports clubs and its activities in sports organisations in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44668	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marjan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to the former mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you certainly know that GDP has been far greater these years than it was during Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic and this entire alliance of peljesanovics, fraud and mutibaric. Also, you know very well that the budget deficit that was over 7% is now zero. You also know that inflation, which was then 7% to 10% a year, is now between 1% and 2%. We also all know that the growth rate, which at the time of Gilas and the team was between 7% and 15% a year, is now zero. You also know that the coverage of imports, which during Gilas and other mutibarics and peljesanovic, was about 52%, that imports are now covered by exports almost 80%. You also know that for pensions, we don't have to single out half anymore, but it's enough to single out only 30% of new jobs. You also know that unemployment during Gilas and a team of cheaters, peljesanovics, checkers, etc., the nebula seller, that unemployment was 26%, that it was now reduced to, I think, an 11-12% figure, may those who know me correct me a little better than I do. You also know that production jumped. You also know that Serbia's political reputation in the world has jumped significantly and that we have support in several major forces, that Serbia is no longer politically decapitated, that in Serbia it can no longer be stolen as during Gilas, who, along with Delta, brought Delta's management to the PKK. In just one year, he increased the losses of the PKK by seven and a half billion, that he totalled the debt to 9.9 billion, which is 87m euros. Its goal was to pump money from the PKK, lower its value, and then buy the PKK for a fraction of the money pumped at a significantly lower price, buy it by 10m euros, as they used to with other businesses, because they bought several hundred combinations in Serbia for a price that did not exceed 50m euros, and one PKK was sold by 102m euros these days without a stock fund that would increase that price by 20m. That's why I'm asking to examine Mr. Gilas's business, not only about the PKK, because he even tried to reward Deltin's management that he brought, for that loss with 75 million dinars, and therefore I ask that all of his malversions, and there are a lot of them, where he earned 100m euros in exams, as well as the business of this entire family with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44670	Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the Serbia-related Lutrija affair with Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the privatisation of the tobacco industry and the involvement in the then state summit at the head with then-Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the "Vinograd" affair and the assets of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Do you want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the bankruptcy affair related to former Economy Minister Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please, before we determine and vote on the agenda, let's determine the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present. The National MP Aleksandar Martinović proposed to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation in the Area of Environmental Protection and Conservation of Nature, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Conservation of African-European Migration Birds of Water Stations, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Transport with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of the Population of Persons in Europe, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of Consentity of the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union to the Republic of Serbia, the European Union, the European Parliament and the Republic of Serbia, the European Parliament's Committee on the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament's Committee on the European Parliament's Committee on the European Parliament, adopted on the European Parliament's's's, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find the motion to merge the debate has been accepted. Since we have come to terms with these proposals, I am putting the draft agenda in general to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find that the agenda has been established and voted in general. I ask the service to prepare for us the consolidated text of the agenda. Dear MPs, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. With regard to Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm determining a one-hour break. With the debate on the agenda, we'll start at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44671	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the sittings of Goran Trivan, Minister of Environment Protection, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Ivan Karić, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment Protection, Jelena Tanasković, Željko Pantelić, Slobodan Perović, Biljana Filipović Đurišić, Jasmina Jović, Darko Komnenic, Sladjana Đukić Andrej Bojić, Branislava Atanaskovic, Darinka Radojevic, Dusan Ognjevic, Aleksandra Ognjević, Nikola Maravić, Milorad Dubak, Vladimir Mihajlović and Marija Raičević. In agreement with the Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint and principled search and a single search on proposals for acts from the agenda under points 1 to 6 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 157(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment Act; Proposal for a Law attesting the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Cooperation in the field of environmental protection and conservation of nature; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Conservation of African-European Migration Birds of Water Stations; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Transport with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Conservation of the Population of Blind Mouse in Europe and a Proposal for a Decision on Understanding on the Amendments of the Republical Fund for Health Insurance for 2018. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a minister, Mr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44672	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the initiative of the Governing Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund since 11 September this year, the Ministry of Health has launched a procedure for amending the RFZO financial plan for 2018 for the following reasons. Following the recommendation of the DRI, and following the adoption of the RFZO final account for 2017, the RFZO committed to launch an initiative with the competent ministry to plan and transfer neutral funds on 31 December 2017 and to increase the expenditures and expenditures of the RFZO in the amount of three billion and 600 million dinars. At the RFZO initiative, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded on 31 May this year in a way that defined funds for the treatment of rare diseases are increased by a billion and a half dinar to two billion dinars. Additional appropriations from the budget reserve of 500 million dinars have already been allocated under Section 27. The Ministry of Health, and by adopting the rebalancing, the RFZO achieves the condition to use the above-mentioned funds by amending the financial plan for 2018. Total additional funds in the new RFZO financial plan of four billion and 100 million dinars are allocated as follows: medicines to issue on the prescription of two billion dinars, medicines for rare diseases 500 million dinars, aids and devices 600 million dinars, subsequent earnings due to the temporary inability to work a billion dinars. It's a total of four billion and 100 million dinars. No additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is needed to implement the revision of the RFO's financial plan. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have already received all of the above in the material for this session. The essence of these formal arguments is what has marked your work in recent years among many other positive things, which is the fact that by 2012 they had not been adequately treated in Serbia. Let me briefly present to you what rare diseases are. It is a heterogeneous group of diseases, whose basic common feature is low prevalence. According to the International Base, around 7,000 rare diseases are known worldwide. According to the European Commission's definition, rare diseases are those affecting less than five people per 10,000. Today, between 6,000 and 8,000 rare diseases are estimated and that between 6% and 8% of the population, or about 36 million people in the EU, suffer from a rare disease. As of this year, at the Institute of Public Health, Batut has been running the Regiment of Rare Diseases in the Republic of Serbia, but its introduction is under way, so the registration process will continue and will continue, as rare diseases are detected almost daily. Progress for people with rare diseases was made in 2012, when 130 million dinars were identified in the health ministry's budget. Although insufficient, these funds are, in the conclusion of the government of the Republic of Serbia on how to use funds, defined for the treatment of persons suffering from congenital metabolic disease, which resembles enzyme substitution therapy. For the implementation of this conclusion, the government of the RFO formed a Commission for the Treatment of Indigenous Metabolism Diseases, which decided to treat four minor patients with Gosse disease and four patients with MPS1 from these funds in 2012. The following 2013 provided the same amount of funds for rare diseases, and since 2014 these funds have been increasing from year to year. In 2014, 260 million dinars were allocated, 335 million, 2016 600 million, and in 2017 a billion and 100 million dinars. This year, originally planned for a billion and a half dinars, which increased by 36% compared to 2017, and with these additional 500 million dinars, the cost of the country is treated by about 200 patients in a group of rare diseases, and these children are suffering from congenital metabolic disease where the disease has been diagnosed until 18 years of life, persons who have been diagnosed with congenital metabolic disease using enzyme substitial therapy, persons who are suffering from rare diseases that have just been involved in the treatment of the cost of the state, and for which the Commission for the treatment of congenital diseases of metabolism estimates that there has been proven effective therapy, individuals who have suffered from rare tumours of all localisations and individuals who have been suffering from heridal angioedema. Let me repeat, if someone missed, in 2011 zero dinars for rare diseases. In 2012 in Serbia, eight patients with rare diseases are treated for the cost of the state, and in 2018, the state for the treatment of about 200 children stands out two billion dinars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44673	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44674	Thank you very much. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me, in a few simple-expanded sentences, to express today what I believe is necessary to say when it comes to the bill that you have before you and several agreements and regulations that we want to discuss together with you. But before I move on to all of this, let me say that environmental protection is one of the basic flows of modern society, and that on this road our Chapter 27, which we are dealing with negotiating with the EU, is one of the most expensive and, of course, the most complicated. For those of us who deal with the environment what, of course, is also the most important chapter for Serbia to deal with, since, despite the possible respected pretentiousness in what I'm saying, it is in fact that all sectoral policies must be integrated into the protection of the environment, because all areas and sectors of work in any society, including Serbia, must be subject to principles concerning environmental protection. It's often not easy, of course, that often we who do these jobs or promote these ideas come across obstacles, but this is a question of the quality of our lives and, as we hear, among other things, investment in the health and life of our people, but it's also financially demanding. If we want to participate and withdraw funds from the European funds that have become available to our Republic today, we must be prepared to finance part of these costs as a state ourselves, so that we co-finance, as it is popular to say, and that we are on the way to make this system as comprehensive and as Serbia is right at the moment, and God, I would say in the time that is coming. The current practice of financing environmental protection cannot provide long-term needs when it comes to the environment, and therefore it will have to change and experience, of course, deep reforms because sufficient, predictable but also stable resources are needed to finance what needs are for Serbia in terms of estimated 15 billion euros in the quality of the environment, which will ultimately result in a better quality of our lives and a longer life for each of our citizens. The concrete law and the changes we are proposing today concern a fund called IPARD 2 and it's actually IPARD 2 program. In fact, it is about pre-accession aid for rural development which is measured, practically, by the time period between 2014 and 2020 and that users of these funds are, in fact, legal and natural persons. These funds are intended for cultivation, production, processing in food and agricultural production and, of course, include investments and in the physical assets of agricultural holdings. The point of these changes, which we recommend you to consider today, is that we could help our individual owners and individuals, so that they could actually meet whatever it takes to be able to participate and seek and search for funds from this fund. Also, I have to tell you that in this case, we don't need any additional funds in our budget. First of all, it is about our inspections to carry out a certain part of the work and, of course, that if you accept our proposals, a single act of the environmental body, which is both the condition of the EU and the Fund, will be needed in the future, so that our farmers and agricultural holdings can even exercise the right to these funds. This will be an act confirming that the investment meets the prescribed conditions, above all in the area of environmental protection. The law regarding this law, which is the IPARD, can be achieved, first of all, by natural persons, or by family owners, entrepreneurs, companies, but also by agricultural cooperatives. According to existing legislation, it is not possible to carry out this surveillance, which I spoke of only a few, natural persons applying for IPARD. With this, we propose the addition of the Law in Article 101 to which we create a legal basis so that we can adopt a regulation that determines what is being checked for users, potential users of this IPARD fund. This is, in fact, a way to enable our individual producers to exercise the right to significant financial resources from this fund. The whole point of these amendments to the law is that it doesn't need to be complicated, it's actually simple. So we create formal legal conditions so that we can really enable people to compete for these funds. On today's agenda, we have several agreements and protocols. I'll briefly mention each of these agreements and protocols. First, it is an agreement signed by Serbia and Croatia. It is an agreement signed by the governments of Serbia and Croatia on 8 June 2015. This Agreement has, in fact, created a legal basis for deeper co-operation between Serbia and Croatia in the field of environmental protection, and I personally think that this Agreement is good and wide. It is important to say that Serbia, especially from the moment of the establishment of the Ministry of Environment, wants to play a serious regional role in this topic and that, in line with this, we want to achieve deeper and stronger co-operation with all the countries in the environment. I must also say that both Serbia and Croatia, as well as all countries in the region, are essentially plagued by the same problems that concern environmental protection and that, basically, if we're going to be simpler, we don't have much to say about what's entirely specific to us, it's also specific to other countries that are in the environment. It is our ambition to raise this cooperation to the highest possible level. Just as it is necessary to say that in a political sense, if you want, although it is not a topic, the protection of the environment seems to me, a topic that does not have any political mortgage in the region and that all the colleagues I have met and that the environment ministers from the region are actually looking at the same way we do, that it is not a matter of politics and that it is a matter of our better lives and that, indeed, everyone I have talked to is fundamentally in the field of the environment, which we will, of course, use as part of our own initiatives. Since we are not a small country here in the region, because we have a lot of experience, believing that this experience we have since 1991, establishing then the Ministry of Environment, or even better, in that former Yugoslavia in 1948 when we founded the Nature Protection Institute, we have something to offer as a knowledge, as an experience, and I have to say as one hand that is provided and is eager to co-operate in the region, which can be based entirely on without any, as I said, mortgage. The areas in which we would cooperate are without restrictions in the environment, of course, and this is about protecting the environment, protecting nature. It is particularly interesting for me to talk to the Croats about the region of Mura, Danube and Drava, where, apart from the Danube and Sava, this region is important and can be interesting to us because our colleagues say that we have some open issues when it comes to our borders. The subject needs to be demystified, too. Politicians will agree on whether there are open issues and whether the border can be like this or something, but what's important from our environmental aspect is that ecosystems don't really care whether the border is on this side or on that side. It connects us, actually. It's not bad to do a common natural good that's protected in the area, say, Moore, Danube, Drava. When it comes to the Danube and the Sava, there is little to be said about it, the Danube is understood and significant for all of Europe, but also for us in the region and we are also ready for this kind of co-operation. We want to talk to them and work on risk management because we share the same risks. Climate change has brought a lot of difficulties that we all share. There's no such thing as boundaries. Droughts and floods and better to say rainfalls that are insane when it comes to regions or incorrect schedules over the year have actually brought us all the same difficulties, and I really want to make a whole system in this part of Europe that will be a system that will allow everyone to follow closely everything that happens on that plan, to follow river levels, etc., not to strangle you with details. In any case, we have more questions about biodiversity and its protection and understands the protection of habitat species, etc. As for the agreement on the preservation of African-European migratory birds and their water habitats, I would say to you that it is one of the largest agreements of that kind in the world, that it came into force on 1 November 1999, that it includes about 255 species of birds and that it covers 119 countries from Europe, Asia, Africa and Canada and that about 125 pass through Serbia, so half of all of these species that we are talking about and that out of these 125, it is as many as 105 that are classified as strictly protected species or 14 protected species. So, I remind you that Serbia is a nest and a wintering site of these, and that, significant species not only for Serbia but for the whole world, and that our role here is very important, since we are indeed on the migration path of the nests and wintering sites of these significant birds. For countries like us, we're told that the state is the arena of these animal species. Here is our biodiversity, and I also remind you that Serbia belongs to one of the 40 richest areas of biodiversity on the planet and that this is more reason to try to preserve all of this that we are talking about today. I also remind you that when it comes to wetland areas because here we are talking about and this is the Ramsar Convention that treats the issue of wetlands, which I personally consider to be very important for the entire biodiversity and for our entire biology on this field, not just for migratory birds. We will have the ambition as the Ministry to pay much more attention to these areas in Serbia that it has and try to protect them in agreement with other entities. That means keeping them, improving them and expanding them. I mean, everyone in the region except Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified this agreement I'm talking about. At the same time, this agreement allows access to the G Fund, which is that global environmental fund and finally, I want to tell you that this is about bird protection, but also about raising awareness without which we're not going to take a step further in this direction. We want to enable research, we want to prevent the killing of birds. I'm not sure that we'll be able to look more at the poaching and lawless killing of all those protected birds that one minute need to fly out of Serbia to fly there somewhere else, saving for those habitats and for those biodiversitys and for those other conditions that some other people live in, and not just humans, but organisms. So this issue is an important issue, because Serbia must begin to civilise itself with the living world. It doesn't mean that we're the only ones present here in this space and on the planet. This implies that from this moment on we will take more care of how we protect our birds and that someone's economic or any other interest cannot be more important than the life of those birds, which are extremely important to our biodiversity and at all flora and fauna in our area. So that's where we talk about killing and smuggling the same birds. But also, I like to say that the 40 areas mentioned earlier that are the richest biodiversity on our planet, this is part of our beauty. If you are not aware of what beauty we really live in, please remember that, taking a look at the wonderful photographs of our Serbia, which is still beautiful and which has something to offer not only to us, but to those children who come after us. If we keep this story of biodiversity, this story will have a chance to make it work for those who are just coming. Psychologists know, and sociologists, that personality forms by most of it forming an environment, and today we're talking about the environment. Please understand that and take it quite seriously, because we, without the phrases, have no other state, and we have no other biodiversity, and we are one of the richest areas in the world. It's time we all turned to it together and everyone did what little they could do to make it really big for all of us and that it wasn't a phrase, and it's possible. Now I would like to draw your attention to the Protocol on Sustainable Transport under the Karpat Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, in several sentences. Let me say that the Convention has a subregional character, that this format is guided by the UN, the EU, etc., that it has been signed by seven countries in our environment – Ukraine, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Serbia, of course, on 22 May 2003, with the aim of ensuring sustainable human, social, cultural, economic and any other development of this area and region. The protocol was signed in 2014 and the goal, of course, is to ensure sustainable transport and traffic, as well as the accompanying infrastructure in the Karpat area, for the benefit of nature and future generations. So the point is to preserve this wonderful region, which makes this part of Europe and the world really special and that transport as one essential remethylative factor in this part of nature's protection, which is important, let's make it so that it doesn't interfere with what is the issue of the need for our preservation and all of what I said in a few short sentences. Let me also say that the Agreement on the Conservation of Blind Mouse Population in Europe or Euro-Bac was created in 1991 and that it has been in force since 1994, that its objective is to protect and preserve the bat population and that we have as many as 52 types of bats in our area, which are extremely important for our balance in nature and that they enjoy the most frequently the highest level of protection. Here we are also talking about 66 countries that have joined this agreement, in Europe, parts of Asia and Africa. The idea is that through monitoring and monitoring trends are defined and the measures that will be applied in Serbia when it is established what we should actually do. Otherwise, 29 species of bats are found to be present, that we have four that we believe are not completely reliable that there are 29 of these species of bats on the list of strictly protected species. Serbia, of course, is obviously on a migration path, on the corridor, but it is also, as in the previous case, the winter ground of these countries, as I have already said. It's about preserving biodiversity and our balance. I have to say, this is the only mammal that actually flies actively. As you know, it feeds on plants, but there are carnivores, which in this case are insects and mammals, etc. and make up mammals called bats, make up almost one quarter of all mammals on the planet. So I find that our bats are significantly endangered and that in this case, as in the past, we have something to look after. Let me also mention the protocol, which I have already mentioned about the Carpathians, where I have missed to say that all the countries that have joined this agreement are actively working on what we have here today and that through these several agreements, whether it is the preservation of the population of bats, whether it is the Carpathian Protocol or that it is the Agreement on the Conservation of African and Eurasian Migration Species or the Agreement with Croatia, all of them are unusually important for what we would like to affirm as a policy which is the policy of our country, our president and Prime Minister in what Serbia actually wants to do, which is to become a clear, transparent country, with clear policies and especially with the environment, which can be a comparative advantage in what we really think we need to achieve. It is very important that I once again express this awareness that the environment does not really know the limits and that all my fellow ministers I have met in the region, regardless of where they came from, were completely open to this story in the same way, with the same sentences that I am speaking to you today, and this gives me hope that we can do with Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, etc., that I do not order, indeed wonderfully co-operate, and that somewhere similar we all think about this story and that all of what we are starting here today as a story and initiative is the story of some of our community, whatever it is called. If we take this seriously, and we take it extremely seriously, we believe that our team in the government and the Ministry of Environment is able to lead some path that has not been quite common for Serbia so far when it comes to the environment, we have a broad field in all of this, we have competent knowledge and institutions in Serbia that can help us do all this. Please, considering all of this today, you're making a contribution to making our acts better than we might have suggested here today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44675	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44676	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Expension Control supported and agreed on a decision to give consent to the enlargement, when it comes to the revision of the RSO financial plan for 2018. And you heard Mr. Lonchar that it's 500 million dinars, especially on the item, budget item 25.3. that refers to the treatment of rare diseases. But what we had the opportunity to hear on that board is that, indeed, the treatment of rare diseases, and especially minors, or children, has experienced major transformations since 2011. And when we talk about 200 children today being treated on the basis of those who have zero treatment from the budget, it shows the great responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia throughout all these years, that besides economic reforms, there is indeed a system under which there are financial resources and whose parents are sick to turn to for real treatment abroad to be paid. Treatments are in a certain way through giving funds and invoices directly to hospitals abroad, which is very important, to remove any suspicion that budgets are being spent in one way or another. But I have to say, the RFO has really had a major transformation. First, a new system of operations has been established since 2013 to this day, in addition to the digitisation that we have fully entered, when it comes to invoices and payments in general, a six-month control system of invoices has been established, which means that indeed every dinar is controlled as a result of spending, but also that there is an increased control of work, especially when it is a spottant response if an institution outside Belgrade or in Belgrade itself needs additional funds, especially when it comes to treating children and that it is indeed done in an adequate and efficient way. Secondly, new funds have been established for various types of diseases that have never been defined by the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is important to say precisely because of citizens of Serbia who have opportunities in the public to hear all sorts of qualifications, any stories that simply do not stand. Finally, it should be said that for the first time in the Republic of Serbia, RFZO, with the help of certain financial resources, is providing innovative medicines for the newest generations, which is very important, especially when we have had the opportunity to hear from the health minister that the spectrum of diseases that occur today is increasing and increasing, especially as medicine progresses, so are certain medicines. I think it is important to say that Serbia is going its own way, globally, and that it is following all these innovations and that it is very important for us when it comes to human health. And this topic about the environment, in the end, has a lot to do with people's health, which is why today's financial plan is also one of the topics of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I think it is important to say that we had questions on the Committee – is it enough for two billion dinars to support the actual treatment of this number of children? This year, it's been projected this far. For the next year, we will, of course, have the budget in front of the MPs at the end of the year, and surely we will design these funds in an extremely responsible and good way, where we can at any moment actually meet all the parents, all the children who are in trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44677	Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a colleague, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44678	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, firstly, I would like to express the satisfaction of finally coming before us topics related to the protection of the environment, because we have a rare opportunity in this Assembly that only these topics can be spoken of and little importance is given to protecting the environment. Also, I would like to point out that perhaps in this principle debate, in these 20 minutes, I would like to repeat some of the things the minister has already said. I don't think it's against the fact that as often as possible to repeat some facts so that we can become more conscious not only of us here in this room, but of the citizens who are following this assembly. So, in the debate, I would start with the 2018 Report on progress in the EU accession process. I'm just gonna make some facts out. It's about Chapter 27, which was also spoken of by the minister. It's a chapter we keep saying, and it's been heard more than once now that it's most demanding when it comes to investment. The first was that according to the first 2011 report, some 10.5-11 billion euros would be needed. Now a figure of about 15 billion euros appears. I suppose, thanks to the facts that occurred in the meantime. In any case, a chapter that's most demanding. The report, among other things, says: “Serbia is on a certain level of preparation in the field of environment and climate change, ” a quoted sentence, which I interpret as almost nothing. It's just that I have to put it extremely harshly. It also said in the report that over the following year we should increase administrative and financial capacity, to strengthen the Environment Protection Agency, which is unfortunately the only agency that has not shut down since 2012. I will remind you that in 2012, the Environmental Protection Fund was shut down. Then, to operate on the Green Fund and provide adequate resources for it, to intensify work on implementation and enforcement such as closing of wild dumps, investment in classification and recycling of waste, improving air quality monitoring. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we are very inclined not to give the means to monitor the environment or to monitor the environment, so we actually have big problems with the data, and yet, on the other hand, it creates a problem of competition for any funds, any funds, whether it is domestic or foreign. Without adequate and valid data, there is hardly anything you can get from the funds. To improve the management of river basins and prepare for the Natura 2000 network, i.e. the protection of nature. Then, to implement the "climate agreement" among other things and for comprehensive climate change strategies that would be in line with the EU climate and energy policy framework for the period up to 2030 and to integrate well into all relevant sectors. What's the problem with environmental protection is that, in fact, this intersectoral co-operation has very little or better to say that there is no understanding of other sectors such as, for example, the energy sector or some other stronger sectors, so, let's say, we recently had the opportunity to hear the Minister of Energy say that Serbia is rich in forests. With us, the tree is still used to store, and we recently, I don't know how long ago, had the information that, when the Forest Law was discussed here, more than 60% of Serbia's forests were in publishing territories. Vojvodina is very little forested and forests are extremely threatened with illegal urine and insufficient care. Therefore, his finding simply does not stand. It says in this report that Serbia has achieved a high level of compliance with EU legal assets. A new financing instrument for this area. The Green Fund hasn't started yet, so they say. and that foreseeable funding is required on the basis of the principle – pay contaminant, in order to increase investment in this sector. It is necessary, they say, to make further progress in the transposition and implementation of the remaining horizontal legislation, especially the Responsibility Directive, which is a major problem with us. Work is under way to implement the Environmental Crime Directive and the Infrastructure Directive for spatial information on the European Community. They also stress the need to strengthen the capacity of environmental inspection at the central and local level. What's a stumbling block, I expect the minister to inform us more about it, is exactly the functioning of the inspection, whether we have enough inspectors, whether they're mobile enough, whether at any time they can go out on the ground and react in an adequate way, because citizens will not appreciate the work of this ministry and any level, if they report to them and to those damages that are done in the environment the inspection doesn't respond in time and if it isn't processed until the end. The next instance is a judiciary which also, I think, has not enough capacity, not enough knowledge to respond to complaints from this area, so we have a problem here that citizens have a feedback on what has been done according to certain applications, or whether what they have reported or the damages they have done somewhere have been properly processed. They also say, as far as climate change is concerned, Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparation, but implementation is at a very early stage. And not to be too long about this, these are just parts of the reports that actually show that we haven't gotten far in this area, or when I say this area, I mean protecting the environment. This is important, not because of Europe, whether we are going to be a member of the EU or not, it is important that we, in countries like Germany and others, give extremely good results... It's a completely ecologically decorated country, where, say, 95% of wastewater is being cleaned up and they don't have that problem anymore, and we've been saying for years that we're at a level of up to 10% of wastewater treatment, which means I've just cited it as an example, that we're not investing enough, and that's very important, first of all, because of our health. We also have a health minister here, who can, or is glad to hear this information. Today we have before us, finally to come up with a bill of law, amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act that only members of the laws relating to the use of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia to co-finance projects financed from international development aid and other financial resources and which require co-financing of sources. They also mention this new member of the law which allows for the making of a regulation relating to IPARD users in the area of agriculture and rural development which are obliged to meet the appropriate environmental protection conditions. I am very pleased to finally see the demands to meet the requirements of environmental protection in agriculture. I will remind you, although you, Minister, have already mentioned, that there is a Regulation that is closer to the regulation of persons exercising the right to IPARD incentives for investments in the physical assets of agricultural holdings for the period 2014-2020. I'm afraid we're quite late here, that it's already the end of 2018, and we're just now passing this regulation that defines the criteria for compliance with the rules, that's how we behave when environmental protection is at stake in this area. You mentioned it, and I'm going to make the rights to the funds from this fund have physical faces, bearers of the family farm, then entrepreneurs, companies and agricultural cooperatives. Are these funds used by large foreign participants, such as “Tenis”? I expect you to help me. Will the rules of that Regulation apply to such users as well? I would like to stress that agriculture is one of the most aggressive environmental pollutants, i.e. Land, water and air, and also leads to soil erosion. It is very important to respect the requirements of environmental protection in agriculture. In other words, intersectoral integration is necessary. I'll point out, for who knows which time, it's the most common problem that one area doesn't respect another. In this case, the link between agriculture and environmental protection. This amendment of the law will hopefully, in practice, be properly implemented and the requirements to be defined by this regulation, as set out in this new article, that they will be met and respected. Only then will we be able to say that environmental protection has affected the behaviour of the agricultural sector. We are witnessing a large accumulation of working surfaces, especially on the territory of Vojvodina, where the wind protection belts between the parcels have been destroyed, these are now large complexes, along the roads. There is one piece of information that, for example, in the territory of the Vojvodina from a single hectare of land, a single cube of land is carried away annually by the wind. It all ends up in settlements, or rather, in our lungs. Also, in other parts of Serbia due to uncontrollable forest cutting, or trees, there has been a glider, and an obvious example of this is the fall of this supporting wall on Corridor 10 and, the deforestation of forests leads to the accumulation of greenhouse gases, which affects climate change. It is again a story of our behavior contributing to the harmfulness of climate change. Agriculture pollutes the environment because of the use of pesticides, fertilisers and salt. Only 10 to 15% of pesticides administered reach target pests, and the rest ends up in air, water and land. In other words, it gets into our system. What remains as a problem, which is not, unfortunately, the bill provides for, is the status of the "green fund". It is still budgetary and only part of the funds collected from environmental pollution compensation is returned through funding of green projects in the environment, and the rest disappears somewhere in the budget. To use a newspaper title that says – an ecological dinar full of budget holes. Why is that? Namely, the 2015 Budget System Act abolished the purposeal nature of environmental compensation, and only about 30% of the Fund picks up annually, you correct me, about 12 billion dinars. More or less, but maybe, well, let's go to 10. In any case, a lot of resources are collected, and only about 30% return through projects to protect the environment. Many municipalities, which have, again, been deprived of funding from other laws, use these funds from the area, or from environmental protection fees, to maintain liquid liquidity. And, it's a great shame, unfortunately, that there is no finance minister present here to hear today's debate, because I'm afraid that everything we're talking about today he doesn't know anything about, because simply, this topic of the environment is not a priority in the budget and is not a priority in the political structures and in those who make decisions at all. That's why we keep repeating the same story, the same thing, not to say, mantra, year after year and not investing enough. If we don't invest now, later we'll be in damage recovery, which we've had a chance to see in 2014 and later years, because of droughts. We're going to invest a lot more for recovery, not for prevention. At the same time, and this is what we are through this agenda, we sign various agreements and conventions that we commit as a state to protect various segments of the environment, which means that what we sign and respect. So today we're discussing several protocols and agreements. I just want to comment on some of the agreements and protocols. Firstly, on the African-European migration birds and water habitats that have been defined, I will repeat the definition that we have the opportunity to see in an explanation, I do not think it is to be renegotiated either because of those watching this show, that water habitat birds are the species of birds that, in ecological terms, the bar in part of its annual cycle depends on water habitats whose arena is partly or in whole within the area of the agreement. Water habitats have multiple significance not only for birds and other plant and animal species, but also for the development of tourism in these areas, and what is particularly important, which I think is very little to know about as well as for the protection against floods. This is particularly interesting in the areas of the Vojvodina territory, which was otherwise the blue area once so that human activities are brought into an area that today looks like it. There are eight protected water areas in Vojvodina, and there are two in the narrow part of Serbia. There are dozens more studies to protect new spaces that have been developed by nature protection institutions, provinces and republican ones, but their resolution is waiting because the interests of agriculture, water industry and protection need to be brought into line. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture is awaited, and there are also interests in increasing arable areas, because the trend is the story of renting land, then, the interests of the new surfaces of the forest and the interests of the waters to be dried up again by some areas that are blue, i.e. in water areas. When it comes to the implementation of laws concerning the protection of nature and the functioning of protected areas, the destruction of habitats has been seen by illegal construction of tourist and other objects in protected areas, it is also one of the major problems, again the clash of environmental protection with the requirements of construction and tourism. In addition, during the field tour by experts from civil society organisations, intensive logging of forests in certain areas has been observed, but unfortunately the data and reasons for such cutting and their scope are unreachable to the public. By nature, particularly dangerous bare cuts are carried out in protected areas, sometimes in the strictest protection regimes. Managers of protected areas in large numbers of public enterprises do not have sufficient capacity to implement protection measures, do not have adequate financial support to function, nor adequate control of work by competent authorities, and often carry out activities themselves for benefit. Then, illegal hunting of wild animal species, especially birds, is recognised as a major problem in Serbia, which is repeated year after year, and the reason for this is the lack of knowledge and non-compliance with the law, insufficient control, we return to the topic of functioning of inspections, lack of police capacity, lack of knowledge and punishment of the crimes committed. That's the story again about the insufficient capacity we have in the judiciary. As regards the Protocol on Sustainable Transport under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, I will remind you that this Assembly adopted the Carpathian Convention, which we have committed to working together at regional level in the protection and sustainable development of Karpat in the context of the process – the environment for Europe. This Convention defines the obligations of the Signatory States with regard to sustainable use and water management... Can I ask the chairman to ask for some silence? I'm really getting used to my colleagues. Among other things, here are the procedures for transport in this area, and today we are talking about sustainable transport with this Convention. on a protocol saying that all parties will co-operate among other things to reduce negative impacts on human health and improve traffic safety, development and promotion of transport models and systems that have a positive impact on the environment, especially in environmentally sensitive areas. I do not want to mention the area of Fruska Gora National Park as an example of the impact of traffic, through which the highway passes, or the frequency of traffic is more than 12,000 vehicles per day. The move of this time unfortunately by the Ministry of Transport continues, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not recognised as a priority and delayed. And this year we'll talk about making project documentation, etc. But in fact, nothing is going on and on and on and through the national park is going through heavy traffic that pollutes and destroys the forest and there is no story again of lack of compliance and there is no co-operation with other sectors. In the end, I have an obligation that, on behalf of experts who have struggled to adopt an agreement on the preservation of the bat population, I say a few words about these lovable animals, which many think is not necessary to protect them, that it is a little funny that we in such a serious home talk together with the Health Insurance Fund about bats, and they are very important and should not be underestimated. So European bats are very important for balance, I will repeat what the minister said, because they are mostly fed on flying insects that are generally harmful, some of which can become serious pests of crops and forests or are carriers of infectious diseases to the population. The wealth of the species of bats also speaks of the richness of biodiversity and the health of nature. How much attention is given to research and protection of bats in Europe, according to the UNEP, there is a special secretariat that monitors protection through the International Agreement on the Protection of Blind Mouse in Europe, Euro Badston. The Agreement has been joined by all European countries. Unfortunately, we and BiH did it last, BiH did it in March this year, and we, like the bad students, do it last, but it's never too late. I hope in the budget for next year, I'm going back to the money again, all this is nice and all these agreements are great and I need to respect them, but if we don't provide the funds, no matter what in all these documents, that sentence, which I'm creeping out when I read it, doesn't need any extra funding. It is necessary that huge funds are finally allocated in the budget to the area of protection, primarily to strengthen the inspection service, to adequately protect the environment and to respect the area as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44679	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44680	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, today we have 14 draft laws on the agenda, including the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, and that is an important law, such as the Law on granting consent to the decision on amendments to the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan. I will say more about these two draft laws, because today we also have a bill to confirm an agreement on the preservation of African-European migration birds, water habitats, a bill to confirm the protocol on sustainable transport, along with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat and a proposal for a law confirming the agreement on the preservation of the population of bats in Europe. These are also important laws, but while we are talking about birds here, such as Barca popcorn, the Small Crane, the Yellow Sea Dirt, the Magaret penguin, the Bald Rage, the Red Pocket, the Quadrarian Pelican, the Curly Crow and many others, and while we are fighting for the rights of bats on the part of Gracanica municipality, there is a residence for the government of Kosovo and it is intensively working on creating radio television for Kosovo, and unfortunately it has not been a topic and priority for this Assembly, because the government does not want to discuss it. As for the proposed laws, let me also mention this agreement on the preservation of the bat population, it was made up in London on 4 December 1991. Then, one amendment was made on July 24 to 26, 2000, in Bristol, and here we are talking about today. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, it is clear that this law, above all, concerns the IPARD funds, which Serbia should withdraw by 2020 or at least try to withdraw and all those agricultural landowners who want to exercise their rights to these incentives must meet the appropriate conditions of environmental protection. We, as a parliamentary group, can support this law and this is a good bill, like all the others, that you have proposed today. So all of these laws we can support, these are important laws and good laws. The question for the state of Serbia itself -- whether there was any higher priority, perhaps today, than this to discuss, but okay, we'll talk about these laws. As far as environmental protection is concerned, this is an area in which Serbia is quite lagging behind the EU and rich in countries comparable from Central and Eastern Europe. The current situation is bad. It's very bad, and what threatens and the health of our country's population, reduces the average life span and, of course, worsens the quality of life in Serbia. One of the problems, if we talk about environmental protection, is that wastewater is being purified in Serbia by less than 10% of waste water, as you know, while in comparison countries in Central and Eastern Europe it is around 70%. In Serbia, unfortunately, and the largest cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad and others do not have wastewater treatment systems and all waste water and sewerage from these cities end up in our rivers, in Danube and Sava, if it is Belgrade and Novi Sad, but it is similar with other cities in Serbia. Comparedly, Budapest cleans up 95% of waste water, Bratislava 99% Vienna as much as 100%, Sofia 75% and Bucharest 60%. As far as smaller towns are concerned, I come from Triestenik and the entire move of West Morava, from Kraljev via Vranja Banja, Trstenik, all the way to Kruševac, complete waste water and sewerage is released in West Morava. To make the problem even bigger, the water supply system of the town of Trieste takes water from that same West Morava. There are accumulatory lakes, water from West Morava is pumped into these plants and is still distributed into the water network. So, all that flows down Morava from the direction of Chačka, Kraljena, Vranjačka Banja, somewhere in Tristenik poses a serious danger to people's health in terms of healthy drinking water. The fact that we do not have systems to clean up the water is a bigger problem than not having a sewage network covering a significant part of Serbia's territory. Today in Serbia, around 55% of the population is somehow attached to sewer systems, meaning half of them. Maybe a little more than three million, 3.1 million people use septic pits and those that have septic pits and those that are attached to sewers eventually have the same effect, that wastewater ends up in our rivers, in our streams, in our canals and lakes, whether someone has now tanked their septic pit or you have a sewer that leads to the river. It's just a matter of technique, but it doesn't change the essence. There is indeed a problem, and that is something that Serbia must seriously deal with in the next period, because it is primarily important for people's health. You have, say, Belgrade municipalities like Mladenec or Obrenovac, where only 45% or 40% in the case of Obrenovac, citizens are attached to the sewerage network. It's about 33% in my Trieste. Now, that kind of wastewater situation also causes a situation with healthy, drinking water and water conditions. That's why we have the information that in 2017 56% of the city's water lines had all the right drinking water. The remaining 44% did not have proper water. And if we're talking about rural water pipelines, there's an even worse situation, and only about 37% of the water supply has the right drinking water, and this really represents an alarming data for Serbia, so that adequate measures can be taken. When we talk about environmental protection, we also have to mention what happens to solid municipal waste and dump management. As a state, we collect about 80% of municipal waste, but the problem is that very little of this waste is being processed, unlike European countries where in some of them or at EU level, the average is if I don't cheat somewhere around 75% is being processed, with almost all the waste being deposited on dumps, and there's a very bad system. We had it in the previous period. I was the president of the municipality in Triestenik for a period of 10 years and tried to create a regional dump for that part of Serbia. It was supposed to be in Pazar, then in the King, then in Kruševec, in the end, it was divided, and one wanted one side, the other side on the other, and today we don't know where it came from and what would happen to this regional dump, and it goes on forever. It's an endless story and there are always some new problems and there's just no solution. I think that would be very important and that one solution is to finally establish a system of regional dumps. When we talk about waste, I especially need to stress control of the currents of dangerous industrial waste, and I'm going to mention that again on the case of the city I'm from. Trstenik is one of the municipalities that has been exposed to the combustion of waste oils, trafo oils, other waste oils in its city heat. By being one of the private forms in your ministry's consent, it's been granted certain permits that these waste oils can convert, kobajagi, by some process into an emulsion, which should replace energy and then burn in the city's heat. The air test results were catastrophic. We've had problems with that every year. That took ten years. The prosecution finally took over some processes, some people were arrested for it, and they're probably running these processes. But it's not about us punishing those who do things, it's about keeping them from happening, because nobody can make up for it. Being punished for a misdemeanor or a violation of the law did not solve the problem that citizens and our children faced inhaling bad air. When I talk about air, at least a third of Serbia's population is exposed to excessively polluted air by some analyses, and that's about 2.5 million citizens, people in Serbia, living in areas with excessive air pollution. We also have famous black spots like Bor, Valjev, Užica, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Smedereva, Subotica, but we also have these big cities like Novi Pazar, Vranja, Pirota, where there are no valid air condition data. So, in order for all of this to be resolved, Mr. Minister, it is necessary to invest, and if Serbia continues to invest as 0.2% of GDP so far in protecting the environment and all of what I was talking about, we cannot hope that none of these problems will be solved. So, the key thing is to increase the share of investment in the field of environmental protection to address these problems, which primarily concerns the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Another question, which is also about environmental protection and your ministry, which is building a mini power plant. That is a pretty serious subject we've been facing for the past few years. Some citizens organize protests. At this point in Serbia, there are 81 mini hydropower plants, most of which are the EPS, and then the rest are some private firms, the largest of which have companies associated with Mr. Nikola Petrovic, the godmother of Aleksandr Vukic. Now that you look at these energy balance facilities, they bring very little, and they have immeasurable ecological effects on flora, fauna, nature, rivers and everything else, the question is whether Serbia should continue to support it and whether it is the interest of Serbia to preserve the river, preserve habitats, or whether some individuals who want to make some income through their private business do so. So you also have the opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia, you probably know it all very well, which realizes that you are taking all these activities and that they have a bad influence on all parts of the waterways, especially the will of individual investors that threaten the riverbeds, elements of alluvial levels, hydrological regimes, etc. I'm not the most professional in this area, but it's clear what I'm trying to tell you. So the point is that if we continue to build mini power plants in certain areas of Serbia in this way, I really think that in terms of nature protection, we are seriously playing and I think we should get in the way. In Pirot, as we have seen and what we know is the spatial plan for construction on the old mountain 58 mini power plants. Now that you look at what the results of these 81 are doing, it is that in the period from 2013 to 2017, companies that are part of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia were paid 17.6m euros, and companies in which Nikola Petrovic today owns his business partners were paid about 10m euros. They certainly benefit, but the question is whether the state of Serbia is benefiting from it and how you, as a resolute minister, see and what your moves will be in the coming period on this issue. In the end, I want to look back on this bill, about changing the plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and we can accept it as a parliamentary group, too, because it is something to invest in, human health has no price. The problem is that today, in October 2018, after six years of your reign, this is on the agenda. We will always vote with two hands for anything similar to the lives of our children and the lives of our people, but you could say – we will not invest 15m euros in Belgrade's gondola, it is not our priority. Our priority is to treat our children, not, Mr. Minister, that you target foundations, actors, athletes, who in the absence of the state in some way wanted to support all those people and their children who failed to find a solution to their health problems in their country and in their ministry, they had to raise money to get health somewhere in the world, anywhere. So that's the point of the problem. So we have a chronic problem in Serbia's health, chronic dissatisfaction of doctors leaving, mass leaving Serbia, dozens of them leaving certain health centres at the monthly level. We have a situation that citizens are unhappy, because the health system for them is unreachable, because they can't be treated for waiting lists, because of the organization of the entire system. I, and last time we talked about the topic of health, invited you not to go as a minister, but to go once without an escort, as an ordinary citizen, say at Kruševac Health Center, somewhere that no one notices you, so look at what waiting rooms look like, what the relationship of dissatisfied doctors to patients looks like, what the health system looks like. It's a picture and an opportunity. When you go to the Clinical Center in Nis, and of course you're there for the whole show, of course the media presents health care in Serbia as the best in Europe. Of course, it does not present itself that whenever it rains in that European Clinical Centre, it pours sewers on the floor, so doctors move from one end to the other. So, as for the treatment of rare diseases, we absolutely support this, and we're going to support all these similar things, but I think that reaction is too late. Especially the problem, and if it's caused by some actors or athletes helping our children, our people don't need you to target them now as some kind of mercenaries, what you've done, like some kind of people who want bad to their country. No, they just wanted to help people, because maybe they were in a situation more than someone else. It's a question for you -- why didn't you do it, but you let some other Serbian citizens do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44681	According to the Rules of Procedure, is that right, fellow Turk? You have no right to a replica. You're authorized, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44682	Thank you, Chairman. I agree that there is a lot of work ahead of Serbia when it comes to protecting the environment and that we have a great deal of work to do on the construction of water and sewerage networks. But perhaps our work would now be easier if our predecessors, those in responsible positions, were the heads of cities and municipalities, had done something about it. Exactly, like my previous speaker, who was in a position to do such a thing and perhaps improve the quality of life of residents from the municipality from which he comes and represents. If there were no abuse in cities and municipalities, we would be in a far better position today as far as any of these infrastructure projects are concerned. Here, in particular, in the municipality of Trstenik, it collapsed, practically a 20 million dinar factory project collapsed. Today, we have only the foundations that have grown and are virtually unusable. There were many more cities and municipalities where funds were misused. Only cleaning the spring in Tristenik municipality cost close to 20 million dinars, which is why the then director of the municipal enterprise, who was a member of the URS, was arrested. So, if money hadn't been spent so unintendedly, all citizens would have much better conditions today. We solve these problems today. It takes a lot of money, takes a lot of time. But we are specifically in the municipality of Trstenik, through the resources of the Water Directorate, building a new water line, we are building a new highway to Počekovina, which is worth 35 million dinars. We are also doing a project to provide healthy water on the left side of the river for 21st century residents. We're doing a project to connect the whole ring and establish that water supply system. We're also in serious sewer construction projects. These are all projects that require a lot of time, but we have seriously embarked on getting the project into updating documentation and obtaining permits to provide our residents with the best possible conditions for life. Again, I repeat, major projects require great resources and a lot of time, but we have done something concrete. The fact is that throughout Serbia is working to improve infrastructure when it comes to municipal and water supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44683	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44684	First, I want to thank you for supporting this change, that is, this budget rebalance. I just have to remind you of a few facts, which is that in 2011, none of the children of rare diseases were treated, in the same budget you had zero letters and numbers, zero dinars for rare diseases. I'll remind you, if you can just take it, when those parents came to meet the ministers at the time and everything, that they were sheltered that they couldn't get to them, and that it couldn't be seen anywhere. It's a fact none of us can change. So in 2011, zero dinars, zero patients of rare diseases. Today, today, when we talk about it, more than 200 young people, or children, are treated from the budget, over this year, two billion dinars. If we compare zero dinars and zero children, two billion dinars today and 200 children, I really don't know how else to show and prove how much we're doing and how much it's done. There couldn't have been two billion dinars in the first year because we inherited what we inherited, the state of the register as it is, in front of bankruptcy and so forth. The measures introduced, the budget recovered, the results, the money allocated. So the first money when he arrived, when he came to health care, for 2014 to 2018, 176m euros were invested in health care and 46m euros from 2008 to 2012. The difference between 176 million and 46 million, I think it's clear to everyone. You had, by 2014, only the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Since 2014, a budget fund has been established that takes over children who cannot, are not on the list of indications paid by the Republic Health Insurance Fund and going to treatment. Let me say again the numbers that exist. At the annual level there were 506, let's say in 2012, 506 children, 1,975 – 2017. Now, these are the facts everyone knows, which are available to everyone. I really don't know, if you say so, it can go on. It can be safe, it can be more and more, but just tell me one reason why there wasn't one dinar before that, why wasn't there one child? Here, we're saying it. I don't get it today either. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm going to the hospital alone, with no one at all. I'm in the hospital every day, so what you say is that I'm going somewhere with someone, here, ask people in hospitals and in health homes, alone, I go to all that and spend every day in the hospital. We can talk here as much as we want, I don't think it's too important to the citizens, it's what they feel. As for the employment of medical staff, doctors and nurses, I must remind you that we have inherited the prohibition of specialization, that we have come into a situation that has not been given specializations, and our specialists have been getting older and older. From the day I became Minister until today, 6,160 specializations were given, 6,160 specializations, changed the law that you don't have to be at the clinic for two years to get specialization. So, it changed that plus allowed volunteer specialization, over tens of thousands of healthcare workers hired. We haven't got a specialist in the first specialization we gave it took a minimum of five years for someone to finish the specialization. You left that for us. That's what we inherited, that's the facts. Just remember, we haven't gotten the first specialist since the first specialization we gave, because it takes a minimum of five years to pass if they haven't wasted a day of time, that they've all gone within hours and passed a specialist exam. And when they pass a specialist exam, it's not a guarantee, it takes a minimum of two, three years of good work with good surveillance to be real specialists. These are facts that all citizens should know. I think we all really care about something behind us tomorrow. We can fight, and maybe someone thinks they're gonna score some points or something, but the only thing they're gonna say is, that's what's left behind tomorrow. You're talking about the Nis Clinical Center, that he's wearing makeup. When I came in 2014 it was the meadow where the water was, the lake was there. So there are pictures there. And now you're insinuating to me, you're saying that something made up and it didn't change 50,000 squares with modern equipment. Do you resent me for not leaving that meadow, with water, with a lake or something? Really, I don't understand. I'm telling you concrete facts. So, here, tell me, is one of these things I told you, is it not true? Only one of all these things, of all these numbers I've given, is it not true. So, the budget fund, you've tried to tell me now, and now I've answered my word for the first time, that I'm attacking some funds, some actors, that's what you said. I'm asking you one thing, here's the first time we're talking about, is there anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world, please give me a specific example of one fund and one country where you send a text message because they're asking you to treat someone, and your money isn't going to treat that child, and you're not informed about it, but it's going to gamble in some investment fund. So you're gambling with the money the people who invested. How did you do that, how did you make a decision when someone, when you asked someone, asked them to give you money because you had an emergency child to treat? How did you decide that the money that came to you, which is millions of dollars, is not going for that child that you said was waiting to be treated, but you're giving that money to some investment fund to gamble on. Please give me one single example that this exists in the world. Is there somewhere in the world? What kind of brain trust has made the decision not to go to treatment, but to give that money to an investment fund? Is that okay with you? Here, when you get the word, just tell me if it's okay for you, is it okay for people who gave money to treat children, and they didn't know that money was going to gamble some investment fund, to invest in something... But to skip all that, just tell me, does such an example exist in the world? That's the point. Whenever anyone asks, this fund, here we are, specifically, and the profession and health care asks, the people of the experts asked me – please tell me who is in the fund who makes the decision, by the doctors, not to go into finance, not to go into anything else, who is the doctor who is enough for all these areas of expertise, to make a decision where anyone will go to treatment? The only answer we get is one permanent pediatrician. If someone here in the O.R. thinks that one pediatrician can know about all the diagnosis, and I remind you that it's rare diseases, I've given you numbers, one child, or five children to 10,000 children born, we've asked that, and we couldn't get the name of a doctor, as occasional members, or anything else. Anything you say against it would be that you attack him for political or other reasons. Ludi, there's no politics here. This is where money is collected for some human reasons to help a child, and the money ends, the investment fund gambles. This is the news from last night, or since when, but I haven't heard from anyone... (President: something with the system is wrong. [[Disabled microphone.]] Try again. So these are just facts where I haven't heard, since this morning I've been following closely, that someone said – people, come on, stop, what's this, what's this about? No one asked a question, and you say to me, "Why do I have something against this fund?" Well, why should I? I ask the question only – on what principles does it work? And everything should be as transparent as any other fund. If you can answer me. I need to answer one more thing. You mentioned Nikola Petrovic. I just need to remind you of one fact. In fact, Nikola Petrovic is in business and in power plants licenses during Boris Tadic's time he did it all. Please, take it and check it out. Why are we attacking the man who got all the permits and all the power plants during Boris Tadic? You're putting it all over here now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44685	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm setting a five-minute break until the system is fully operational. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work further. Right on line, MP Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44687	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, these are the topics that we all need to absolutely agree on, but when you say that in 2011, there were zero dinars for treating rare diseases, that you now have two billion, that's all good and commendable. But you can't say you couldn't have done it before, because money and money from the budget are spent on priorities. If a major priority is a fountain or a gondola or anything like that, or a New Year's public lighting in Belgrade, from the health of children, then it doesn't have much to do with each other. And you came to power, I suppose, to be better, at least you promised that to the citizens of Serbia. As far as these specializations are concerned, I'll tell you on one case. I agree with you that it takes five years for a resident. In Triestenik, at the moment of five pediatricians four for two years are retired and there is not one on specialization for years back. As far as the Nis Clinical Center is concerned, no one criticises when something good is done, or at least I won't. But when people go down to the center and tell them they don't have to install some sort of temporary bypass because it's gone, there's no procurement done, so they send it to Belgrade... I'm telling you my example, Mr. Minister. You have nothing to treat people. And in the end, what you said, that treatment messages go to gambling in investment funds, I don't know if there's such an example in the world or not, but I'm asking two questions: first, why didn't you, as a state, arrest and steal money from citizens and gamble with them? Secondly, why did the state give 250,000 euros to treat little Dusan in one of these funds? So if they gamble and steal money from citizens of Serbia, why don't you react as a state and why do you support them by giving funds in the same way?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44688	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44689	I'm glad we agreed on most things, that the dramatic difference between one period before and another, that the work will never be enough for the citizens to be satisfied, but it's simply ours to do as much as possible, to keep as many things behind us that are good. There's a lot of it. I'm not going back to it. I absolutely agree with you about this fund. I'm not in favor of getting arrested, making a script out of it. I'm just advocating, here and now, since we have your support to come in and interrogate and prosecute without any arrests, with nothing. I don't like spectacles, I don't like all that. So, question yourself, do it. Let him do his own thing. What the court proves, what the facts prove... I'd like the procedure to be public, because that's where people participated. Everyone was giving money, and I think it's perfectly correct that everyone knows where every penny of that money ended up. So let's at least agree now that everyone is going from tomorrow to the most transparent study of the fund and everyone to watch it and see what's done and how it's done. I'm glad we have all the support. I'll call the prime minister and all the departments today to start tomorrow and make sure everything that's done is the most transparent, to see what's done and how it's done with every dinar. I think it's a turn for all the people who cut off their money to give, thinking they're gonna treat the kid, and they're gonna go gamble in some investment fund. Thank you very much for that. It means a lot of that support. I said what I'd do.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44690	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44691	Let me just have a few sentences. First of all, I thank you for understanding that this is what we're talking about when it comes to environmental protection and these agreements are important, so for both the left and the right, because as I often say what Zlatko is saying, it's not a matter of politics, it's a question of our lives, and that's why the debate can be like this, in this way. But everything that the EU has given us, through the opinions you quoted here today, we stick to it as something that's a guide that's good on the side, sometimes you don't see yourself from the inside, so I stick to it that everything that's their suggestion and objections can be applied to the Ministry and the State in that way, in a good way, and we're totally in agreement, there's no dilemma at all. I wouldn't be dealing with all the issues in which we actually agree that the most important story about the environment, the most crucial observation we get all the time is the lack of capacity. We've been out of capacity for at least 30 years, and if we don't raise our capacities in the environment we won't get anywhere for the next 30 years, and that's now a story about all of us, it's not at all a story about any government, past, present, future, unless we all realize together that it's a matter of capacity in work, of the environment, of who our lives depend on, and of who this is dependent on what the health minister is also talking about, we don't want to have sick children. This is the order of size regarding prevention, and if we don't realize that we're talking about prevention here, and you've been talking about it yourself, then we missed the topic. I, working, and I can't say this job, because I keep saying that this whole team of people sitting here with us and many more who aren't here, we're not doing this job, we're living this life, so it won't be possible if we really don't realize that it's all important, that out of all the details, it's from investing nature protection, climate change, the fund, the polluter pays, which is an unusually important principle, and you'll see that we're going to hit with someone about it. So there's no dilemma that the most important issue for me is quite a capacity issue and we've been looking and I believe that we're going to get the opportunity to hire a lot more young people, educated, because we need a part of the trainees and we need a part of the people who are actually experienced in all of this. So, from what we draw as suggestions from the EU, it is important to know that the Climate Change Act will enter into a procedure in which, like we all think, living the environment, where all sectoral policies, that was the key item of the Climate Change Act, whether we will force all sectoral policies to be put under the roof of the environment or not, and there will be a fight in implementation. I don't think anyone will be against it, but we'll all be waiting around the implementation of that law to see if all sectoral policies will enter into the principles of environmental protection. And that's the question of all the questions, absolutely. On the one hand, the question of our capacities and on the other hand, this is what I was just talking about. We don't run, we don't fall into laws, as you can see, just because it takes society to be ready to make changes that aren't about politics, but it's about the issues of consciousness of all of us individually, and operationally, you know, somebody's better, someone's worse, someone sees it like this, and the truth is that Serbia, as kids say, is "forgetting," when it comes to wastewater, and that's not a question of me personally. It's not my predecessor's question, so the predecessor, so the predecessor, and so on whom do you want us to go, to Paja Todorovic, first Minister of Environment. It's a lack of capacity, not ignorance. None of the environmental ministers were a man who didn't know. It was a lack of capacity and a lack of money. One of you was talking about money, I don't remember who now. So we're gonna be going around the money all the time. Part of our priorities is the issue of our ministry organization as we see it, so there's a special sector for wastewater and waste management, that's this topic that you're talking about now, and that's the most important issue for me, no matter what I come up with, let's say, from nature protection, and I have a sentence here. But I want to tell you that in the meantime, now, therefore, we need over 250 wastewater treatment systems because someone in 50 didn't make them. And, uh, the exact data on where the processing is done is accurate. Waste water, waste, and whatever you want, but let's get to it, and I assure you, this ministry is going to give you results. However, this is not usually an easy fight for us dealing with the environment, whoever brings you to places like this. You're working in the environment, you're the opposition all the time, but you know what? A predominant way of thinking. That's why you all need constant support. Without the support of all of you, there is no progress. We can take a picture with our plans, with our ideas, if there is no support and a broken society that will treat the environmental issue besides politics, there is no progress. And if you ask developed countries, like Germany, let's say, which is my favorite example or Austria, they've managed so much to get out of the daily streams and actually put on a flat, some kind of national mantra, and I say it's possible and we're acting that way and we're trying to make this a question for all of us and for the sake of concrete data we're trying to do what wasn't done in the meantime without any green paint. This means that we invest around 11m euros in the Rasko wastewater disposal system from European funds, I am saying that IPA funds are the most accessible there. You know, we've already talked about what we need in our municipalities of Triestenik, I mean industry and so on. So here's the theme where we all connect that way, but I want to tell you that we're investing. So we're really working, it's hard, it's not easy at all. Anyone who thinks differently, who speaks differently, is fooling themselves. I feel the truth of what we're doing, but that support must now be transformed into understanding both into money and system solutions that we're all going to apply so that we can really do what I'm talking about. So, in Raška 11m euros approximately, the Vrbas-Kula wastewater management system that has been "bagging" from, how can I say, our reasons as a society, that you have a problem in the end whether you will send and whom man will send to perfecting, which professions, that is amazing. So, Vrbas-Kula with about 5m euros, Leskovac's threem-euro line, Leskovac's main collector, about 550m dinars, in this case. Bruce-Blace wastewater processing plant 11m euros approximately. Kraljevo, a very important centre in Serbia, Kraljevo is very important, it is about 17m euros and of course for primary separation in four regions about sevenm euros, etc. I also want to inform you that the government has its decision on the implementation of waste management and that the municipalities are destined to refer their waste to those dumps that are sanitary and which we can slowly use at this point, until we establish the system we're talking about earlier, which is somewhere from the beginning of the 2000s, and then 26 and now we're going to reduce the number of regional dumps. In any case, there are municipalities that are obliged to drive their waste immediately to the nearest built sanitary dump, etc., but we're going to change it not because we want to change it, but because we want to make the system meaningful and from 26, regardless of whether it's 26 regional dumps, we have 21 that will be rational and that what we're talking about is problems in Novi Pazar, Tristenik, King if you want to, we solve the question of where we're going to do it and how it's going to be meaningful, and that means that we're recycling and not burning everything, etc., that we're not getting into technology now. That's where the municipalities support us. There's a part of the problem where we have to help the municipalities to implement some of their plans because sometimes they don't have enough capacity to implement these plans, so we've formed a strategic planning sector, etc. There's a need for everyone's help again, too. So we understand what intensity is, I think, common, and I want to tell you that we're about to launch a competition for projects to resuscitate wild dumps, that question that hurts us all so much. The recovery of wild dumps has no control of these locations, because in our country you have between four and five thousand wild dumps where people constantly even when you clean up the dump, people leave that most common municipal construction and other waste again in the same location. Personally, I think that these locations should be equipped with cameras, as a colleague in the Gerdap National Park did, so now there's no problem with the disposal of municipal waste or whatever you want, building in such places. So, I think that should be a good idea. When we do that, there's an opportunity to clean up all the wild dumps. The only question we can ask ourselves then – what should we do with those wild dumps that are huge, huge capacity, for which we are all to blame together? There is no need to look for that guilt, to see how we are going to perform some kind of remediation, we can see them on the road from Belgrade to Belgrade in some way or in some order. So we have a plan. We're already investing in money, and we're aware of how much we miss these systems, especially for the processing of wastewater. The system and the issue of wastewater processing is a key and first question of our environmental protection, and when we solve that, the question of even drinking water or land we talked about, today the colleague also said, the issue of agriculture and environmental pollution from agriculture is an epic issue. If we can get agriculture into the control and compliance system of these rules that we're talking about today, then we'll do something about it. If we don't make it, we're free to paint. Finally, dangerous waste, which has become a paradigm of environmental protection in Serbia, we deliberately opened it because we wanted to raise one of the most illogical issues of our health to national level. Thanks to the institutions in this country and the services, we did it. This means that on this, one of these examples, even the judiciary gives results that could be expected. We do our job, we run politics, the D.A. runs their own business, and the courts do their job. It seems we as environmentalists are beginning to come to an understanding in these areas. So hopefully we'll do the same thing with the misdemeanor courts, we'll talk more about it, but that's a convincingly important question for all of us. Of course, my favorite theme is mini hydrothermia. So, for me, it may be a political question for you in this House and I understand it, but I don't accept it and I don't want to talk like that. I want to talk professionally about it. Mini hydrothermia is something that, in my deep professional belief, does damage not only to biodiversity, but to the complete biology of water streams, especially when they're not made as planned. I have a serious intention to visit most of those built-up mini-centrals. I've visited some of them, and I have to say that what I've found is a horror, because the question of the biological minimum of that water is being asked, let's say, some small fish that work in these systems, those who deal with it know when I say the pear what it is, that it can barely survive or survive in those environments. So, personally, I don't think that mini-bodies are a place in protected goods. Why? Here, I just said it. I'm ready for any professional and professional discussion with anyone who wants to discuss it. We may not be able to prevent the construction of the mini hydrocenters that have been given building permits, because this is a legal state, but we can fight and fight with the help of all of you to make sure that mini hydropowers don't exist in protected goods, to protect our natural resources and our genetic resources all, I believe that we can. The mini hydropower from investors to the state that allows them to and as expected, controls whether this is really done by the projects that have been adopted and if not done, to take sanctions. The Ministry of Environment will be the pervs in getting things kicked out to the end, when it comes to it. Having this attitude, maybe all my colleagues won't agree with me, but who says we have to agree to everything? So, the question of mini hydrothermia in Serbia, in some ways, sometimes, even as you ask it, may be a political issue, but it's not a political issue, it's a question of the survival of biodiversity and biology in our field and we will, of course, continue to do so. When it comes to the protection of national parks, which the colleague also spoke of, and that is an important issue, we will also wait for national parks. Also, who says national parks are still national parks? What are you doing out there and how are you doing? But until we get into that story, we think that shaming is the most important way to protect our nature and protect ourselves from climate change. What I'm saying is that on one side of the protected goods, we've given 230 million dinars this year, unlike in recent years, and we're going to increase those funds for protected goods. We were talking about Frustia Gora, first of all, Hope. But it's important that you know that we want to increase the amount of resources for protected goods. We mean, like you said yourself, we have to increase. National parks don't have money. So how do we convince them to do what they have to do to protect our nature? We'll help through the shaming. We're going to make changes to the Nature Protection Act, of course, about what I said before. And as for shaming, we'll keep doing it. Finally, when it comes to protection, we in the procedure have 11 regulations that are in the procedure. There'll be more in public. We're working on it. We didn't want to go out too soon with a lot of things. We are subject to court for everything we do, but I assure you, when these topics are at stake, this year we have defined 40 million dinars for shaming. We will continue to increase that, you will see what will happen from Serbia. As far as Serbia's been forested, I don't think it's ever been forested enough and it's going to be dirtier with us. As far as these day-to-day things are concerned, I said, the Ministry is very much investing in everything we talked about today. We're just about to invest. A special story that will happen and address the issue of not only dangerous waste in Serbia, but will address the issue of Serbia's purity at all. On the one hand, the question of plastic bags, which slowly, as you can see, are retired by nonviolent methods. And the very goodwill in Belgrade shows that 60% of us spend less plastic bags than we used before. I'm ready to enter the rigid methods of banning plastic bags, because they've made not only in our country, but planetary horrors, as far as that goes. But in any case, we intend to continue this and that many laws and regulations that will just come to order, and that you will have the opportunity to see, will be absolutely in the interest of our nature, our protection. And, going back to where we started, when the water is out, and agreeing that it's one of the key problems, we're really working on it, as you've heard, millions of people are already investing in all of this, and we're going to help local self-government, and it's good to say in public, that we're going to take this job out for the next few years, first of all, in a way that we're giving them the opportunity to make projects based on which all of this is going to be done. So, regardless of the difficulties, regardless of the very difficult inherited state of the environment, the Ministry of Environment is working very hard to pull all of this off as a locomotive and I think we're still doing well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44692	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44693	Thank you. Well, here, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are at the first session of the regular autumn session and that now some analyst who closely monitors the situation in Serbia has looked at the agenda of the First Regular Session of our Assembly, he may have been amazed by this agenda, so, as my already respected colleagues Alexic and Lazic pointed out earlier this morning, that they are on the agenda in Serbia today, which is facing numerous and economic and political, including regional problems, environmental problems, problems of migrant birds, bats. So, paradoxically, but I'm still going to commend, let me say, this subsequent political reflection of yours to put at least one point in the agenda that is vital to citizens. Of course, I mean the treatment of our fellow citizens who cannot find a cure in Serbia and for whom it is a matter of life and death. So I'm going to start my exhibits with this exact sixth point in a row, and those first five I don't think are that important. Here, I will, on behalf of the citizens, although, of course, I am not authorized, but I am a National MP, it is my duty, to say thank you, thank you to the Government for assigning, which is, in fact, from the RFZO, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to grant these additional funds, because that hopefully will save some lives. However, allow me to express my surprise, respected Minister Loncar, with an interpretation of humanitarian actions to collect aid for the treatment of children. You've identified four groups, so to speak. You said we weren't going to have actors, singers, politicians, and that's what we all are, whether we're opposition or in power, and the pharmaceutical mafia, you used a rather difficult expression, which they need and evidence, that they don't need to be treated by children. You have also made some claims in some daily newspaper today that there have been certain abuses. I'm telling you that a few years ago and in the previous government in various political compositions, there was a procession action, i.e. first arrests of suspects for the abuse of the treatment process, so to speak, for extortion of bribes or for the abuse of some funds, that I'm not now giving concrete examples. You're the minister and colleague of these people who are engaged in health care. I don't think it's good for anyone, not one group of people who really wants to, even if it's one text, which may cost 30 dinars, but it actually contributes from a simple urge of humanity. So I really ask you to think hard when you say, when you're making statements, whether, say, this debate today, where you've apostrophe, where you've emphasized that there's an abuse, that some raised humanitarian aid may be being misused, whether it will discourage all those people who are willing to send one text and increase by 0.001 by one promil, by one percent the chances of a child or a sick person, to increase his chances of treatment. So I really ask you to respect this good will of the citizens, the mass will of the citizens that in some way... Citizens would turn to each other in a different way, giving humanitarian aid. Maybe it's the simplest thing for them to do, via text, because they don't have time to go to the post office, go to some bank. As an MP, I will contribute to the acceleration of treatment, because unfortunately all of us, I have had in the family the case of a seriously ill family member, and I know how much a man who is focused on treatment has no time to deal with administrative procedures, is not sufficiently informed, he wants to talk to a doctor only about diagnosis, the way he treats, and he really needs money urgently. So, I'm going to read what you might be able to read, because this is exactly a letter from the government that was born a few days ago, where they instructed citizens to address the budget fund for the treatment of diseases, conditions or injuries that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia. Here, citizens who are now watching this and who know someone needs it, let me use this number for a few seconds from these 20 minutes. Maybe the phones at the ministry, because these are phones at the Ministry of Health, they're gonna heat up, but that's what citizens expect from you, Minister, to invest maybe some money from some, I say, propaganda activities that you have, some small fund within the Ministry of Health, in large letters, in some daily paper, to publish these numbers. So, respected citizens, if you know that someone over there is required to address the documentation of the Budget Fund for Treatment, to seek medication, patients who cannot be treated in Serbia, because there are no conditions, please contact the Ministry of Health for the next two phones. So the government pointed to these two phones: 011/2656-384 and 011/3614-700. In doing so, dear Mr. Loncar, I ask you not to look up to your colleague, Djordjevic, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, who is together with the former mayor, and the current Finance Minister Sinish Mali, during the pre-election campaign for Belgrade, has made a number to which women who are victims of violence and to this day, ten months after the number's reproduction, no one appears, or because public procurement has been made, or his ministry has first called, and has withdrawn public procurement and that number is simply not in office. Here you only have one machine that tells you – your call cannot be made, please call later. So I ask you that on these two numbers of phones, which the Government gave birth to a few days ago, which is not so popular and that citizens cannot know in this situation, the rushes about treatment or the preparation of treatment conditions, please simply open some new lines. Of course, there are e-mails. Now I won't read them, but on these phones, I hope the citizens can get through those e-mails... You know how much Serbia is not digitized, what the Prime Minister would say, if they were not able, have no computer, have no e-mails, they're in hospitals. They don't have an electronic form of communication, and they can't scan through a cell phone. All of us who have been through, citizens who are going through the process of treating a family member, and especially when it comes to children, really need administrative assistance. This is what all EU documents say and make a big comment, either in Chapter 27, environmental, especially in the area of health, which is that we do not have enough administrative capacity. A man whose diagnosis counts for days is truly in a state of great need. So I want to use this time of mine to commend some kind of non-governmental initiatives that are trying to raise funds for care, for example, oncology patients, paliatical care. You know about the Belhospis initiative and where many companies from Serbia, foreign companies, domestic actors, so to speak, and foreign diplomats engage to raise funds to build this hospice, that house where people with some thermal diagnosis could be treated. So, I appeal, of course, to mention the church, the role of the church, the philanthropy that needs to be cherished in our people. Just this way of accusing, sensational titles, no evidence, no processing, no arrests, why not, those who dare to abuse these funds really discourage the crowd of citizens from sending even that one SMS. So, we have to cultivate this kind of civic trust in terms of giving money to an unknown man for humanitarian purposes, and especially when it comes to children, because factor time, you're a doctor, you know that very well, it means a lot. Let it be dedicated to this sixth point. It doesn't matter that order and our political agenda games, our bunnies. This is where people's lives are at stake and our capacities are at stake. We're not a rich country and our capacities are really limited. It's precisely that time factor that's of paramount importance. Of course, I'll look back at this set of environmental laws. Here, again, one comment, I use this kind of familiarity, familiarity with the work of Minister Trivan, and I know that he is extremely professional for this area, but simple ecology, although he is a painful point, a black point of development of Serbia, on the development map of Serbia, I simply think that in the long run he will really prevent the development and integration of Serbia, the image of some Serbia in the region and in the world, because you know how many tourists who choose to come here are amazed by the state of environmental consciousness. I really ask you, Minister, not to come into one trap and finally say, in the way that even the president of Serbia says, it is such a state of consciousness that his solution, that is, the way he thinks about Kosovo's solution, simply the people don't understand. We really know what the problem is, let's say, here we're talking about migrating birds, what the problem is is that individual producers are poisoning their land's pesticides, their crops to protect themselves from rodents, then crops or those poisoned rodents are eating wild birds, so they die and we end up with a bird protection company that's coming out in public with data that since 2000, 733 birds have died. We have information that out of these 733 cases, only one man in the area of Kickinda has been punished by an opportunite institute. So, he simply paid, how can I say, he didn't even pay compensation, although he was proposing this society to one crane, and there were words of five poisoned cranes, damage claims being 200,000 dinars, but he paid that same opportunite institute 400,000 dinars. I know it's hard for someone who's making an effort to protect their crops from being educated, but it's just impossible to keep on saying it at a low awareness or insufficient awareness of the people, because in the end, these crops, you'll know it better than I do, eventually eat people. All these phytosanitary regulations are really complex and it takes a higher level of co-operation with your colleague from the Ministry of Agriculture. Since we have a limited agenda on the agenda, and one of these agreements that we are now considering is the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of Ecology with the Republic of Croatia, allow now a small digression. I hope you don't mind. I wouldn't even mention it if you didn't mention it on the Ecology Committee yesterday and didn't mention it today. It was unexpected for me that you with such a rich political experience, back in the '90s, would mention the issue of boundaries. I don't know why that was supposed to happen. You are the Minister of the Government of Serbia and from my parliamentary experience, parliamentary diplomacy, whenever we went, I was the head of the delegation in front of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, of those 56, 57 member states, I really saw a number of exhibitions around the world, from North America to our neighborhoods, I saw how many people when they went abroad, parliamentarians really tried very hard to take great care of every sentence they said. You interpreted yourself at the board meeting yesterday, in fact you simply indicated that you were talking to your colleague, Minister of Energy and Ecology from the Republic of Croatia, not only about this agreement, but that they had opened the issue of borders. They said it was an open question, and you yourself said a sentence that I would pray for simply, not just for you, but for other ministers to simply in these official meetings, really as we used to have instructions to insist on that appendix with the designation "Kosovo" that we are watching now. So, I'll quote what you said at the board session yesterday October 2nd – true, they say we have some open questions about borders. So I quote you all the time – let's say, Danube, etc. However, my thesis was that it was just more of a reason for us to cooperate. Now the key line that you said yesterday in a microphone in the middle of the Serbian Parliament – what does it matter, as far as I'm concerned, where will be the border on the Danube? I don't know, 100 or 200 meters to the left or right, I just think that's where the Danube or the sea and the rest of it should be part of our cooperation to protect these areas. Then let those who deal with politics thus negotiate what we will do and how we will do it. So, Minister, I'm really asking you and I'm simply asking the entire government to respect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' instructions, you're from the same political party. You and Minister Dacic and the foreign ministry have issued an official interpretation of cases of disputed Serbia-Croatian borders where it has been stressed that Serbia insists that the border goes along the Danube waterway, as it has been decided by law in 1945. So, I really think that there is a devil in the details, but that we really must, in all our foreign political encounters, whether we are Parliamentarians or members of the government, take care of every spoken word. So, you know that President Vukic recently found that if we get one metre of lost territory in Kosovo, if it matters to him this one metre, then I would ask that the 100 to 200m disputed border on the Danube between Serbia and Croatia be important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44694	The word has Minister Loncar, then Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44695	I hope I understand you very well that we stand for the same things in principle, which is that humanity ends with the best result. I think we agree that whoever is human who, whether it's a text or otherwise, shows that humanity and wants to help someone, I think it's basic and that he knows how he ended up with his money and that it's a guarantee whether he does it tomorrow or not. I hope we agree, that you're in favour of seeing exactly where the money ended, how it ended, to do it extremely, extremely transparently, that everyone has insight into it. I don't think that really, after everything that's happened, nobody would mind if they had good intentions. I think that's how I understood you and that's what you're up for. Thank you for counting those phone numbers from the Ministry of Health. I have to inform you, to inform all citizens of Serbia that we have not stopped at that, that Monday's round-the-clock operation at the RFZO. His number is 0700-333-443, so 0700-333-443. Every day between 7:30 and 15.30 p.m., they answer your phone and take over what you said you had a minimum obligation, or people from the college center, you give them what problem you have, they invite doctors involved in the situation where you find yourself when it happens to you, when you're constrained to help you do all that work. They call on doctors to see what it's all about, call on the hospital to collect documentation, form a expert commission at the RFZO to see if it's in their indications, whether they can do, if not, contact the budget fund and solve further. So that's something Monday, two days ago he's been working. I can't withdraw the statement that I said children won't be treated by musicians, actors, politicians and pharmaceuticals either. I'll tell you how it works. When a new drug comes along, it all depends on how it starts to sell, how the use starts. When it goes down, when it doesn't go, and I have to say, huge money, dozens, hundreds of millions of euros are invested to make a new drug, I want all Serbian citizens to understand, some medicine to make a better result, some to burn the result. When it comes down to whether they'll get that money back, what happens next? There is a marketing promotion of this drug everywhere to make up for money, and they don't want to get into a parent's association, to the patient's association and everyone, to put pressure on you and me and anyone who has any chance of saying a word or affecting something, to make up for it. Why? Here it's the most convenient, we're small, it's a small market, the climate is what it is and it's used. Please keep that in mind, so you can think about it. Don't you think everything's falling out of the sky, that there's information in the paper that this is the best drug that's ever been invented without asking what's the problem, when it's the best medicine everyone hears about it, what's so much to advertise? Think about that too. There are many topics that appear here. I don't have a problem. I'll tell you everything. I don't care, I can't be bought by any pharmaceutical mob, no company, whatever you want. He can't, I'm telling you he can't. Every year there are two and a half billion budgets in the Ministry of Health, find one penny that I've taken. Every year, two and a half billion euros, find it. I'll fight until the last day I'm in this place. Change me today, I don't have any problem, I don't have a problem fighting them any less, you understand? That's what this is about. That's the point, but some people think it's funny. Some have other interests, time will pass, and all of this will be shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44696	The word has a Minister Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44697	Just two, three sentences, if you'll excuse me. Agriculture is undoubtedly the biggest environmental pollutant, and there's nothing to do about it. It's not just a question of consciousness, it's a question of many other historical reasons, roles, etc. Which, of course, I don't call, unlike what you say. If we had to deal with it, and that both farmers and us who eat food and animals, I could say, the manipulations of different chemical means used, it has to. Doctors will say what causes many of the diseases we're talking about, I'll feel free to say that I have reason to try to prevent everyone from reacting together, especially when agriculture is a question, because it's a source, by my deep conviction, of different chemicals that we're introducing into organisms, and then we have consequences that I'm interpreting, of course, in this way. So it's a question of pollution and it's planetaryly known, there's no need at all now to be wise about what to do. This problem usually occurs when protected species are found on someone's property and protected species die. Then that is the question – what is used, how is it imported, who uses it, etc.? And we don't have jurisdiction over that, but we'll certainly be dealing with this subject publicly, and none of us, of course, will stop us, nor can it stop us. Your cynicism that you're trying to interpret my statement on the board is, I choose words, not correct. Because there are precise principles and rules in this country that are respected when it comes to all of this. From the point of view of the environment, it is certainly much more important that everyone does their job, and the environment, I mentioned it today on several occasions, has no limits. And my question and interpretation wasn't a question of interpreting how you purposely wanted to get it out for political reasons, but the reasons were elsewhere. On the contrary, the point was our need to cooperate with the environment and find ways of how it can be, not the political context in which you bring me in, but failed. Anyway, I have no intention of dealing with this subject except in this way that the state has prescribed. We are here, personally, on the question of consciousness, and here you fall into a personal trap with the fact that when you say at the beginning – why should we deal with environmental issues because there are more important questions? I don't think you're right. So this is just as important a question as everyone else. And then behind that, you say that the awareness of citizens is something different, or it needs to be understood differently. Well, you've just demonstrated now that you don't have the right consciousness when it comes to environmental protection. And that's where I'm building myself. Why should the topics and the environments not be present in this House equally with all other topics or before any other topics? Do you think they're not that important, because you said that with your own attitude, if I wanted to conclude? They're equally important to me. Because, you see, today you're talking about health alone, are you really convinced that the quality of the environment doesn't affect our health? Are you really convinced that this topic doesn't have its place in the day that we talk about such an important topic as what this is today my colleague Loncar presented? I think it's very important. And I'm just trying to help you raise your awareness about the environment, and I want to do it just like this. Please understand that. I ask you not to give up on the subject of the environment, because it is as important, at least, as all topics are, and for me, I have the right to say, that something is more important than others, or at least for some of you others. Therefore, the time that will come will show that I am right. Our society must grow and develop, as did the Western societies we seek. They were here 20 years ago where we are now and we're heading for it. All that's happening today, and what you and I are talking about today, is also part of the things we've already seen when it comes to it, and it's part of the collateral damage that we all have to endure to make society better. I accept that part of the blow I take to make Serbia better. Why not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44698	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44699	I would like to thank the President. I also thank Ministers Loncar and Trivan for the response and for the conversation, and that is the purpose of this parliament. So, I support, having experience with temptations of expensive, expensive treatment for which our standard of living does not give much perspective, I support, therefore, that fight against the manipulation of the pharmaceutical industry. I'm not authorized to say pharmaceutical mafias, and really use state mechanisms, but also use mechanisms, you'll say that you may not be a minister of police, but you certainly have insight into clinical studies at different clinics, where some doctors, perhaps in contact with pharmaceutical houses, so to speak, appeal to their patients, severely ill patients and their families, are involved in clinical studies and are trying rabbits to test some medications. You know very well what I've told you here. So I'm really commending and that's what I wanted you to read another extra, even wider, phone, so to speak, one communication line for people in need. That's very good, and I hope the media recognizes that part of your exposure will, in particular, pass it on to the citizens. That phone number you quoted. Minister Trivan, indeed with all due respect, I was amazed to know how politically experienced you are, that you said that sentence on the issue between the Serbian-Croatian border. I really don't think you have a mandate to speak lightly that way -- what difference does it make, as far as I'm concerned, where there's going to be a border on the Danube, I don't know, 100 or 200 meters to the left or to the right. That sentence, you know, if you say that easily in an informal conversation with the Minister of Croatia, it will be misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44700	The word is Gjorge Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44701	Thank you. Dear Minister Loncar, the Honorable Minister Trivan with his associates, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a joint principled and uniform search of several draft laws. It seems to me that we would be back on the subject, here, I will once again say – the bill on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, then the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Croatia in the field of environmental protection and nature conservation, the Agreement on African-Euroasian migration birds of water habitats, the Agreement on the Conservation of the population of bats in Europe, as well as the validation of the Protocol on Sustainable Transport with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat and the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2018. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support the bills mentioned, and my presentation will be focused on the proposal for a law on environmental protection that should initially solve all the problems in the law itself and on those international obligations arising from the EU accession process. Minister Trivan, we are a small country, and we should use our experience in many developed countries as regards environmental protection. We should also raise awareness of all of us in Serbia as regards the conservation of the environment. Also, ministers, Serbia must not repeat the mistakes of countries in the region that, when they were in the EU accession process, did not benefit from EU funds because they did not have projects. What's important to me, I just told you, that we really need to raise awareness, but what we all know is that so far we haven't paid enough attention to the protection of the environment or at least, best to say, had a little bit of understanding about it, and one of the indicators is that Belgrade doesn't have any wastewater purifier, that Belgrade, well, you didn't mention it, just to say, when you said, that Belgrade as the only, to say, one of the great European cities, all its sewerage flows into the rivers. Also, to rely on your story, Serbia is estimated to need about 15 billion euros in order to say, in European, international standards for compliance with them, over the next 30 years. The most expensive thing will be to edit a wastewater and waste management system, about five billion ministers, if I'm not mistaken, is that right, seven billion, okay. So that's half of this total amount we said, which is foreseen. I can't mention here that when it comes to waste management and wastewater management, Jagodina is a positive example, you probably know that. A modern recycling centre was built, a capacity of 15.5 hectares and mentioned facilities were built according to the highest standards and the treatment system also has waste water. I come from the Kragujevec Minister. You were just talking about dumps, you know that from Kragujevac for a few miles we have a dump in Jovanovic and I can say freely that it's an environmental bomb for Kragujevac. But the good news for all Kragujevčana, a feasibility study has been done, not only for Kragujevac, but also for neighbouring municipalities, at the site of Vrtište, seven kilometers from Kragujevac, a modern dump with a modern ecological centre and accompanying green areas and modern equipment will be built. So we'll do it as soon as possible, I think you're fully familiar with it. Now, when we say raising awareness, it's a very important thing for me to point out some things that you've been talking about, which are climate change first. Since 2000, the Republic of Serbia has invested as much as six billion euros in removing the effects of weather disasters. Many sectors have suffered damage, damage to, to say, weather accidents, rains, cities, storm winds, droughts. I say, many sectors have suffered, but most of all, water, forestry and agriculture. It seems to me that not only experts, but everyone warns that it is high time for a more serious action against climate change. One of the good examples is maybe a renewable source of electricity or deforestation, etc., we already have that in Vojvodina, right. Also, one thing to say very important to us is the disposal of dangerous waste. Although Serbia, if I am not mistaken, spends 20m euros each year on this important thing, however, it is not uncommon for toxic waste to end, both in the country and in the water, so in our environment and it is extremely important to pay maximum attention to the issue. Returning to the law itself and not prolonging much, it should be said that it is not about a law that regulates a matter, nor is it about a system law, but it is about amendments to the law in a minor form. What is important for this law, practically, essential changes concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. On the other hand, more efficient security of funds from the Green Fund, and of course, for infrastructure projects from IPA funds in the area of environmental protection. Of course, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the bills mentioned. Now, when it comes to agreements, just a few words about it. When it comes to the proposal for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not getting into other issues, we are just talking about the protection of the environment, that it is important to use their experience in pre-depreciation of the EU, as far as the environment is concerned, and it seems to me that from that aspect it is very important to sign this agreement. On the other hand, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on State Transport for the Karpat Framework Convention on the Maintenance of the Development, it should be said that this Protocol provides for an improvement and easier co-operation in order to develop both sustainable freight, passenger, infrastructure traffic in the Karpat area. Now, here, Minister Loncar is not, but only in a few sentences, when it comes to the proposal for a decision to agree on a Decision amending the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2018. I really must say here that there is no need to waste words about the importance of this topic. Indeed, it seems to me to be one important thing for all of us, and it is of great importance that we have recognized the enormous importance of this topic, that we have at our disposal two billion dinars, and next year a projectary budget for all of this. So that's one great news for all of us. At the very end, the ministers of the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44702	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44703	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with associates, I am pleased to discuss today the protection of the human environment. I'm one of those guys who thinks that's the most important topic. For me, it's also the biggest policy. And why is that the biggest policy? Because it's about citizens' lives, clean air, healthy drinking water, health, clean air, and climate change. I expect the Minister of Human Protection to fund this process, too, so we don't start over and over again. I have the impression that the environment is often considered collokial, put it in another plan, and then simply, all other topics are more important and we start somewhere, we get to some level, and then it stops, and it moves again from the beginning. Be assured that the Serbian Parliament, especially the Focus Group I will talk about later, will pay great attention to protecting the environment. It will also pay considerable attention to the planning of environmental protection funds in the budget, to make them important and to be very important. It is not just because the EU expects us to do so, we know what Trade Chapter 27 means, we also have the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. It's not the opposite. On the contrary, 64% of Agenda 27 is integrated into the Sustainable Development Goals. When we implement both, and this around the EU, because Serbia wants to be an EU member, we will indeed implement it. Be assured you will have full support. But I'm always surprised by you, you say -- we're going to need 15 billion euros. I know it will be necessary, it is a very large sum for this Serbia. However, many things can be done step by step without some large funds. There was talk here, strengthening the awareness of individuals, awareness of what a healthy environment means, which means clean air, which means attention around garbage, which means water treatment. Now, there's a lot we can do. You know, that's where I always like to quote, we need to start from kindergarten, from primary school, from high school, from students, and always quote Uncle Jovo Dragon – where you find a nice place, that tree to the crew, because that tree will grow later, give us air, give us fruit, and we'll enjoy it. I think that's exactly the idea we have to keep developing, that every child has its own tree in Serbia and is proud to be planted when that child was born, and it was slowly developing and growing as a small child was created by one man, but with the awareness that it had to protect the environment. It's because of him, for future generations, and not to quote the familiar things. We have inherited this, better and better quality we must give to future generations. The Social Democratic Party will support your laws. These are small changes, but they're very significant, it's about agriculture, which is as you yourself emphasized by a very large polluter. We also need to take care of it and be confident that you will have very much support there, because we need to develop all of this, develop awareness that chemistry cannot be used without restrictions. What was the advantage of Serbia and the rest, it's healthy food, a healthy environment, let's keep it safe. It's one of the advantages that all those who come to our country tell us and keep stressing, well, let's keep it, for God's sake, let's save our waters, our forests, keep our birds and everything that goes. I'll start something else, talk about the work of the Focus Group established by the National Assembly in 2017, where we have 15 members, where we have two vice-presidents of the most important committees to realise the views of the 2030 Agenda. Right now, let me stress there are no political differences, there are both positions and opposition. Be assured with full support and the presidents of the National Assembly, as well as other other foundations. We have the results I want to highlight here this time. For one thing, today all MPs at the entrance were able to lift these books. You know, there was a little story here today, and I don't know any of these books, so to have a translation of this UN booklet, that's what the Focus Group was doing, we found resources, and don't underestimate, we tried to get every MP, and also through the National Assembly and the public of Serbia, to inform what the Sustainable Development Goals mean, which means the 2030 Agenda should be implemented by all of us. We're running, we're setting up a system, we're doing the right thing. What's the National Assembly doing? Bravo Ministers, the National Assembly is overseeing the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. We'll do it. The government of the Republic of Serbia has an inter-resorial Working Group headed by Mrs. Slavica Dejanovic, who is also doing her part of the job and between the Focus Group and the Inter-resor Working Group there is full co-operation. Be assured it will continue. The interest of all of us is to realize as many of these goals as possible. Of course, we are not a rich country, and we cannot achieve all 17 goals and 169 sub-targets. What is important and what we will insist on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to set priorities, and there will certainly be protection of the human environment among the priorities. That's what's important right now. I must also point out that these objectives are in three groups of questions. It's a society, it's an economy and it's a environment. These targets came in 2015, September and Serbia is among the first countries to sign this Agenda 2030. With careful reading, you will see that if Serbia achieves these objectives, sub-targets, will be a much better country, will live better, and we will just be part of the world community and the European community, which is our primary goal as a modern Serbia and what we do and what we do. Also, we are among the first countries to form this group, among the first five countries, and this has already been seen in the UN and in the UN's 2018 annual report, Serbia has been elected as a country of good practice. That's what I was talking about in New York, and also in Geneva, and I have to say that there's been a lot of approval among the listeners who have been there with a lot of questions about how we do it and how we do it. But in order not to talk too much about it, I think that we are at the very beginning, and our primary goal will be and remains to fund the system, that the system is going its own way, and that we then through the indicators of sustainable development that the UN has clearly expressed, through indicators that will be clear and measurable to say where we are, what needs to be done, what needs to be done. One of these things is, for example, to make secondary education in our country free and mandatory. It's just basic education for now. It is a great goal, but also if we insist, look, be confident that we will work it out, because this country Serbia must have a more educated population so that it can go to that fourth industrial revolution. That's what we're gonna talk about. There's been a lot of talk here today about protecting the human environment. I said at the very beginning that this is a very important issue for us and one of the most important issues. Mr. Minister, make sure we always insist that your ministry has more resources, that the budget is exactly planning something like that, that we're not standing. I can tell you right away, we, of course, did a budget analysis for 2018 with the help of the foundations. It is here and it is pointed out exactly what means are being allocated to achieve the objectives of sustainable development. We gave last year's 2018 budget as a Focus Group of Amendments. They didn't make it. We're not giving up. We will also this year, seeing where the funds can be found, in the 2019 budget, insist that for certain items, after setting priorities, exactly what are the means that will go for sustainable development objectives, where we are giving priority to protecting the human environment. It is something we will always insist on, because we consider it a key issue for Serbia's development. You know, there was no talking here about the green economy. There was no speech as much as we could open jobs through the recycling of waste. You told yourself what it is, and I would introduce every citizen to wear textile or paper bags, from recycled paper for the simple reason that it's one comedy that we're used to, and where it comes back to us in nature repeatedly negatively. Anywhere I've been, and I'm going abroad, so be assured, I'm finding very little plastic bags. I expect you to do it, and I also don't know why we have a lot of plastic bottles. Why don't we introduce a rule that plastic bottles are coming back, that they're getting back some means, that they're being stimulated, because that plastic will help us solve a lot of things with simple steps. I don't think anything can be done at once, step by step, "step by step" we'll reach certain goals. I want clean water, clean rivers. I was in a foreign country this summer where I saw volunteers on a river that's very clean, where they're walking, looking for garbage, where they don't usually throw garbage because it's such a culture, because in order to have clean rivers, clean water streams, you have to take care. Of course, these are all rich countries, as you yourself said, whose consciousness is far above the one that is with us. Maybe 20 years from now we'll have rivers like that, streams like that, and the woods we'll have. What I must stress, and that is also so that as a Focus Group in this House, and here I am telling the citizens of Serbia, we will really follow the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. Serbia has opportunities for this. We've taken good initial steps and be confident that we'll keep going, and I'm still watching things transferred to the local environment. I've already spoken to some MPs. I also promised that we would go to Sokobanj, that we would go to Svrlig, because the bottom line is that we are really in every environment strengthening our awareness, that the public will know what environmental health means, what clean rivers mean, healthy water, because the citizens of Serbia need to know that only 1% of the world's water can be used for drinking. What if we don't have tomorrow? Rich countries have a solution. In Abu Dhabi, I've seen them make drinking water out of seawater, but we need to know that this precious drink of our drinking water we have to guard, because tomorrow we can stay without it. What we also did as a Focus Group, we can't do this job alone from the bar. We have to watch our neighbors. We need to look at the region, watch where it is and exchange experiences. That's what we did. In May, we had a large regional gathering in our congregation. There were 12 countries and be assured that we were proud to say what was done. Of course, I never settle for what's done. It can always be much more and much better, but be assured that others are often in a much more difficult situation than we and their consciousness are on this level where we are, but that's why other countries are far from us. We've never seen those below us, but those who are better than us to reach them with these means that we have and how we have. As early as 2017, we carried out only an evaluation of what this Parliament has done in monitoring the objectives of sustainable development. We'll do it in 2018, because now we have a foundation to start with. And, something very important, we are neglecting not only civil society, NGOs, we are also neglecting companies that are in Serbia and that pay attention to environmental protection. I'll list some of them. Here is the “Hemofarm” which and how much it works in this field, “Delta Agrar” also has experience and other businesses, but what is most important, small and medium-sized enterprises have to engage on these issues. There's a lot more of them. We need to teach them how to compete for EU funds, how to improve their production and how to clean water, how to take care of waste, because there are EU funds for this. So our task, all MPs, ministries and the public, is to make one binding system, which will take care of all these issues, about protecting man's environment, because that's what life means to us, that means something that's most important to us. Why? Well, that's prevention. You yourself know, around the flood, one dinar spent in prevention means seven dinars, later it's given a lot more when they flood. And that's one of the sub-targets of sustainable development. So there are a lot of questions that we can give answers to if we respect the rules and less politicize about something that means better life for Serbian citizens, something that we can all do. Don't just say it - politicians are responsible for it. Every citizen in Serbia is responsible for a healthy environment and every citizen can make a contribution, taking care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44704	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44705	Thank you. In the introduction, very briefly, a comment on a sentence we have heard from both the environment minister and the health minister, that their topics are not politics, that environmental protection is not politics and that child treatment is not politics. And it's a good thing you're sitting down, since I have a notice for you -- both themes are politics. That's why this is a short introduction. Politics as a job has a total of two parts – one is to change space, the other is to change social ties. The environment minister is dealing with policies that change space. Do they change them by insulting them and threatening them, changing them by improving them and improving them, that's another question. But without a political decision, no bridges, no infrastructure, no mines, no oil wells, no settlements, legal, illegal, it doesn't matter. Space is a matter of politics, whatever policy it is. Is the rule of law policy, the modern 20th and 21st centuries, or is it a royal family policy, or is it a tribe policy, someone makes a decision about what's going on in space. And that's why I think it would be good to respect it together and call environmental protection politics because it is politics. For the health minister, too, his question about why children with rare diseases were not treated before 2011, and now they are treated – because a law has been passed that changed social ties in society to make these children visible, as laws have previously been passed to be visible persons with disabilities. A policy that changes social ties, social acceptance and visibility of people. In five years from today, there may be some new policies that will make us visible to some other social groups, less, but it will also be politics. I wish we could talk exactly that way, about treating children, about health services at all, as I would like to see through this prism what tools are in your hands politically to change Serbia's space for the better. It's this ministry's job. In a one-depression sentence alone, I wish we had the Ministry of Sustainable Development. But I also loved having the Ministry of Environmental Protection right away, so they told me I had no idea, so after two years, we got the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I now hope that after 2020, the government will have a ministry of sustainable development, because that is where you can make the policies that you are guarding, promoting and resuscitating Serbia – hybridly, horizontally and vertically and in line with what is the 21st century policy. All the bills proposed by Minister Trivan are acceptable and would probably be on the agenda of whoever the government is and whoever the opposition is. That's where I'm going to add dyspression. It is not the folklore policy considered in Serbia, the language of verbal violence, demeaning and spit-out campaign. It's just the folklore you have in societies where ethics is missing. When ethics are gone, then you have moral corruption where politics is thought to be the space in which everything is allowed. Far away. Like everything's not allowed in space. You can't build anywhere you want, you can't throw pesticides on land, you can't burn pots in the fields, no matter what happens, because you have a policy that forbids you. In the case of what is considered a folklore, it's an ethics that we don't have, so it's allowed, hit by man, it's called politics and it has nothing to do with politics, and here there's no supervision for the application of the laws you have for space in Serbia, when it comes to causing environmental damage in our country. I am truly expressing hope that this dedicated fund spoken of by the Minister of Health will benefit, however small or large, because the tissue of a society, how healthy it is, does not see whether we worship the strongest and most powerful among us, but is seen by whether we can take care of the marginal among us. That's where you can see good company. And that's why the established fund is a good thing, and I hope that there will be money in the future for treating people with rare diseases and for some new cases that we still don't see today, unfortunately, and they exist here somewhere, they live around us. In short, the bill you've submitted. The amendment of the Environmental Protection Act is inevitable and has several questions. So, the IPARD will last until 2020. You, Minister, your associates, probably all the MPs here, and I, we know what it looks like with European money. If you don't have everything locked up until 2020, then you have to have a very big influence to get to that money after 2020. It's not impossible. She took part in a creative interpretation of European rules on money that shouldn't have belonged to us. So, we can do that, but I'm focusing on what the rule of law is, and she says, by 2020 we need individuals, entrepreneurs, cooperatives, who will be clearly informed about how much money it is, what are their responsibilities, how much they have to give, what is the position of the budget fund that you've been calling the "green fund", and it's not a green fund, but okay, I'm not making a question, and how long does it take to happen? We didn't share that information here at the Assembly. So, if someone asks me at home in Novi Sad or, I don't know, I'm going to salash – Jelly, will there be money from Europe? This Europe if it's not for nothing, at least let it have some money. I don't know how to say the deadline in which you'll bring in a sublegal act. I don't know how to say the spirit of that act. I don't know how to say the obligations and the way the government, or your Ministry, will inform any future users and all I know to tell them are deadlines. It's just information that I know they can't be part of this bill, I'm not saying it to you as an insult. I don't need that information except to share it further, but it's just information that's missing. We'd miss it if it were 2014 and we hadn't abolished, fortunately, the Environmental Protection Fund. That information would be missing again. That's information that will always be missing when it comes to environmental protection. To illustrate, why do I understand when you say how difficult it is to secure an impact on the protection of finance or even a view of the world, which means – wait, does anyone want to live here, we have passed some laws, someone to do what is paid from the budget? 50 years ago, Garret Harden published a great book in 1968, which in my free translation is the "Failure of the General Good" - "Tragedy of the Conons", where it clearly shows how difficult it is to use resources in a sustainable way when it comes to human society. No other community of life produces garbage. No other community of life on this planet has a problem with the use of the resources it lives on. We have people because we have our own personal interests -- water for me, for me, for all the woods, for all I care, for cutting off the lime, for someone else, for me, for me, for me, for me. So this kind of relationship to the general resource of the human community has produced all that is now expensive, that you have a natural, healthy environment. If part of the money that we need to get from IPARD by 2020 is spent so that things are fixed where the users who turn to you will be able to spend them, I can only be satisfied and that we are in European integration and that I hope that I have found in you a talker who will in the simplest possible way explain what has to be done in a year and a half. It's a terrible short notice for the IPARD. It's awfully short. They're complicated when they're supposed to give money, they're complicated, and when they're supposed to close the project, they're all complicated. The question with this proposal remains a question I repeat for the third year. Who works in the Committee on European Integration, knows this well, knows representatives of the European Commission, delegations, also know people in Brussels, and my question is very simple – is there money for enlargement in the EU's financial perspective after 2021? That's what the ambassador tells me. He'll be my mother, more than ever. I don't buy it. If the government wants to buy it, then sell it, I won't be against it. But because of the money we're going to need, and we won't have access to cohesion funds, because we've lost that strategy, it would be terribly important that what you've done, almost technically, changing the law, that pi IPARD was used, that the dedicated fund would become operational, it would be terrible to use it as evidence, as an argument, as a firm fact for the European Commission, which will hesitate about the amount of money for enlargement, and for the local public, who will hesitate about whether European integration is really worth it. When they ask me why we should become an EU member, I say we have tried everything else and everyone can check it out. The other two agreements concerning the migration of birds and the regulations that we have already adopted, because Serbia is a bird-friendly, simple, corridor, migration corridor. counterpart Nada Lazic asked you on the board, and that is the second, how do I say, crisis I want to talk about publicly, except for this clear information on how to safely spend that money in 2020. So she asked you about the number of habitats and led eight in Vojvodina, marsh habitats for migrant birds and two in other parts of Serbia and the problem why habitat status, for which it was given, was required, to approve where it stands. That's where I'm going back to what I'm talking about Gareth Hardin 50 years ago, as far as we humans don't know how to use our natural resources in a healthy way, where we were born, water, air, land, everything we live from. Now I assume you have a problem in horizontal communication due to interpretation in other ministries. It doesn't matter at all which ministry, I never say it's someone's fault, I just know it's necessary to measure the system in order to know how to change it. When I measure the system to make something good happen in protection, which is a larger number of habitats for migrant species, I have to measure where it's stuck. He's stuck in agriculture, he's stuck in finance, he's stuck in some bureaucratic series that's being interpreted as extremely important. I don't know if you're going to understand me very well, but I think you have the help of the congregation here as well as many others who run into such obstacles. I know the same thing about the congregation, that rarely anyone will use it, but it's mine to say, so if it's any good, if not, at least I painted what I see measured as an obstacle. Transport in Karpatima and in general the Carpathian region and subregion is a region much more talked about in the last enlargement countries, so Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, Belarus, the Baltic country. They even talk about a new region called the Three Seas, about the region between the Baltic Sea and the Adriatic Sea and the Black Sea, and are very interested in having us as allies. There's a huge amount of stuff coming through here. People dealing with strategic regional issues across Europe see this region as "Three Seas" as something that should in the future not balance and counter what the EU is otherwise, not something between Russia and the EU, but simply a defined region and a subregion from which people living in the Carpathian area would benefit. In that sense, I'm glad we have this agreement on the agenda. The protection of endangered species, no matter how much, I know they'll make jokes, probably, which species we protect, are now the bats, what to do, but it's important that we have more information in the public, because you have quite a number of endangered species in Serbia, even the species that we're very proud of as a nation by our numbers, when it comes to birds and four-legged animals and mammals and predators, you simply have one famous mythical approach, and eagles, wolves, foxes, wonderful everything, fish, and when you come to count them, then you see that you miss them, from Golia and Older Mountains, and to the nearest parts that such predators come to in Vojvodina. So, to use what people hear that we want to protect some bats, that there is simply much more to talk about which all species in Serbia are threatened with negligence, carelessness, carelessness, non-application of laws that exist on protected species, or new laws. Finally, co-operation between Serbia and Croatia is necessary for the region, as well as co-operation with Bosnia or with Macedonia, with Montenegro, with Bulgaria, Romania. And your remarks about the border just stand. It is often forgotten that the Badinter Commission, which has set the limits, has not set the limits on the rivers. One famous case was made between Slovenia and Croatia because there is no limit at the bottom of the sea. And that's where Slovenia made the border case in Piranus. Well, in order not to repeat mistakes, to see what's good about the borders on the rivers between Montenegro and Croatia or Bosnia and Herzegovina or Croatia or Slovenia, then it would be good to, as if last winter's bodies were made for the border between BiH, fortunately, Serbia for Drina and when very creative solutions are designed to be here too, and I end up with proof of how right Gareth Hardin was when he spoke of the destruction of the general good and how much everyone looks at his personal interest. It is my personal interest that your pawnship and your colleagues from Croatia Kopački Rit become the right common good that we will use. Once upon a time, in my former life, there I regularly boated, fished, and welcomed shining dawns in amazing nature. If you were able to restore community over one such space, it would be the best proof that protecting the environment is indeed a policy that changes space, but also affects a policy that changes social relations. If someone who is socially acceptable to cultivate impatience in Serbia, as is the order not to put up with Croats or Albanians and the rest, it is as polite, I never understood it, but I hear people say – so if you can have some kind of business with the same people, then it is a good argument that we do not have to negatively define the other to look better to ourselves. We're going to look who we are only if we measure clearly who we are, so we can change that. So, give clear information to future IPARD users, ask for help for the EU, and understand together that the future Ministry of Sustainable Development is dealing with a key policy of changing the space for which we now hit the foundations together, as well as for the past ten, 15 or 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44706	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44707	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have before us a set of laws in the field of environmental protection and above all I would like to say that the parliamentary group of the Socialist-National Peasants' Party Movement – United Peasants' Party – will support these proposals in the voting day. Environmental protection is a question of a modern society and is certainly an indicator of the success of society. By adopting these laws, we create preconditions to act more responsibly on this subject. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to increase investment when we talk about Chapter 27. – environment and climate. We're talking about one of the most complex chapters here, since it really is necessary to integrate this into national policy in the right way. This allows us to make maximum use of pre-accession funds, to provide public funding, so that we can finance certain projects, especially what we know is the importance of working with the civil sector and helping them to be part of progress when we talk about this topic. The Environment Action Programme was also adopted by the Council of Europe, the European Parliament in 2013 and refers to the period until 2020. We also have the United Nations targets here in 2015, especially when we talk about the 20-20-20 targets, well-known targets that need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20%, increase the share of renewables by 20% by 2020 and increase energy efficiency by 20% as well. We know that Serbia is unfortunately far from it right now, but we are fighting, we are taking big steps. I would like to express my satisfaction with everything the Ministry is doing and how much progress has been made, because this is a really important topic that has been put to a close by now. However, it is important that we all understand the importance of the subject. It is significant that they are citizens, which rises in some way citizens' awareness through different projects that are funded. I believe that understanding the subject will be able in the right way to affect positive economic growth through renewable energy sources. Here, first of all, we're talking about turning waste into resources, with a higher emphasis on prevention, especially reuse and recycling, and we should go somewhere in the opposite direction from disposal to dumps, but rather looking for some way that there is a sustainability of the circulatory economy and a more efficient use of resources. It's somewhere we should be moving. Also, it's important that the priority is human health. That's what we're talking about, first of all, air and water pollution. I'd just like to come back for a moment, that's all. I would point out this topic Mr. Loncar shared with us today, which is this fund for, it's a decision to increase the budget for children suffering from rare diseases. It's very important because these kids won't wait that long anymore and they'll be able to start treatment as soon as possible. However, when we return to the environment, I am sure that the environment has a major impact on the various diseases that just happen in humans. We have information from the World Health Organization that about 20% of people in Europe die under the influence of some environmental factors. It's really a huge number of people, which again proves the importance of this area. When it comes to laws that are ahead of us, amendments and additions to the Law on the Environment, we have amendments that relate to disagreements when we talk about selecting project financing, when we talk about funding the methodology for selecting and prioritizing infrastructure projects, and when we talk about a green fund, there have been some disagreements when we talk about project selection, however, this law will be resolved. Also, when we talk about IPARD funds, IPARD funds, this law will also allow for better supervision and control, which is also important because we know that each of the agricultural holdings must meet certain rules when we talk about environmental protection. Also, the data that we need 15 billion, as I understand it, euros over the next 30 years, of which seven for waste management and waste water. These are really big funds, but these pre-accession EU funds mean a lot to us, no matter when and how we enter the EU. All these funds and this money mean that somewhere our country is on the list of countries, I hope soon, I don't expect as Germany and Austria as mentioned but at least to go in the next period. As I have already said, co-operation with civil society, co-operation with the economy is very important, because businessmen must respect the law and have a great impact on the protection of the environment. We need to co-operate with local self-governments that also have their own departments dealing with environmental protection, and we need to teach them a little bit and organise some training, perhaps by the ministry, so that they can better enforce the laws that we are adopting today. Serbia has taken seriously the importance of these changes and the importance of protecting the environment, which brings us great joy. I believe that soon we will have a resource-efficient economy that will really predict faster growth in the economy and new jobs. Once again, I would only mention that money for children suffering from rare diseases, 200 billion and 200 children, and it is indeed commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44708	Thank you. The last speaker for today is Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44709	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today, among other things, we will have a set of laws in the field of environmental protection, and at which I will remain, most of all, to talk about it, so today we can say that today is a parliamentary day for protecting the environment or for environmental protection. I would say that this set of environmental laws is very, very important and it cannot be put in any other place, third or not. These are priority topics that we must first of all solve and stand in the first place, if we have even a little bit of ecological consciousness, because it can be considered imperative and that is the condition of all conditions. Of course big and significant topics, such as the economy or other social spheres are important for Serbia, for our citizens, but for nothing will be a good economy and other social relations and organised other social spheres, if we do not have a healthy environment, if we do not have healthy air, if we do not have healthy water, healthy food, etc. So this can't be treated that way. It is very unserious and therefore I believe that this and how important it is and even deserves first place, to come to the agenda of the first autumn regular session in the National Assembly. The responsibility of the state to its citizens, and especially towards the future, is measured through a relationship to the environment, to nature, to the health of people, because what we have found and inherited, we must pass on and leave to the offspring for the future, and that is primarily a healthy environment. This is the basic or basic assumption of preserving life as a kind of phenomenon on earth. In fact, it's very important that we work with all our capacities, in all the fields, to raise environmental awareness, because the prosperity and progress of civilization in the extreme line, and the survival of life itself depends on the relationship of man to nature. That environmental protection is one of the priorities of this government has been demonstrated by the establishment of a special portfolio, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because in reality we actually have many risks to human health and risks of environmental disturbance in the event of an unconscious relationship with the environment. Then we have an unbalanced use of natural resources, which also creates many problems, often resulting in eco-accessants, etc. Therefore, the aim is to improve the health of the population, improve the quality of life, ensure sustainable and balanced development. Secondly, an important reason for the priority position of environmental protection is an obligation arising from our position as an EU candidate. We know that EU environmental policy is in the area of preventive action in order to preserve the environment and human health and to advocate sustainable development and irrational use of natural resources. Almost a third of EU legislation concerns environmental protection. This tells us how important they attach to the area and how demanding and difficult it is. For this reason, for the Republic of Serbia as a candidate for EU accession, the negotiating chapter 27 relating to environmental protection is of particular importance. In addition, the issue of environmental protection is a global issue and requires a global and coherent way of working and solving on this plan throughout the country's living space. I would like to remind you that in 2014 when the then Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection was taken over by our Minister Prof. Dr. Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the legislation in this area was completely out of line. From then on, the picture has been completely changed. Almost all the regulations that have received support from the European Commission have been harmonised. The status of as many as 18 projects in the field of environmental protection has been resolved, the Green Fund of Serbia has been established to raise funds in principle for polluters to pay. Most importantly, a special portfolio was formed, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which now treats the areas of environmental protection in a more adequate way and has different treatment in Serbia's development policy. It should be borne in mind that the transposition of EU law into our national legislative framework, as well as their implementation, i.e. the introduction of standards in this area is very demanding and expensive, but Serbia, if it has a regulated system and an adequate financial model, can apply to significant funds from EU pre-accession funds. The European standards for the Republic of Serbia mean, above all, the harmonisation of the law. Further, necessary investments, new investments in infrastructure, investment in maintenance and rehabilitation of existing plants such as water production and treatment plants, storage, recycling of all types of waste, industrial municipal waste management and household waste. These are all through the necessary projects, expensive and investment that we cannot realise without the financial support of European funds and pre-accession assistance. It is the law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, which we are talking about today that creates a legal basis for more efficient use of funds from pre-accession funds and international financial assistance programmes. First of all, for projects that involve pre-financing and co-financing on our part. These are all IPARD projects, and we know well that IPARD funds are approved only after the implementation of a specific project. It is therefore necessary to invest the funds of the project bearer, and these are mostly local self-government or public enterprises. In the past, the lack of domestic funds for participation in pre-financing and co-financing has been the reason for the slow withdrawal of IPARD funds and other pre-accession funds. The problem was also insufficiently professional project-making or selection of poor and exceeded technologies during the implementation of projects, as well as the occurrence of unscheduled unsatisfactory costs. In order to complete these large and expensive investments and withdraw funds from pre-accession funds, the ministry needs to be centralised for the development and control of projects. In order to avoid such failures, the ministry has recognised this problem which is addressed by these amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, which are also envisaged by the possibility of co-financing, designing and their development. Given that Chapter 27 is a chapter on environmental protection, the most demanding and difficult thing is that we can get the most money from pre-accession funds, budgets for the Ministry of Environment Programmes need to be increased. So we need to increase our participation, our resources, above all, the funds collected from the fees paid by polluters in the green fund. Actually, it's necessary to be so-called. The Green Fund will be built as an independent category in the coming period, as an independent green fund that will directly collect funds from green fees. In this way, an institutional mechanism for the use of pre-accession funds is provided, and the ministry should also strengthen its role in project design and implementation processes, as the ministry has greater knowledge and greater expertise. So far, making and implementing has been a weak point. The ministry has found more projects from IPA funds in stalemate and has made great efforts to continue their implementation, worth nearly 67m euros, but has also provided new funds for IPA funds for more local projects worth 92m euros. All this is in favour of supporting the bill, which allows the ministry in certain and exceptional cases not to call a public competition for the preparation and co-financing of projects financed from pre-accession funds. We support the changes and additions so that Serbia can withdraw and use funds from pre-accession funds and other international institutions more and more effectively. In the context of the debate on this subject, I would also like to highlight some achievements of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the current period, as well as the Minister Goran Trivan himself, whose competences are appreciated by both the professional public and the citizens of Serbia. First, I want to commend and highlight the transparent work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. All environmental problems are approaching the public. Consistently and unscrupulously insists on respecting the law in this area. The apparition, i.e. the detection of wild dumps and warehouses of very dangerous waste, is very important, as is the insistence on the processing of the perpetrators of such crimes. The ministry has managed to complete and release a new national laboratory for water, air and land analysis under the Environment Protection Agency. Efficient work by the Ministry of Environment completed the work version of the negotiating position of Chapter 27 and was delivered to the European Commission in June. This significantly improved Serbia's international reputation in the environmental protection sector. A national authority has been formed to investigate the consequences of NATO bombings in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health and representatives of the scientific and professional community headed by the environment minister. For me, as a biologist, of course for all of us and the citizens of Serbia, it is also of exceptional importance to increase the area under protection areas by as many as 83,000 hectares. This was achieved by declaring nature parks Radan and Zlatar. It is now under the protection of 7.48% of Serbia's surface area, which is 1% increase in one year. This brings us closer to the strategic goal of having about 10% of this kind of space by 2020. The professional public and citizens welcome the ministry's campaign to reduce the use of plastic bags and plastic packaging in general, which has a 1,000-year half-life period and whose elements, or parts, are very harmful to the environment. When it comes to international agreements in the field of environmental protection, it is clear and I will repeat again, environmental protection is a global task and imperative of today. There are no state limits that would make everyone in their own way solve these issues without coordination and harmonisation of laws, measures and activities in the entire living space where people live and where there is a living world. It is therefore of great importance that, for example, we ratify the agreement with Croatia and, of course, accept other agreements that are on the agenda today. One might be malicious and in a diabolical way, as some of whom should not be expected, that these laws or, for example, the question of confirming an agreement on the preservation of bat populations are something inconclusive, which is irrelevant, so the National Assembly is dealing with these peripheral issues, etc. It's obviously an evil intention, malice, whether it's about ignorance or not having an ecological consciousness and not knowing everything that needs to be known in this time. What does it mean to preserve biodiversity? It's the entire wealth of what's alive today, and we know it's an irrevocable and invaluable evolutionary flow. What evolution has created throughout its history over the course of five billion years, how much life exists on earth, cannot be created again. What's gone and gone, it's gone into history and it's not coming back. It is a great sin, and it is a big problem that a man as a species of supremacy today in nature, etc., contributes to the disappearance of certain organic species and therefore we need to consider these issues. Secondly, mentioning biological or ecological balance is very important, because all life on earth and the whole biosphere is one very complex and I would say a perfect mechanism that only has the ability to regulate everything that happens in nature. A man’s attempt to overcome these mechanisms, to interfere with all these things, has usually led to the collapse and destruction of what nature has created for thousands or hundreds of thousands or billions of years. Therefore, we have to take care of all this, because it is our duty in this time to make further progress in civilization at this stage, but also to preserve life on earth and a healthy environment for the future, i.e. for our descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-03-0.u44710	Thank you. We're finishing work today. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:00, ask questions, and the minister will join us later. Thank you very much, and Red Star is very lucky tonight. [[The session was suspended at 18.30 minutes]]
