ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49665	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, you have before you the proposal for a budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, as well as a set of reform laws that will contribute to further raising the standard of living, economic growth and even more intense economic progress of our country. The budget for 2019 is fully balanced because it is characterized by a social aspect that is related to the increase in living standards, which monitors salary increases and pension increases, as well as the development aspect, as it envisions record allocations for capital investments that should further boost our GDP growth. The laws that are before you are also allowing for the relief of the economy, which will give it the opportunity to be even more attractive, even more competitive, which will further contribute to our economic growth in 2019. The budget in front of you envisions total revenues of 1.246.2 billion dinars and expenditures of 1.269.1 billion dinars, which gives an estimated deficit of 22.9 billion dinars and 0.4% of GDP, respectively. Budget revenue projections are conservative, projecting a realistic GDP growth of 3.5% and an average inflation of only 2.3%. I must point out that the budget for next year is the result and the continuation of the reform processes that started in 2014, which resulted in excellent 2018 and economic indicators that we can be proud of. I will remind you, in the first nine months of this year alone, GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia was 4.5%, which places us in the fastest growing economies of Europe. The economic activity throughout the year is marked by intense growth, followed by strong and strong investment activity and increased personal consumption of households. On the production side, we have a significant growth in construction, as well as in the service sector, which is followed by an increase in industrial production and a good agricultural year. So it is important not only that we grow, but that all the manufacturing sectors contribute to this growth. The unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter of this year was 11.9% and was more than halved compared to 2012 when it was 25.2%. In addition, youth unemployment has been reduced from 51.1 to 27.5%. It particularly encourages the fact that employment growth is fully the result of private sector employment, while the number of employees has been reduced in the public sector. Thanks to the favourable developments in the real sector and the legal solutions that we are proposing today, which should further dissipate the economy, contribute to the growth of foreign direct investment, we expect the spillover of positive effects and the labour market to continue to reduce unemployment, because the basic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, apart from economic growth and parallel to this, is expected to reduce unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. The foreign trade exchange amounted to 28.1% of the billion euros in the first nine months of this year, an annual increase of 10.5%. The current balance of payments deficit in the first nine months of this year was 1.5 billion euros and was fully covered by direct foreign investments of 1.8 billion euros. The reform processes we carry out on sound grounds of fiscal and monetary stability raise the attractiveness of our business on foreign investors, thus opening a channel of transfer, knowledge and technology, which will ensure that Serbian producers' competitiveness in foreign markets will grow. When I talk about fiscal movements, they're even better than planned this year. I will remind you, for the third year in a row of the Republic of Serbia's budget ends with a surplus at the end of September, at the level of the general state, the surplus amounted to 54.5 billion dinars, while at the level of the republican budget after 10 months, a surplus of 61.1 billion dinars was reached. According to current developments, we estimate that this year we will end up with a surplus of 0.6% of GDP, which is somewhere around 28 billion dinars. When it comes to public debt, it is constantly shrinking. At the end of October, it was 26.6% of GDP. I will remind you, just a few years ago, public debt amounted to over 70% of GDP and now thanks to good fiscal results, we are reducing public debt participation in GDP, we expect it to be below 50% or close to 50% in early 2019. Dear MPs, the orientation of fiscal policy in the medium term is to maintain a low deficit, further reduce public debt, and also to use fiscal space to support the economic growth of our economy. By dispersing the economy, primarily by reducing the tax burden of labour, fostering growth and job creation. On the other hand, this fiscal space, the savings we made through the surplus in the budget, has opened up a space for never greater investment in public infrastructure since 2019. Three basic elements of the 2019 budget. The first is an increase in the standard of living of citizens. The fiscal space we have achieved is precisely used to achieve this goal and the 2019 budget plans to increase wages and pensions by around 1.3% of GDP. The Retirement Act was also abolished, with an increase in the lowest pensions of 5%, compared to the pension paid in September 2018. Pensions, ladies and gentlemen, were never bigger in Serbia than today, and with this policy we will continue in 2019. The 2019 pension budget identified 181.4 billion dinars. For pensions, 563.2 billion will be allocated in 2019, so the budget plus the PIO fund, which is 35 billion more than in 2018. On this occasion, I want to thank our oldest citizens for the burden of the reforms they have endured. The reforms that were launched just a few years ago precisely for their effect have an increase in pensions and pay increases in the public sector, and that is exactly the goal we have been fighting for over the past few years. Also, as of January 1st, we are going to go with the increase in public sector wages, on average between 7% and 12%. For budget salaries, 294.4 billion dinars were allocated, while the total salary fund, and I'm talking about the general state, 501.7 billion. This is 33 billion more than was allocated to the 2018 budget. I'm particularly happy about the salary increase for health workers, cops, soldiers, teachers. The largest increase of 12% can be expected by medical and dental technicians, while doctors of medicine and dentists, as well as doctors of specialists, will receive a 10% salary increase. The other health employees will get a 7% salary increase. Employees at the Ministry of Defence will receive salaries by 9%, as well as employees of primary, secondary and higher education institutions, student and student standards, as well as social protection workers. An increase in wages by 8.5% will be paid by the Tax Administration and Customs Administration, while other budget users will have a 7% increase. So, on average between 7% and 12%, big salary increases, but that's exactly the result of the reforms we've implemented and the fiscal space we managed to secure in 2018. The increase in pensions and salaries was carried out in line with the achieved fiscal consolidation measures and with the maintenance of the strict principle of fiscal sustainability. In doing so, I want to remind you and Serbian citizens, as of January 1, 2019, the minimum labour price has been increased by 8.6%, from 143 dinars per hour to 155 dinar per hour, thereby raising the minimum wage for the first time to over 27,000 dinars, and this will further contribute from the point of view of demand to the growth of our GDP, and of course to raising the standard of living of Serbian citizens. Another important element of the 2019 budget is the increase in the funds that we allocate for capital investments. Compared to 2018, it is 30% higher funds, totalling 220 billion dinars in total for capital investments. There are, among other things, money to complete the tour around Belgrade, the end of the Surcin-Obrenovac road, the construction of the Obrenovac-LJig highway, the Preljina-Požega road, the Moravski Corridor, Kelebija-Subotica, Novi Pazar-Tutin and a large number of new bridges, new tunnels, hospitals, health institutions, schools, kindergartens, anything that will further contribute to improving the infrastructure in Serbia, and raising the quality of life for citizens as well. The money has also been allocated for the Novi Sad Science and Technology Park, for new digital classrooms, the construction of the Data Centre in Kragujevac, the development of the infrastructure of health institutions, I am thinking predominantly of KC Serbia, KC Vojvodina and KC Kragujevac. So a large number of new projects and the continuation of existing projects, so that we can rebuild and build our infrastructure in as short a time period as possible. Of course, from the point of view of GDP growth, investment in public investment is a strong boost to further growth that we expect next year. The third element of the 2019 budget, which we are particularly proud of, is a set of measures to support the development of the economy, which will be significantly relieved during 2019 and thus significantly more attractive and competitive, which is again a necessary prerequisite for further growth in our economy. The first and basic measure foreseen by the laws that are before you today is to reduce the burden on earnings. Since 1 January, ladies and gentlemen, the plan is to abolish the contribution of unemployment to the employer's burden. Historical move, reducing the profit burden from 63% to 62%. Someone will say it's not enough, we agree, but this is the first step where 12 billion dinars are allocated in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So 12 billion dinars less for the budget, and more is left to businesses and businesses as a sign and a signal of the first step that is related to the redundancy of the economy. There's also a new law on fees before you today. For the first time in history, we have a single law that defines in one place the amount of all fees in the Republic of Serbia and gives a great deal, which is the predictability of the same and was one of the demands of the economy that we also considered. Amendments to the Law on profit tax and other laws that are before you I will speak when I come to these laws, but a large set of tax incentives is planned for 2019 to relax the economy and to provide even more growth rates. Respected MPs, the Republic of Serbia, following measures of fiscal consolidation and the establishment of economic stability, which is due to the responsible policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, finds a good, healthy path towards further economic growth and development. It is the 2019 budget, as well as a set of reform laws that are before you today are a sound foundation for further improving all areas of our society, which will have the final result of what is most important for the citizens of Serbia, which is further raising living standards, further increasing investment activities continue to reduce unemployment. In the next few minutes, I will also present to you the key changes that bring the legal solutions that are before you today. It is a set of laws, each of the laws that is before you contains certain elements that should contribute in general, as I have already said, to further discharging the economy and ensuring high growth rates in the future. You have before you the proposal for a law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Security. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to organise an efficient form for the establishment and management of a central database where different bases for the same user groups in the field of social security will be united. The objectives of the law are to ensure more effective control of the collection of contributions to mandatory social security, reduction of administrative costs and more efficient functioning of the social security system. You also have a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's Social Security Fund for 2018. The necessary changes in the approved appraisals relate to the adjustments in the positions of both income and expenditure. The revenue side was increased on the basis of unscheduled surplus income from earlier years, while the expenditure side was increased for positions for the use of services and goods, for the provision of equipment, for the purposes of social security and social protection, as well as for the supply of medical equipment. You are also facing today the proposal for customs law, the reform and historical law that has arisen in view of the need to bring this law into line with the new EU customs law. What is particularly important, what is the main objective of this law is to move to unprinted business, to an electronic environment, to simplify, to modernise, to streamline customs procedures, to provide greater legal certainty, predictability and uniformity of business. It is precisely the primary goal of electronic communication between customs and the private sector. So the declarations to be submitted will be submitted electronically, which will significantly speed up all procedures and I say, make our economy even more competitive and faster. You also have before you the proposal for a customs service law that regulates the work and organisation of the Customs Administration, the authority of customs officers as well as the rights, obligations and responsibilities of customs officials in the Customs Administration. The main objectives of this law are the regulation, authority and obligations of customs officials, the provision of greater legal certainty and the security of society and the country, strengthening the integrity of customs officials and establishing the basis for establishing a system based on competences and values. Dear Members, there is also a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Property. The addition of this law allows capital companies established under the Law on Innovation Activity, one of the founders of the Republic of Serbia, AP or units of local self-government, to be able to use and manage real estates in public property as well as for these immovableities can rent to start-ap companies based on the Law on Innovation Activity. A reform law that gives support to start-up companies and allows for the infrastructure that the state has and does not use to activate and contribute to their better business. Next on the agenda is the draft law amending the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. The basic reason why the law is proposed is to comply with the Foreign Exchange Act. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. The basic reason for the adoption of this law amending and supplementing the provisions of this Act on Games on Happiness is seen in the establishment of the Board of Games as a management body within the Ministry of Finance and the arrangement of its jurisdiction. The transfer of competence in the field of gambling from the tax administration to the Ministry of Finance is precisely the aim of this law to further regulate this area and to ensure that operators involved in this activity are properly controlled. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. The basic reason for the adoption of this law amending and supplementing it is reflected in the erasure of provisions which prescribe the jurisdiction of the tax administration in the field of gambling and the transfer of those powers to the new administration to be established within the Ministry of Finance. The next is the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act. In order to realise the arrangement with the IMF, it is necessary to define the objective of managing public debt changes and be in agreement with global best practices. You also have before you the proposal for a law amending the Return Law on the taken property and compensation where the deadlines for determining the total basis of the compensation which can only be known after a number of decisions on the right to compensation in the restitution process have been adopted. You also have before you the law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tobacco Act and the reason for the adoption of this important law is to curb illegal production and traffic of tobacco and tobacco products. It is necessary to establish more effective controls on the tobacco and tobacco markets as soon as possible, and given the expected deadlines and obligations of operators as well as the start of the production year of tobacco. It is also necessary to start applying the solutions proposed by this law as soon as possible and to allow for greater budgetary revenues from this activity. In front of you, honourable MPs, there is another reform law, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and Fundamental Goals of this Law, which is to combat the illegal work of natural persons in the capacity of the service provider to accommodate tax treatment on this basis, to increase the motivation and responsibilities of employees towards employers, and to achieve better business results through the programme of employee participations such as the purchase of securities of value under privileged conditions for which tax redundancies are given on the basis of earnings. This is a big and important thing that gives us the opportunity to bring our tax system closer to a system that already exists in a large number of Western countries where young people and those working in innovative activities are given the opportunity to gain a share in certain companies. The reform law and this law also resolves and proposes a partial solution to problematic housing loans. Next Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, whose key changes are viewed in the fiscal discharge of labour-based income. I have already talked about this, so we are going to abolish the unemployment benefits, i.e. the contribution to unemployment on the employer's burden, and we are creating conditions for establishing the lowest and highest monthly, i.e. the annual basis of the contribution, and given the change in the methodology applied by the Republic Statistics Office in determining the average earnings, which is published once a year and is valid for that calendar year. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate tax. The reason for this law is that this is another reform law. Therefore, they are contained in the need to support the development of the economy in particular through the creation of more favourable conditions for the performance of the economic activities of the obligors. The objectives of the law are to amend the method of calculating tax depreciation in order to bring it into line with accounting and to reduce the time limit for the full write-off of fixed assets. For those who did not understand this, the most important requirement of the economy other than the single Law on Refunds was to evenly amortise, i.e. the calculation of depreciation in accounting and tax balance. This motivates economic operators to invest more in basic assets, therefore, in new machines, new equipment and thus contribute to the further technological development of our economy. Furthermore, we encourage innovation and promote the position of the debtors through the recognition of expenditure based on advertising and propaganda without restrictions. Next in front of you is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. The objectives of this law are to ensure uniform application of tax rules and to strengthen legal certainty, more adequate taxation of property according to economic power, and to destimulate construction by tax measures without the prescribed permission and non-compliance of construction deadlines when the authorisation is granted and to increase the economicity of the tax application procedure. Next up is the draft law on compensation for the use of public goods. I have already said about this law and I can repeat that it is historic, and the main reasons why this law is proposed are seen in the need to improve the transparency of the public income system, ensure predictability of business costs for the economy and optimal use of public goods. In short, this law abolishes certain fees, the biofuels fee is lifted, the natural gas reserves are abolished, compensation for overuse of the public road, its work or travel facility is abolished. Compensation for the use of commercial facilities which allow access from the public road is lifted. So, several fees have been lifted that have so far burdened Serbia's economy, and since 1 January 2019, they will be gone. On the other hand, we have several basiss for the individual fees we have reduced and all these provisions are contained in this law. The law that should contribute not only to the predictability of business but also to the maximum reduction of the burdens on the economy, and we will look to 2019 and 2020 after the adoption of this law, if you vote it, to further improve it. You also have before you the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee for the TPS Zemun Construction Project, the Zemun Technical and Passenger Station, phase two between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The total project value is 52m euros. For the first phase, 30m euros in funding and 22m euros in additional funding were provided. Points 20 and 21 are the proposal for a law confirming a framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the provision of concession loans to the People's Republic of China, as well as the proposal for a law to confirm the State-Concession Loan for the construction of a bypass around Belgrade on the E-70 and E-75 highways, a bridge across the Sava River from Ostružnica to Bubanj Potok. So, the law that gives us the opportunity to provide funding for the completion of this part around Belgrade, and then we think about how we're going to end up part of the Pančeva Bridge and over Vinca to Bubanj Potok. The next item of the agenda refers to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional arrangement of the basis for the payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for public-paying users. In this change, it is prescribed that the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is reduced by 5% for individual users as of 1 January 2019. The next item of the agenda refers to the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Banke Intez" for the settlement of the liabilities of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", and under the agreement on the loan for the construction of the Alexandrovac – Brus – Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin, therefore another major investment project that works "Srbigas" during 2019. The next law is the proposal for a law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the "Sosiot General" Bank, the Commercial Bank, the Post Office Bank, the OTP Bank of Novi Sad, the "Vojvodjanska Banka", and for the settlement of the public company "Srbijas" on the basis of the loan, or the loan agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you have heard a lot about this, and we will talk about it today, if necessary, a major project next year. The construction of the so-called so-called construction South or Turkish flow through Serbia. A major investment to be completed in late 2019. The next item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Annex 1, the financial contract of the Niš railway line – Dimitrovgrad from 31 January 2018, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, where conditions are being created for the settlement of this section of the railway, a very important piece of the railway to be successfully completed for us. You also have before you the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. Namely, the law on companies as a law of particular importance for the development of our country's economy and the creation of a favourable business environment. It is necessary to amend and supplement with the aim of improving the rank of the Republic of Serbia in the field of protection of minority shareholders, which is very important for the dual business list of the World Bank, and precisely because of this, the objectives of this law are to remove dilemmas, different interpretations in practice regarding the use of seals, to make progress in the field of protection of minority shareholders and to improve the rank of the Republic of Serbia to the debt business list of the World Bank, transparency of interest data, previous employment and the functions of board members, directors and members of the board of directors of the public action society and to create conditions for more efficient realisation of public private partnership projects, and given that they are increasingly represented in the Republic of Serbia. Next up is the draft law amending and supplementing the Banking Act. These changes arise from the need to further improve the legal framework for the protection of trustees' rights, ensure greater transparency of data and exchange of information between the creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s creditor’s credit card, as well as to provide greater certainty on the costs of the bankruptcy process, by prescribing the upper limit for determining the level of advances. You also have before you the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Law and the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to improve and specify individual solutions so far, and in order to make this law more effective. The reason for the changes is for us to be even more effective in supporting investment in our country and thus contribute to further reducing unemployment and opening up as many factories as possible in our country. And finally, the agenda point today is before you and the bill of amendments and additions to the Water Act. The aim of the law is to more effectively achieve the rights and obligations of citizens and meet their needs by entrusting public authority to the authorities of the City of Belgrade to rent water land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of the City of Belgrade for setting up floating facilities. Furthermore, the different distribution of belongings and revenues through the establishment of floating facilities on the territory of the City of Belgrade as well as revenues from the establishment of the right of real service on water land and water facilities belong to public water undertakings instead of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. Dear MPs, this is a set of laws that gives me the right to say that by the end of financial consolidation over the past few years we have opened a new paper and a new book that should be called – the accelerated development and industrialization of our country in the years ahead. That is why the budget is conceived in a way that, apart from raising living standards, wages and pensions and the long-term commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia is precisely that they pay both pensions and living standards for Serbian citizens. We are going with greater public investment and maximum support for our economy, that, through increased attractiveness, through tax incentives, we are influencing our economy to grow as quickly as possible in order to reach EU standards, to meet that standard and to make our country even more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49666	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49667	Good afternoon, President-in-Office, honourable MPs, our ministry has a law on the Science Fund under discussion, also amending and supplementing the patent laws that go through the Intellectual Property Agency. The reason this law on the Science Fund enters the Assembly together with the budget is also an opportunity to budget something that exists for the first time in our country. The law on the Republic of Serbia's Fund is a new law that regulates the system law on scientific and research activity, provides policies and measures to encourage the scientific and technological development of our country. This law is particularly important for the development of the scientific and research activities of the Republic of Serbia because it improves and regulates the area of support for this activity. In order to provide conditions for culture and development of scientific and development activities in the Republic of Serbia, necessary for the progress of a knowledge-based society. So far, reforms of the scientific and research sector have been aimed at stimulating individual and group contributions of researchers through the partial publication of scientific papers. However, the impact of policy so far gives only a marginal contribution to scientific and research institutions and the financing of the most complicated projects. That is why the need for reforms is recognised by public policy makers, recognised by the scientific and research community. Therefore, steps have been taken to create preconditions for a thorough reform, and the emphasis is placed on changing the model of science funding, as an extremely complex and very important process. The establishment and operation of the Science Fund, the Republic of Serbia, is a key point of this reform. The establishment of a fund defines a space where more effective and consistent support for development and scientific research and their results will be provided through operation in order to facilitate the social, technological and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The formation of a fund, whose main role will be to provide funding for scientific and research projects, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Science, technological development, will be redefined in this domain. The ministry will deal only with policy in the field of scientific research and institutional funding, which will provide for one stability in the work of scientific institutions and researchers themselves. The objective of setting up a fund is based on the principles of European scientific and research practice, but it also has in other countries of the world, with a particular focus on establishing an effective national research system integrated into, above all, international research space, which relies on partnerships in the country and abroad and contributes to economic growth, raising the competitiveness of the economy, society is in cultural progress and achieving greater standards of citizens and quality of life in the Republic. The establishment of the Fund and the introduction of scientific – technological development programmes, under which projects will be implemented, will create the objectives set out in the scientific technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia by 2020, as well as an action plan for the implementation of this strategy. In one other part of this year, the fund will become an independent institution, will be able to deal with those projects, which will be in the science and research sector, recognise their implementation and be able to spend more effectively state investment money. It is important that the fund is not only carrying funds based on the parent ministry, but also through other ministries interested in the development of science, as well as companies. It is important that this fund grows and has an initial function through the budget that is now being formed. Of course, funds will be allocated through the fund to the best projects. The Fund will have its independence and will have a directorate, its administrative and supervisory bodies, so what the scientific community expected long ago is now an opportunity to realize all this. The positive effects that will be achieved through the application of the law are the achievement of more efficient use of existing resources designed to support scientific and research work, with a focus on achieving the most applicable research results. System planning and better quality management support will contribute to a greater quality of scientific research. The implementation of legal solutions will affect increased co-operation between the research and economic sectors and the achievement of a greater impact on the implementation of research results with a view to increasing competitiveness. With a new system solution, the Republic of Serbia will use existing potential, such as those countries that have managed to achieve the impact of the developed economy in the long term and show that the importance of science is necessary for sustainable economic growth. By reforming the scientific and research system, a better response will be made to the needs of a larger number of actors from society in general. The potential for the creation of new high-speed technologies will be used to ensure the long-term sustainability of scientific and research activities at national level. The Republic of Serbia, as well as highly developed countries, will adapt a science management system that includes improving the process of setting priorities for funding and managing scientific and research organisations through evaluations of scientific work, namely its impact on achieving new knowledge, on economic development and addressing social challenges. This reform, which includes a new law on science and research, which will come to this House in a few months, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry send a clear message that for the best young researchers there is room in our scientific community, that we want to stay here and achieve the observed results in their country. I would say very briefly that amendments to the patent law were necessary because of Chapter 7 in order to apply certain directives, to introduce clarity in procedures, to better protect people who apply to protect their patents and to gain better insight and better visibility through the judiciary, to make it easier for the digital system to keep records, to remove excess registers, to only keep patent registers and small patents. It means that all of this is ultimately simplified and that our people who do research can have a safer, quieter dream when it comes to protecting their copyrights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49668	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49669	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you nine draft laws under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State and local self-government as a continuation of public administration reform with the aim of further professionalisation and more effective work of the administration in favour of all citizens of our country. Four draft laws, namely the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Sector Payments of Employees, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Employees and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Unit of Local Self-Government, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees' Salaries and Other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or local Self-Government Units, are part of the basis of the reform of the pay system, and we propose to amend the deadlines from which the application of system and specific pay laws in the individual parts of the public sector begins. They are conditioned by the need to carry out additional financial analyses of the new wage system in the upcoming period, as well as to leave a new, appropriate period of time to adapt employers and employees until 1 January 2020. The full implementation of these regulations is very important and we must bear in mind their complexity. The application must be synchronised, all participants must be prepared for all phases, the foundations planned so that they do not endanger the budget. Only in this way can we ensure that the reform of the wage system achieves its full effect from 1 January 2020. By law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government, whose full application began on 1 December 2016, we uniquely regulate the rights and responsibilities of employees from the employment relationship of AP authorities and local self-government units and establish basic principles of the official system based on standards adopted in modern comparative legal systems. At the same time, conditions are provided for the full professionalisation and depolitisation of personnel in the AP and units of local self-government and the principles of work are introduced that allow operations in the jurisdiction of the AP or local self-government units to be carried out professionally and legally, creating objective conditions and assumptions for career development of employees, professional training and career advancement in the service. At the same time, it was important to further regulate the position and salaries of civil servants. Through the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, we regulate the working relations of civil servants and deputies in order to ensure uninterrupted conditions for the award of civil servants based on the evaluation of working performance from 1 January 2019. The reasons for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants are directly related to the achievement of the general objective and strategy of public administration reform in the Republic of Serbia, the specific objectives defined in its Action Plan for the period 2018 to 2020, which implies further improvement of public administration work and the provision of high quality services to citizens and economic operators, as well as consistent application of depoliticalisation and professionalisation of civil servants, the establishment of a service system based on competences and principles of transparency, competitiveness, reception and promotion in service on merit. I would remind you that a document entitled "The Framework for Human Resources Management Policy in the State Administration of the Republic of Serbia" was adopted at the Council for Public Administration Reforms of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which carried out an analysis of the existing situation and gave guidelines and recommendations to further improve human resources management in the state administration based on competences and credit system. These guidelines are also important for attracting and retaining quality personnel through job introduction, evaluation, promotion and horizontal mobility, pay system, professional training and training, career management and specific measures of human resources retention policy. In this respect, the proposed changes ahead of you define the concept of competence in the human resources management process, which involves a set of knowledge, skills, qualities, attitudes and abilities that a civil servant should possess, which shape his behaviour and lead to the achievement of expected work performance at work. Provisions have also been proposed to regulate the choice among candidates in the competition process from now on to verify these competences, but such a system is introduced into the function of evaluating the work of civil servants. This encourages the official to deliver better work results and conditions for proper decision-making on progress and professional training are met. Also, provisions are proposed to improve human resources management records through central personnel records, strengthen the role of the personnel plan and strengthen the internal labour market in order to create a high-quality and efficient base of staff, whose role would be, among other things, to influence the human restraint policy and their proper deployment. The proposed amendments to the Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees are extended until the end of 2019, with a view to achieving fiscal policy objectives aimed at maintaining fiscal stability, leading to a further reduction in public debt participation. The reduction in earnings, the ban on employment and the rationalisation of the number of public sector employees are the measures that have contributed to reducing expenditure and the success of fiscal consolidation so far. The positive effects of the application of the law allow for a less restrictive decision on the need for new employment, and more efficient systems will be considered next year to enable public funds users to fill their jobs more effectively. The last draft law we present today is also the draft law amending and supplementing the inspection law, which was adopted in April 2015, in part entered into application in July of that year, and entered full application on 30 April 2016. The reform of inspection supervision as part of a full public administration reform is one of the most successful activities we have carried out in recent years. The example works, compared to 2011, when the first measurement was carried out, 43% of business operators said that inspection supervision has negatively affected their company's business. In 2017, only 17% of the economic operators surveyed declares that inspection surveillance has a negative impact on their business. The inspection law has introduced modern inspection standards, in particular with regard to strengthening the preventive and advisory role of inspection and transparency of the work of the public administration. The law also provides for inspection work to be based on risk assessment, planning and risk management, and for the first time the issue of control of unregistered entities has been settled. The inspection control law established a co-ordination committee for inspection at the republican level, as well as a co-ordination body for inspection surveillance at the level of AP Vojvodina and Belgrade City with the aim of coordinating and coordinating the work of inspections. As you know, the Republic of Serbia has a lack of inspectors in relation to the needs of all forms of inspection and official controls, as well as the European average. That is why our task in the coming period will be also the plan of hiring new inspectors as well as the professional improvement of inspectors through training, workshops and counselling in accordance with the new mechanisms given, both amendments and additions to this law, of course and in accordance with the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration. We are harmonising with this text provisions concerning administrative procedure and administrative procedure, since the General Administrative Procedure Act, which entered into force on 9 March 2016, has made a major change in the management of the administration towards users, above all, in order to improve the efficiency of our work in favour of the quality of services that we provide as management. In the context of previous activities, the establishment of a single inspection information system currently in the pilot phase and covers four Republic inspections. So, labour inspection, market inspection, sanitary and administrative inspection. All inspections are planned to be included in this system during 2019. So far, training for using this system has completed exactly 836 inspectors. The "major inspector" system should make inspection tasks more efficient, more effective and modern in the field of risk assessment, planning, data exchange and coordination, which is also in line with the Law on Electronic Administration, adopted in this House in April 2018. The establishment of the e-inspector information system requires certain amendments and additions to the inspection law, which is on the agenda today. Also, coordination with newspapers introduced in the Law on State Administration and the Law on Local Self-Government has been carried out with regard to the co-operation of two or more municipalities, i.e. municipalities and cities, in order to make certain types of businesses more efficient. The inspection supervision is recognised as the type of work for which greater coordination is necessary, and we have integrated the possibility of two or more units of local self-government into the law. With the proposed changes and additions, we also introduce new institutes, such as hidden purchases, mixed supervision and others, which are the result of projects implemented by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in collaboration with NAED, USAID, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and other partners. Undercovered purchases shall take place without prior notification in the event that the necessary evidence for a certain non-compliance is not available under the law or this would be significantly difficult. In the course of the hidden purchase, the inspector shall be authorised to collect the evidence and data necessary to determine the facts through direct observation. After the purchase, the inspector shall provide the supervised entity with his official ID and inspection order. The bill introduces a new type of inspection control, etc. ‘mixed inspection surveillance’ which enables more inspections to perform regular or extraordinary surveillance at the same time when the subject of surveillance is partially or entirely coincided or linked as a result of the practice. Of course, it saves both the time and resources of the inspection, but also the businessman. Dear People's MPs, I have worked very quickly to present these nine proposals of acts coming from the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government in order to take another step forward in the comprehensive reform of public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49670	Thank you. The word is made by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, MP of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49671	Thank you, provided the ministers are finished. I thank you, because we're going to take a little bit off the subject of budgets and laws that rely on budgeting for 2019. I only reported in short terms, and I have no claim either, and as Minister Ruzic, to read you the whole explanation of the bill you received, because if I read the explanation of all the members of this law, it would take one working day, in the slightest case. I am convinced because of the amount of amendments proposed under this law, that each amendment promoter has read the bill in detail, and this is all an explanation of each proposed solution. Of course, the constitutional basis is clear in the adoption of this law and the proposal is set out in Article 97 point 9. The constitution, but more importantly, when this law is entered into the procedure, which is even more interesting, when it is on the agenda, then it is a simple parliament, MPs are shut up by the messages of unknown origin, I can say so, because I have tried and invited some holders of these domains, institutions, to ask what it is and why those who took part in the writing of this law, I am building myself up, I am not a professional person or predicate to be a scientist in this area, I am only a promoter, once began to write at 250 addresses, one hundred of them, the exact same text. That's why I wanted to say a few things, that this law certainly entered the procedure. Well, no, people are amazed that someone managed to reach their domain and send some alarming messages and e-mails that really have nothing to do with this matter and this law. Maybe they have something to do with it. They don't have anything to do with it. On November 9th he entered this procedure and at that moment I put the urgency of the procedure, but we all know what the date is today and today is the 19th day, so I can really say with pleasure that we have entered the business procedure and that there is nothing urgent here for us. It's for the acquaintances of our Rules of Procedure. Yes, when it was here in the law procedure, the bill was also on the website of our Atomic Energy and ionising radiation agency, on the site of the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, and I insisted on a public hearing here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where they heard of course commendation for this bill. Of course, there has been a critical review, which I also welcome as a proposal. This law has a content with one topic that is comprehensive, truly current in the world today, and I became convinced of that when I became president of the Management Board of the National Agency, where I was in Vienna twice during visits and working meetings at the International Atomic Energy Agency and talked to the Secretary-General, Mr. Aman, and this resulted in the obligation and necessity to adopt a modern, new law, because I have to say that this area of protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security has so far been governed by a law that was passed almost ten years ago. Meanwhile, what has changed in this area, but Serbia has changed as well. I know that many do not like it when it is said that one of the reasons is that Serbia has started accession negotiations with the EU, but that is the fact that we have taken over the obligations of harmonising our legislation with European regulations. So it's one of the sure facts that we have to consider that the law of ten years ago is very outdated. There has, of course, been a significant improvement and on the technological plan, new knowledge that needs to be arranged by this bill and to remind you of something that we all did together a few months ago, we ratified four international conventions that impose certain obligations in this area. Four conventions, we can only be proud of that, which so far have been standing on the sidelines for unknown reasons for almost ten years. The first time I had a working meeting with Mr. Aman and his team, they asked if Serbia had any particular reasons why she signed something and never ratified? If we hadn't done it at great speed here in parliament, it would have been highly doubtful of Serbia why and what Serbia has to hide in this area at all, in which we group of countries at all want to belong and, of course, when time, one law overcomes, then there are many difficulties and in application, legal gaps that the law can't even now fill, and gaps, etc. In that, in fact, the goals of passing this law can be recognised. This law also has an important paper, which is also in line with international practice, that the Atomic Energy Agency and ionising radiation in this form can no longer exist. The world doesn't recognize it and they only recognize independent and independent regulatory bodies and we made that commitment and took it upon ourselves. That is how this law and directorate is established, not the Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety and Security of Serbia, which will directly correspondence with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It will no longer be under several ministries, which are the Ministry of Education and Science, so the Ministry of Environment and, in part, under energy, so that such a form of organisation neither the European Union nor the International Nuclear Security Agency recognises at all. And, Deputy Mr. Mann, last year when she came here for a tour of the Agency and other related legal entities, she also asked the question – is there any particular reason why only Serbia in Europe still works in this form? Our deadline was until 1 March 2019, but because of our legislation, if we had recently passed a law, the General Act on Agencys, from Minister Ruzic's portfolio, it was impossible to first pass sublegal acts in this agency that would be valid from January 1st to, say, late February, so we would have to pass this law. It's one full legal non-sension and no serious parliament, not even a serious state would go into such an adventure, nor would they do anything just to satisfy some mere form. I am glad that we will be able to meet these European and world frameworks by the end of this year. We got for this law, that to those who have time, it seems they're doing nothing on their job, so they're writing some kind of e-mails to some serious, mature people here in parliament, to say that we did get support from the International Agency in Vienna. Here, I'm a witness as a bearer. They said – this bill, of course, can be repaired. That's why there are amendments and there are sublaws and acts, but that's one law that can be a model for those countries that are on the verge of laying down a regulation like this. The paper is, of course, what will now be in the directorate will also be an inspection of radiation and nuclear safety and security, and this will regulate the position of that inspection. I believe that the application of this law will raise the level of security of radiation and nuclear security in our country and that and for our citizens, because here, please, those who intend to read, let them read what are the obligations of removing the thunderbolts and other things that affect ordinary citizens. We can argue here, and they will agree that someone must finally remove it on their behalf and pay, and so the money that exists in the Agency will be used as extra funds, because we did not get permission to employ even more people in that Agency, so there are extra funds, so I would ask the Serbian Government to pay attention to that and allow us to move on with the removal of those thunderbolts from those funds right now. We also received a letter of support from the EU ambassador to Belgrade, which supported these efforts made by the Agency. I've read the amendments, I've given my opinion. Of course, those who write – they are deleted, they are deleted, indeed, I understand that someone has an impatience towards me personally, so he believes that everything I propose should be deleted and that is so likable to me, but there is one very serious substance here, and I have adopted a part of the amendment proposed by the MP group DS, it seems to me that Gordana Comic told me about it on the Committee on Environmental Protection, some amendments and the SRS parliamentary group. I hear there will be more amendments by the Committee, so I am also in the mood to discuss the law in particular on this bill, so that we can get together a good and modern regulation, as the International Atomic Energy Agency and the EU expect from our parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49672	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49673	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would try in the shortest possible to comment on some of the elements relating to two laws – a bill on the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of the Mining-Topionary Baseline RTB Bor and other law on amendments to the Law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation for the realisation of the natural gas transport system "South Stream". First of all, honourable Members of the People, you have received these legal proposals. Part of those laws are also reasons of the law, so I wouldn't quote in my presentation an explanation or, let me say, read the argument, respecting my assessment that you've already done it. So I would talk briefly about the context of these projects and, above all, about the reasons for the government to adopt these laws and to propose. First of all, I'd start with RTB itself. You know that mining in the pine, Mayanpeka Baseline has lasted for over a hundred years, that this has played a capital role in the development of the entire eastern Serbia, has had a significant impact on the development of the overall Serbian economy, as one of the pillars of the most significant systems, which has indeed conditioned and made a major contribution to Serbia's overall industrialisation. Unfortunately, with various circumstances that our country and society went through during different periods, at the end of the 1990s, especially after 2000, RTB went into a serious crisis. The result of this crisis has led us to the fact that RTB has been in the restructuring process since 2004. When I say in the restructuring process, read Serbian that at that point he was already, I say, mature for bankruptcy, and that the state was protected from paying any obligations and as such could continue to work, unfortunately, and generate new losses, so that in 2008, these losses had already gone to 1.3 billion and remained at that level since 2010 and at that level of debt were met by this government, which, first of all, had put the need to do a number of measures in order to put the giant on its feet. First of all, I'd like to remind you of a few capital things that we did at that stage. First, we finished Topionica in 2014, which solved the issue of efficiency of Topionica itself, increased that efficiency, but also solved one of the key problems that Bor was facing, which is the issue of environmentalism. On the other hand, we have invested significant resources in modernising and increasing the efficiency of fluctuations, the purchase of additional mining equipment, with which we have raised copper production, primarily from our own concentrate. Finally, the key thing we realized was to regulate these historical obligations, some of which were rooted in 1950, through the UPPR, which I repeat, we have arranged these financial claims, defined how these claims were paid and defacto allowed RTB to finally, after a long period of time, break its nose above the surface of the water and start to function effectively and to make a certain profit, to restore commitments to UPPR and to recover commitments from the current business. In such an environment, RTB has no doubt become far more attractive to serious mining companies. I have to do this little dyspression thing. Four failed attempts to privatise, i.e. a strategic partnership for RTB, between 2006 and 2009. Generally, in those public calls, which the Governments, or the Privatisation Agency at the time, almost no one came forward, until the last call for a strategic partnership, where 67% of RTB was offered, in February 2009, for 194 million dollars and 40% for 116 million dollars, for which no adequate offer came. Appreciate these experiences and these failed attempts by previous governments, we tried, first of all, to create a good atmosphere around RTB, to create a truly acceptable framework for large foreign companies, to enter some information exchanges with them, to enter certain types of dialogue to understand RTB, but also to understand perhaps in which direction the market is thinking that RTB should develop. I want to remind myself that over a period of two years, we had signed contracts, or RTB had signed NDAs with 11 large world mining companies, and when we estimated that an adequate atmosphere had been created, the necessary atmosphere that could lead us to successful offers and games of major world mining companies, we entered the process of selecting a strategic partner for RTB, because we have defined ourselves for this model of privatisation, estimating first of all the need to provide a mining company by choosing a strategic partner that will recognise our vision that RTB is developing and that, first of all, we invest significant resources in continuing mining production. We had one completely transparent, open procedure. I would like once again to remind the MPs and the general public that we were looking for a strategic partner on an international public call, that we also published this international public call in the Financial Times and, let me say, in the local public, that we had a solid interest, I would say significant interest. More companies bought the paperwork. In the end, three companies submitted documentation, two companies had fully correct documentation, and we chose as the best offer of Zijdin as one of the strongest global mining companies in development, which has made, I deeply believe, an extremely good offer for the Republic of Serbia. They sought 63% of the ownership for $350m in recapitalisations, with a guarantee of settlement of debts to UPPR, or all those liabilities that RTB, financial ones, still face. Then, maintaining a minimum of 5,000 jobs, with the provision of a binding business and investment plan of $1,260,000,000 over a period of six years with the business plan objectives that are after three years of production, of 80,000 tonnes of copper from my own concentrate, I remind today it is about 40,000, or after six years, from 120 to 150 thousand tonnes of copper from my own concentrate. So, over a six-year investment cycle of $1,260,000,000 and three to four times the increase in production that will dramatically affect our overall economy, the growth of our GDP, and the value of the company itself, so that all estimates say that our 37% will then be worth significantly or far more than 100% that we now have. In this sense, you have before you a bill on the acquisition of property rights on land. The objectives of this law are to address the decades-long problem of object and land status, to enable state authorities and institutions to make decisions easier and faster to address the unregulated status of RTB Bor immovableity. Key solutions: property rights are established in favour of RTB on construction land covered by cadastral parcels in the property of the Republic of Serbia on which RTB is registered as a user; the right of ownership is established in favour of RTB on land in the property of the Republic of Serbia on which RTB is registered as a holder; social property recorded on the real estate in RTB is converted into a property of RTB through an efficient procedure that will enable state authorities to make good, fast and efficient work possible. When it comes to the law amending the South Stream Act, first of all, you know that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the law itself in 2013, that the South Stream project was suspended at the end of 2014. Meanwhile, there has been an increase in gas consumption in Europe, a whole series of new projects that should also provide additional amounts of gas and new gas supply routes throughout Europe, including Southeast Europe and the Western Balkans. We, as the public is aware, signed a road map last June with Gazprom to analyse the possibility of building a gas-transport system from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary. Such maps were signed by neighbouring countries -- Hungary, Bulgaria, Turkey. There's been a pipe laying under the Black Sea. The project, which is officially called the Turkish Stream, is well realised. The Turkish flow defacto project is a project between Russia and Turkey, beneath the Black Sea, related to gas deliveries both to the Turkish market and the European market. The project covers two pipes of capacity of 15.75 billion metres of cubic gas that came out of the good part, the completion of the second tube is under way, on the Turkish coast. That's where it's being built, one part of that capacity for Istanbul's needs. The second part of the spare capacity, which is about 15 billion cubic metres away, will go towards the European market, has already been signed between Gazprom and Turkey's Botas to build a stock to the border with Bulgaria. Bulgaria has already set out to negotiate shares from the border with Turkey to its gas-transport system. Serbia is doing a number of preparatory activities on its part to build a share of the pipeline on its territory. I'm asking the general public not to call this project the South of that, not even the Turkish current. It is a master pipeline from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary, as part of a Serbian gas-transport system that builds and realises Gastrans, in line with the Law on Energy of the Republic of Serbia, for which it applied to the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia as an independent regulatory body for obtaining certain exemptions under the third energy package. We are at this point in a serious phase of activity, in preparation for the realization of this pipeline – designing, selecting a possible performer, the main contractor in case the process, exemption and pipeline are approved as such develops. At this point, I need to say the various logistics that is necessary for the realisation of this law. As you have seen, the 2018 budget also envisioned 70m euros in funding for the development of the project, which is now under the procedure to be activated. The 2019 budget also envisions 70m euros for further, domestic, Serbian participation, i.e. the participation of "Serbigas" in the development of the project, so that at the moment all things act and leave the impression that they are going in a good direction to develop the pipeline that the Republic of Serbia needs to provide for a truly significant position regarding energy security and for the security of gas supply, and for the further gasification of Serbia and, finally, for the profit that the transit tax itself brings to it. With these amendments and additions to the Law, we first and foremost resolve several key issues. In the first place, since we have been defined for the amendments and additions of this law, we allow "Gastras" to use all the benefits of those expropriations and those solutions that were made under the South Stream Act, it is almost identical legal person who changed the name, it is almost identical route and it is the same technical parameters related to the development of the project. So many of those elements that have been defined by the South Stream Act can be used, and we want to use these benefits, especially in Section 3, for which there is almost all the documentation and to continue, of course, with all those opportunities related to expropriation and acceleration of the expropriation process, which this law can pass. First of all, I want to point out that, I deeply believe, this law will put the wind in the back of this project, allow for a quick and efficient resolution of all competent state authorities, but not to the detriment of citizens as a user of expropriation. From that point of view, human rights, the provisions of this law, the additions of this law, do not affect the rights of the owner of the immovable property guaranteed by the Constitution, since the level of compensation for the expropriated immovableities and the procedure for determining the fee for expropriated immovableities will be guided in accordance with the applicable Expropriation Act. I ask the MPs to, taking into account the importance of projects and strategic partnerships related to RTB and to build a master's gas transport system from the border with Bulgaria to the border with Hungary, support these two draft laws which are really necessary preconditions for these projects to be implemented within the required and requested deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49674	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49675	I have been asked by the Foreign Ministry, and I think it is very important for the signing of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of India, for a co-operation agreement in the fields of science, education, culture and sports, and I would only ask you to make a brief reference. The adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on Co-operation in the fields of culture, education, youth, sport and media is creating a new legal framework for the realisation of bilateral co-operation in those areas, with respect to mutual interests, real potential, current trends and modern modes of co-operation, as the previous treaty between the two countries was signed in Belgrade in 2002. The entry into force of this law would stop the Law on Agreements between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of India on Co-operation in the areas I mentioned. The signing of an agreement between these two governments in the areas I mentioned would create a legal basis for the conclusion of further periodic four-year co-operation programmes in the fields of culture, art, youth, sport, media, education, science and other documents on co-operation between interested institutions, which would contribute to further co-operation between bilateral relations between the two countries. The implementation of an agreement between the government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on co-operation in these areas would be without any new financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, but the existing restrictions envisioned that co-operation be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49676	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49677	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, I am reporting on the agenda points that are part of this session, which talk about laying down a proposal for decisions on granting the Assembly's consent to the financial plans relating to the 2019 REM and the change of individual expenditures without changing the total expenditures of the Financial Plan for REM for this year, 2018, and giving consent to the financial plan for 2019 to the Energy Agency. On the Committee held on 23 November, our task of the Finance Committee was to consider these proposals of the financial plan and to make decisions and to make a proposal to the Assembly, given that they are within the competence of the Assembly of these two institutions with their independence, but it should be said that otherwise, they get their own incomes on the market from certain licenses and certificates. So for REM, since there has been an increase in certain costs due to judicial disputes, due to the participation, i.e. the receipt of our regulatory agency for electronic media into global, or European institutions, there has been a need to increase costs in terms of travel costs and what we have actually given our agreement that only 3.5% of the total costs in the REM financial plan have been increased by eight million, we had to give our agreement that they would operate according to the law. Any other step in such a job would simply lead to the problem of REM's work and therefore our task was to make this decision, as well as a decision to give consent to the financial plan for next 2019. I have to say that they have projected their salary increase of only 5% for the simple reason that the decision was ahead of the budget decision on the increase in salaries that the state has made with its budget and the finance ministry of 7%, for the simple reason that they are only able on the basis of their incomes. It's the same story when we talk about the Energy Agency. Their income-based ability is to increase their salaries by only 3%. So I think we discussed these financial plans in detail at the Committee's session and decided to adopt them. So I ask the MPs that whenever there is a vote, regardless of party membership, so as not to prevent the work of these institutions within the authority of the Assembly, we accept and vote and give support to these financial plans. I must say that on the Finance Committee and when it was a matter of budget, we had a constructive discussion in the presence of both the Minister and his associates and the Fiscal Council, and I must say that the greatest interest was now on the Committee. Of the 17 members, 16 were present. The board did last a long time, but I think everyone had a chance to say their dilemmas when it comes to the budget itself. They got the answers. Many dilemmas have been resolved, and I think that for the first time now we have a budget like this that simply no longer has the strength to address economic reforms and fiscal consolidation and I think that the citizens of Serbia have had the opportunity to hear that the 2019 budget will look and therefore I think that this debate in parliament should also contribute to all Serbian citizens' confidence and support that the state really thinks about the interests of Serbian citizens and their needs. So I think this debate, both this week and next, will go in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49678	The word is Mr. Ivan Jovičić, representative of the High Council of the Judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49679	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and concise, I know there's a great deal of work ahead of you, so I'll wish you successful and happy work. In front of you is a proposal for a decision of the High Council of the judiciary on the election of the President of the Two Basic Courts in the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the Court of Justice, i.e. 13 Fundamental Courts. The High Council of the Court of Justice had previously announced, i.e. published, these vacant vacancys which were practically published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", as well as in the daily "Politicals", that the High Council of the Court has established the competence of candidates for the handling and organisation of cases in a court based on the Rules on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges in a permanent judicial office in another or higher court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court. The Commission has been educated, an emergency evaluation decision has been taken and the Commission has evaluated the ability of candidates to manage and organise affairs in a court based on the work programme and talks with candidates. The Commission then set out final assessments for all candidates, submitted a previous list of candidates to the High Judicial Council, which is based on Article 13(4). Law on the High Council of the judiciary regarding Article 70. The Law on Judges, held on 1 November 2018, laid down the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice and proposed the selection of two candidates to the National Assembly by Tamara Radovic, Judge of the Greater Court in Novi Sad and acting as President of the General Court in Novi Sad, proposes to elect the President of the Basic Court in Novi Sad and Zarko Milanović, judge and acting as President of the Basic Court in Jagodina, to elect the President of the Basic Court in Jagodina. With regard to the choice of judges first elected to the judicial office, the High Judicial Council has established the competence, expertise and dignity of the candidates based on the Programme Regulation and the method of passing the examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for judges who are first elected. Since the High Council of the Judiciary and here formed committees to elect judges, on 14 July 2018, an exam was conducted for all candidates who were first elected for the basic courts. The Commission subsequently held a conversation with all candidates and set out the list of candidates first elected, published on the website of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In accordance with Article 49. The Law on Judges The High Council of the judiciary has obtained an opinion and information on the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates, while it is in accordance with Article 50(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on judges for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants has been provided for the same assessment of work. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the judiciary and Article 51(1). At its meeting on 1 November 2018, the Court's High Council of Judges established a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidates for judges first elected by Xenija Ivanovic, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court, proposing to elect judges for the Administrative Court. Dragana Maksimovic, judge's assistant at the Administrative Court, proposes to elect judges for the Administrative Court. Natasa Kekenj, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Zrenjanin, proposes to elect judges for the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. Aleksandar Babic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. Mirjana Mikalski, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Kikinda, proposes to elect judges for the Main Court in Kikinda. Igor Novkovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Sombor. Dara Lucic, a judge's assistant at the Vrbas General Court, proposes to elect judges for the Vrbas General Court. Vladimir Pecovski, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the Vrbas General Court. Vanja Cupina, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the Vrbas General Court. Daniel Kovac, a judge's assistant at the Basic Court in Subotica, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Subotica. Marijana Popov, judge's assistant at the basic court in Senta, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Senta. Daniela Terzic, judge's assistant at the Loznica Basic Court, proposes to elect judges for the General Court in Loznica. Nenad Lazarevic, a judge's assistant at the Loznica Basic Court, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Loznica. Ivana Pantelic, judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Sapac, proposes to elect judges for the General Court in Loznica. Ana Veličkovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Sanja Antić Milanovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Radmila Krstic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Beti Lazarevic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Vladimir Rakonjac, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Sladjana Ljubenovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Nikolina Marinkovic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Ivana D. Mladenovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Ivan Milojic, judge's assistant at the Privredna Court in Zajecar, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Jelena Milenkovic Vukovic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Iva Popović Knezevic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Tatjana Cuckic, an assistant attorney general, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Nemanja Jovanovic, judge's assistant at the basic court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Dijana Peric, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Marija Markovic, a judge's assistant at the Main Court in Nis, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Jelena Nikolic Stosic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Nis, proposes to elect the judges of the court. Valentina Stankovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Nis. Then, Mira Pavlovic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Aleksinc, proposes to elect judges for the General Court in Aleksinec. Biljana Bozovic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect the judges of the basic court in Kragujevac. Jelena Damljanovic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Basic Court, proposes to elect judges for the court. Dragan Jovanovic, a judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Basic Court, is also proposed to elect judges for the court. Mila Lazic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Marija Lekic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Ivana Lekovic Blažević, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac Basic Court. Marija Milosavljevic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac Basic Court. Jelena Pavlovic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Ana Veljović Stosic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac Basic Court. Svetlana Simovic, judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect judges for the basic court and the Kragujevac. Marija Camparevic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Neda Bulatovic, secretary of the Regional Medical Chamber for Central and Western Serbia, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac Basic Court. Jelica Marasevic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Sonja Nestorovic, judge's assistant at the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the Kragujevac General Court. Ivana Ponjavić Serdar, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Kragujevac. Then, Dejan Adamovic, judge's assistant at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, proposes to elect judges of the basic court in Smederev. Jelisaveta Christmas, judge's assistant at the Smedereva Court, proposes to elect judges for the court. Ivana Djordjevic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Smederev, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Smederev. Milan Todorovic, a judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Smederev, proposes to elect judges for the Smederev General Court. Then, Nenad Zivojinovic, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, proposes to elect judges for the Main Court in the Great Plan. Marija Krstic Zivanovic, an adviser at the Constitutional Court of Serbia, proposes to elect judges for the Main Court in the Great Plan. In the end, Ognjen Žeravčić, judge's assistant at the basic court in Valjevo, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Valjevo. The only thing I have left to ask you in the voting day is for you to vote on the proposed candidates of the High Council of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49680	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Sandra Kulezic, the state's major prosecutor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49681	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable MPs, you are presented with a proposal for a decision by the State Council of Prosecutors to elect a total of 24 candidates in 22 public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. At a meeting of the State Council of Prosecutors, held on 22 November 2018, a decision was made to propose the next candidates for the first election as deputy public prosecutor to the National Assembly. Dmitrovic Jovanovic, prosecutor's assistant at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Pejcic Natasa, the prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed as deputy prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. A deputy public prosecutor at Belgrade's Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Nikolic Marija, prosecutor's assistant at Belgrade's First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office. In Belgrade's Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, Jelic Bojan, the prosecutor's assistant at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Uskokovic Nikola, the prosecutor's assistant in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, were proposed. Radojicic Katarina, prosecutor's assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac, was proposed. Zivojinovic Jelena, the prosecutor's assistant in the prosecutor's office, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor in Lazarjevac. A deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo was proposed by Mirkovic Milos, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo. In Vrsac's primary public prosecutor's office, Nikolic Vojislava, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, Karlavaris Tatjana, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Vienna, Vidojevic Jelena, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. A deputy public prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Sombor was proposed by Mirjanic Zorica, a prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor. A deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Subotica was proposed by Maravić Bojana, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica. In the main prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Knezevic Ivan, the prosecutor's assistant at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, Ognjanovic Eva, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, was proposed. Lazovic Aleksandar, prosecutor's assistant at the Smederev General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed as deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Pozarev. In the main public prosecutor's office in Bruce, Radcevic Rade, the prosecutor's assistant at the main public prosecutor's office in Bruce, was proposed. In the main public prosecutor's office in Paracino, Pavlovic Dragana, prosecutor's assistant at the Paracino General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. A deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Despotovac was proposed by Nedeljkovic Ivana, the prosecutor's assistant in the prosecutor's office. Dedeic Muhedin, a judge's assistant at the Main Court in Novi Pazar, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor. In the main public prosecutor's office in Alexinac, he was proposed to deputy prosecutor Dinic Janko, prosecutor's assistant in the prosecutor's office. A deputy public prosecutor at the Zajecar General Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Dimitrijevic Nemanja, a judicial assistant at the Higher Court in Zajecar. Grbusic Tatjana, prosecutor's assistant at the Niš Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed for the deputy public prosecutor. Milosavljevic Biljana, prosecutor's assistant in the prosecutor's office, was proposed in the main public prosecutor's office in Kursumlia. Each proposed candidate in the explanation of the State Council Decision has a detailed working and personal biography of these candidates, so you will be able to conclude from the content of the reasons why the state council has proposed these candidates to be elected to the first post of deputy public prosecutor. In particular, 18 prosecutor's assistants, four users of the initial training of the Judicial Academy and two judicial assistants were proposed. It is about candidates who have achieved the highest marks of expertise and training in the prosecutions in which they applied. Also, it is about candidates who have a long-standing internship in the area of criminal law, and for 19 years over five years, they have been interned as co-workers under a court trial, and four of them have been interned as prosecutors after a judicial trial. In short, only the principles that the State Council has led in proposing precisely these candidates. Since a large number of candidates applying for competitions for the selection of deputy public prosecutors carry out maximum evaluations in the evaluation of expertise and training in the examination conducted by the State Council in accordance with the Law and the Rules on how to pass the exams of candidates first elected, the State's Chief Prosecutors in the subsequent selection between candidates who achieved equal assessments of expertise and training took special care of the opinions delivered by the public prosecutors, courts, i.e. the Judicial Academy, on professionalism and training in the work, then on the work experience in the area of criminal law, and we also took account of the representation of all the groups that applied to this contest. In the end, since the State's Chief Prosecutors gave faith to these candidates and we are confident that in the future they will justify our trust, I invite you to vote in the day of voting for all candidates proposed by the State's greater prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49682	Thank you. Do any of the promoters or authorised representatives of the motionor want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I want to thank you for the projection of the budget, for the draft budget we have received. I'm going to touch this extravagant part. We are particularly pleased that interest fell, which is evident that in a little more than a year interest rate from 133 billion dropped to 103, that's 30 billion less than a year and a half ago, which shows that the country is deleveraging and that the loans that this government is taking are on more favourable interest, and more favourable interest comes because of the country's better rating. For this reason, I would also like to point out, as I would like to point out, that despite the increase in pensions for the next year, the amount of transfers to the PIO Fund falls to 181 billion, that is 22 billion less than it was just over a year ago. This shows that the number of workers, and to remind you that public sector employment is limited, if not completely prohibited, it shows that contributions to PIOs that are paid at higher levels than they were two years ago, and far more than they were six years ago. This clearly shows that the number of employees has been increased and that these unfortunate workers who fired 400,000 workers and reduced the number of insurance workers can be convinced that by hiring more than tens of thousands of people, we have increased the number of insurance companies in PIO funds and thus contributed to the increase of production and that this budget is the result of the money earned, there are no excessive loans that would be financed by the deficit. So we had the right to use 3%, which is normal in the EU, to make the deficit 3% of gross domestic product, so we could spend more than a billion euros, a billion and a half euros, but the government didn't want to, it balanced the budget, and it should certainly be pointed out, especially in the agrarian part. Let me remind you that in 2012, these lucky people who talk that we don't single out enough for agriculture totaled 43 billion for the Ministry of Agriculture in 2012. Let me remind you that these were two ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade. So, the two ministries have singled out 49 billion, now only the Ministry of Agriculture uses 51 billion and 776 million, which is an increase of almost 10%, but with those two ministries, and this is just one. As for the incentives for subsidies in 2012, I say the same thing because of these happy ones who want to say that they have more subsidized agriculture, a total of 19 billion 945 million dinars were allocated for subsidies, 41 billion and 580 million are planned for next year. Which is more than double, so that's an increase of almost 115% and that should definitely be pointed out. It should also be noted that last year subsidies amounted to 34 billion 315, and now 41 billion and 580. Seven billion and 600 more is the increase compared to last year, and from the time that Vuk, Gilas, Borko Stefanovic and others, when they boasted of citizens, when the deficit was nearly two billion, they didn't want to finance agriculture either, the increase was 115%, 19 billion 945 million was in 2012, and now it's 41 billion and 580, and that's 22 billion more than they singled out, or 110 to 115%. So I want to thank the finance minister, to thank all those who have contributed to what the Committee has asked for five billion, for them to understand and increase it. We were satisfied and at five, we were looking for a little more and we got a lot more than we asked for, and I want to point out that since we're here all the time listening to complaints about how we're not singled out for agriculture, than those who singled out more than twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49684	Thank you. Does the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49685	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act, the draft budget law for 2019, as well as the accompanying financial laws and other laws that are on the agenda. Methodology and planned budget items are balanced and realistic. Simply put, the finances were put under control. Thanks to balanced fiscal consolidation measures, a fiscal space has been created that will be used in 2019 to increase capital investments, abolish crisis pensions, raise public sector wages, reduce tax burdens. The resources set out in the 2019 budget aim to relieve the economy and promote its growth, increase living standards and naturally capital investments. Also, a stable inflow of foreign direct investment with the reform of the education system, support for social entrepreneurship, commodity budgeting and raising the minimum labour price, all of which we support as measures aimed at economic development, poverty reduction and even regional development. The SVM parliamentary group is a position that we cannot talk about equal regional development or poverty reduction unless adequate representation of members of national minorities is provided in employment. Namely, the SVM parliamentary group submitted three amendments to the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants with the aim of ensuring the proper representation of national minorities in the employment of state authorities in the manner that this was regulated by the Law on Public Service Employees, the Law on Employees of the AP and Local Self-Government Units and the Law on Public Agencyes. In that sense, we hope that the government will accept our amendments. Of course, on the basis of an agreement with Mr. Ruzic and we also thank him for his professional and fair co-operation. Just a few more sentences on the importance of even regional development. A number of objections from the field and from units of local self-government point out the need to adopt a new regulation on the establishment of a single list of regional development and units of local self-government. On a change in methodology, on the basis of which the degree of development of units of local self-government is calculated. The problem is, because the biggest incentive is that funds are received by those investors investing in municipalities that are classified to a higher level of development, while investors who would invest in municipalities that are categorized to larger categories receive smaller funds. The example works on the territory of the municipality I come from, from the municipality of Senta, the investor wanted to open a new factory, a company and compared Senta and Kickinda. Senta is in the first category, and Kikinda in the third category of this ranking and unfortunately per worker turned out to get not a few hundred euros but more than 1,000 euros per worker if she opens a factory in Kikinda. That is why what other units of local self-government think is necessary, it is necessary to bring the methodology into line with real life, because about 50% of the Vojvodina municipalities are thus losing their ability to participate in various competitions. The regulation laying down a single list of regional development and local self-government units was last adopted in 2014. The measures to ensure an increase in living standards are amendments to the Budgetary System Act, which allows public sector wages to be increased in 2019. It is a 7% to 12% gap and will begin from 1 January 2019. The increase in these salaries depends on who works, in which sector, so health gets the most, if we watch, defense, education and police get a little less, and customs and tax authorities, tax workers and other users get about 7%. It should be pointed out here that the extension of the ban on employment by the users of public funds by the end of 2019 has been extended. This law on the ground creates major problems especially with health institutions and local self - government authorities. There's a mass story about showing up in the north of Vojvodina, that mass outflow of specialist doctors, nurses. We've almost gotten to the point where we can't find health care personnel to work. It is that the unemployment rate is falling, but it should also be pointed out here that this is affected by a very massive and labour migration abroad. We're positively assessing the salary increase, because we know that financial conditions allow so much, but we think that this brain drain and the professional force can only slow down, and they can't stop it. As for capital investments in the budget, we see a total of 220 billion dinars. We positively estimate that infrastructure investment is at that level as it was this year, perhaps slightly increased. Because, I think, or we think that these investments are the basis for the further development of our economy. As regards redundancies of the economy, amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, it provides for a less fiscal burden of income generated by natural persons on the basis of work and reduces operating costs for employers and other payers of income. These changes reduced the contribution rate for unemployment insurance from 1.5% to 0.75%. Based on the reduced rate of contribution, the net effect on the fiscal score is estimated at around nine billion dinars. In fact, the tax burden of the average net salary is reduced from 63% to 62%, and savings for the total economy, as we heard it was about 12 billion dinars. It is foreseen to amend the Tax on Profits Act one reduction, as regards taxpayers' obligations through changes in the way of accounting depreciation. But these effects, I think, will only bring results in 2020. Since we have a new finance minister, I would say that if we look at the stenographic notes from the National Assembly session, which discusses the proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it would immediately be seen that in the last ten years, all of the SVM parliamentary groups are being addressed, without distinction, starting with the same words. We point out that the policy, standards and criteria and transfers of the appropriations of the AP Vojvodina, has not yet been passed a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Risking, I repeat, that the constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established that the deadline for the alignment of all legal acts with the Constitution was 31 December 2008. But what wise men would say is patience is power. With time and patience and a dud leaf becomes silk. As regards the solution to the 2019 draft budget law for the SVM parliamentary group, as Mr Risticevic said, the budget for the subsidy to agriculture is 41.5 billion dinars, which is seven billion dinars more than this year. A large share of the funds or the increase in these funds are from IPA two programmes which we also positively estimate that our farmers compete on this project. Part of these funds is designed to build a irrigation system on the territory of Vojvodina, and that's about 362 million dinars. And we're giving her a positive assessment. If we are talking about Vojvodina, then I would point out that the total transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the province is now 65.5 billion dinar, which is bigger than it was last year. The budget sets out several projects that are important for our parliamentary group, as we see, funds for the construction and construction of the National Theatre in Subotica at 330 million dinars this year. In the past year and a half, there have been some problems with this job, as jobs have been blocked due to problems in the public procurement process, but this year in July, a new performer has been elected, and the work has now started to run regularly again. These works are expected to be completed in the first half of 2020. Another project, which I must point out, is the construction of works on the E75 highway and that is the share of the border crossing of the "Celebia" loop "Sabotica Jug", we call it "Epislon Krak". Here, for these capital investments, a billion and 400 million dinars have been allocated, which is 400 million more than in the previous year. In May, the employees of Voputa started a new section, building a section of the Sudotica bypass on the move between the highway to Backo Topoli and the Bikola road. These papers are planned to be completed in 240 days, and we hope that that will happen. This is about a 15-year-old asphalt background, once again we need to establish new dikes leading to two overpasses, one via Subotica – Belgrade, and the other via the Chantavi road. I have to point out for the citizens of Subotica, "ipislon Krak" is of vital importance because they need to remove cargo traffic from the city center, which connects the northern part of the Corridor 10 highway to the Kelebija border crossing. This is about urban traffic, about 350,000 heavy trucks passing this way. A large project called the so-called project. Serbian-Hungarian railways also received nine billion 700m dinars in budget design. Since we have a budget planned, in 2020 almost the same figure is foreseen for that year, and for the next year about 11 billion and 700 million dinars are scheduled for this big project. There are several projects that need to be pointed out here that are related to the reconstruction of railway lines. It is a railway between Saturday and Segedin and within the project of the Serbian Hungarian railway, part of Novi Sad – Subotica, such as here, I should point out another railway that is smaller, but it is very important for us from Subotica to Sainta, because this railway is foreseen in this part of the budget. The SVM Group's year-long efforts have resulted in the fact that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government for the National Minority Budget has defined 30 million dinars for the next year, and for the work and functioning of the National Minority Council 286,5 million dinars. Here I should further point out that the Ministry of Culture and Information has defined support for informing national minorities in the native language of 40 million dinars. The Ministry of Culture, I'm sorry, is still foreseen here in the budget, and that's quite important to us, continues to build a 550 million dinar Radio Television, and 900 million dinars are foreseen to finance the operation of RTV. We still have a few projects that I would like to present, such as the Željev Bridge, the New Sad Science and Technology Park, and all these projects are as I said at the beginning, and this is why SVM MPs will vote for these laws that are on the agenda. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49686	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49687	Thank you very much. And the finance minister is here, so we can get started. We heard impressive opening statements, which, of course, show the situation in Serbia in very bright pink colors. Practically, here is to quote something where GDP growth is the largest in Europe, that unemployment is half the size of five years ago, that surplus is the third year in a row, that public debt is reduced, that wages and pensions are the largest in history, that we have a huge reduction in salary tax by 1% and that we are on the road, that was one of the last sentences of the finance minister, on the way to reaching EU standards soon, I quote. Then we heard from Minister Antić that, as I understand it, about 100 million, 70 million were invested for the projects, and not one meter was done, except for the 30 meters Toma Nikolic opened a few years ago, somewhere up in Vojvodina. I don't know if anyone's guarding that pipe or being taken away for any better purposes? Maybe that pipe was made of that Nightingale somewhere in Belgrade in the color of the Serbian flag. Of course, it's not a situation, and it's a continuation, some evil ones would say, lies emanating from this power, and I'd say, untruths heard from this authority. GDP growth in Serbia has been the smallest in the region since the coalition that holds power today took over. So, the smallest. Romania has a growth that is five times bigger than Serbia. Something called Kosovo has twice as much. Croatia has almost twice the size and that is the fundamental truth. They say we have the biggest unemployment drop in six years of this government, which is another untrue. That unemployment, that percentage of twenty-one percent, 23% - 24% which are now reportedly down to 11%, which is not true by our statistics, because it's still 13%, is the result of the change in the methodology of statistics and the consequence that these six years half a million people, with young people, have left the country. Well, probably one good part of those people was reported to the Labour Bureau. It is realistic that the number of unemployed is reduced by about 100,000, now about 650 to 700 thousand people, and six years ago that figure was 850,000. Well, that could be a decrease of about 17% - 18%, the most optimistic, and not half. Statistics aren't easy. No matter who runs the Department of Statistics, who reads the data, you can't lie to yourself, or yourself, but you can't keep people who can read and deal with the basic account. A surplus - this is the only government in the world that boasts of surpluses. A party economist, meaning a party for economists, not a doctor of economic sciences under suspicion of a doctorate, knows that surplus and deficit are the same evil. No one in the world boasts about surpluses. The surplus isn't due to anything good. A surplus could be the result of bad planning, so if you didn't know how to plan, it would surprise you. It could be the result of over-action by taxpayers, which reduces their standard or, the third option, can be the consequence that the state has not done what its job is, whether it's investments, social contributions or something else, and then it remains more than planned for you. No one boasts about surpluses. The budget is designed to be balanced. The ideal variant is zero, no deficits, no surpluses, but no one in their right mind boasts of surpluses. Sometimes the deficit is planned because you have to get into some investments that in some future period, in five, 10, 15 years, these investments will give you back something, so that in future generations you have more revenue for the budget. No one plans a surplus in the budget. There is no country in the world that does it except in Serbia. Of course, when you repeat it in the media, which is a loud cell of one or several parties, then, of course, one large number of people, not because they have a flaw, but because they're layers, people don't normally do economics in any country, or even here, then someone comes to the brink of thinking it's true, and then turn off that TV, and then open up their refrigerator, or their dressing room, or their passport, or their memories of flying that they don't have, or their own tank, or when they could host the guests in the right way, or buy a birthday present for his needs, and then see that the truth is in the fridge, in the closet, in the memories and in reality, and not in that television, which is in this set of these laws. Here, so the viewers don't think there's something selling around here a kilo. This, dear viewers, dear citizens of Serbia, is today's agenda – over 3,000 pages. That's what these smart people wrote and gave us on Saturday to read and defend it to you today, because we are here because of you, not because of the government that sometimes comes to parliament and they are welcome, even when they bring a bunch of these frauds and lies. So none of this except the technique you have in every law. Even in the Budget Law, you have a technical part that's always the same, so whether Fascism, Communism, democracy or something in between. One part, simply, is the theme. But on the other hand, the budget is a picture of the policy of one government – what the government has as its priority, what is most important for that authority. Here, as I understand it, the most important part in this budget is the increase in the salary of soldiers and police officers. They have small salaries, that's true, but I doubt this is an increase in their salaries initiated by the government's concern for their standard. I'm afraid it was initiated by the government's fear that the police and that authority would be needed as one similar government in 2000. Let me remind you, that was 18 years ago, it didn't help. A dictator, a dictatorship, a crime and a lie cannot be defended with either the police or the military. Of course, in both the military and the police there are 95% of the honest people who won't do it, not even for this poor money. He says we'll get the EU standard tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. We are at the beginning of the list of countries which, when looking at the percentage of the achievement of standards compared to the EU, are now based on data, of course, from real sources, at 37%. Anyone of the economists who can show their diploma, no matter what it may be or not be ashamed of her, even subconsciously, knows that for the serious development of Serbia in the situation in which we are, after everything that's been happening to us, I think about Tito's socialism, not only what was in the 1990s, we need growth, double-digit growth in the next ten years, to have a chance to reach Slovakia, which began 15-20 years ago from the Black Treva position compared to Serbia's then, without insulting the Black Grass, but the Black Grass at economic potential. Our GDP is several times smaller than the same product in Slovakia, and Slovakia is almost three times smaller than Serbia. Croatia has twice as much, and Slovakia has no sea, no mountains, none of the natural resources that benefit us, whether you are smart or not, whether you are responsible or not. What is the main interest in the analysis of this budget? It's corruption. You have a contract service, it's a major item in all ministries, it's huge figures. Services under contract are over 10 billion euros in this budget. I think it's a little bit compared to 1200 what the total budget is, but believe me, 50% of those, from the experience of those who work with the state today, you can conclude, most of it is pure crime. There's nothing better to do than sell this government and this country anything, from toothpicks to whatever you want, a dina card to print, or something that has to do with someone from the top of the government. There are prices two or three times higher than they are real. We had a few years ago case that it was an emergency purchase from an item per contract, a contract-based service facility, where the Serbian Railway bought 1,000 and some hooks that put together two cars, what it's called, I don't know it officially, but we all saw it once, because of course it's gone, and it was paid seven times more than it was on the market, and six months before that, the same GTP destroyed 100 or 200 cars that were, or a couple hundred if I remember those freight wagons well, which were going to last, and it was okay for them to be destroyed, but they took off their hooks before that, so they put themselves in the warehouse, because those hooks could be used regardless of their age. It's one of the little examples. Look at any public procurement, it's a circus. Take another example of what this government is doing to its citizens. The price of fuel. We have fuel that's cheaper than in France by 0.1%, so for nothing. Our fuel, not ours, but the fuel at our pumps, has no reason to be this expensive, except that excises and taxes are more than 50% of that price. So, citizens, everyone, from somewhere around Africa or Asia that pulls that oil, to the one that transports it like crude oil, to the refinery, to the refinery, to the refinery, to the gas station, to the cost of the gas station, to the workers, to everything there, that's, if the fuel price is 160 dinars, that's 70 dinars, and 90 dinars take some of these people sitting here and they spend on something that comes to mind. Let's say, gondola in Belgrade. Of course, wasn't every Serbian citizen's dream, from anywhere, anything to do, whether or not from Black Treva, is it from Subotica, whether he's a Serbian director, whether he's teaching at a school or not, and he doesn't know where that high school is in Ćuprija, whether it's an old businessman, formerly from Nis, or anyone else, we all wanted to have gondola in Belgrade and to pay for it all, of course, or maybe it's not normal? I don't think that's normal. In a country where we treat our children with text messages, in the state where the Belgrade-Bar train stands because they are greasy tracks and say they will stand for 15-20 days because the tracks are greasy. Have you seen any news in the world since the railroad, that's why one highway doesn't work for 15 or 20 days? No, we need a gondola. And of course, gondola must be at least 100 times more expensive than the most expensive tree in mankind's history. Santa resigned when he saw how much the tree cost in Belgrade. And that's what we got through this budget. We have a lot of stuff, of course, 3500 pages can fit a lot of lies and a lot of nonsense. One of the things that we've submitted the amendment to, and here, this is a list of changes in the amendment to the budget, there's one 10 pages, and I'm not going to waste your time and your nerves reading all of this, and when the time comes for amendments, I'm going to talk about it, but the first thing we're looking for is that the subsidies to foreign companies are halved, or to open new companies in half, because it obviously didn't give a result that was expected seven, eight, ten years ago, when it started. And that's when I was against it. It doesn't make any sense that from the kidnapped, from the money through these taxes, such as that excise on fuel or something like that, and from poor Serbian or businessmen from Serbia, any nation, to take, kidnap, and then to give it to large foreign companies, they're Turkish or so, which you've never heard of before, to open new jobs, where it's always written in the title -- there'll be 2,000 jobs, and then in small letters, it says - until 2026. Of course, there's never been 2,000 jobs. Of course, 20% of these companies escaped as soon as they took the money, the rest of them are getting ready. Of course, these are companies with mahogany products whose technological development is at the end of the 19th century, a wave of scraping wires. You take the wire and you cut it to five feet, so you hang it through three, what's called a large nail or what's called that, and it's cremated down there. Awesome. There's nothing from that chip factory. There's nothing from hospitals that we need to have normal people. There's nothing from the great Mercedes-Icarbus project. I don't know what happened to that Mercedes label, but it might have turned into a hippie move right now, but we don't make Mercedes. This government promised SISU, FAP out of Prudence. None of that, of course. It was a promise of the Belgrade-Budapest railway by the end of 2016. To inform you, dear ministers and others from the government, tell the President of the State, there is a great danger that in a month we are approaching the end of 2018, not 2016. And there's this railroad that left what's left of that five-foot wolf with that Chinese guy, he's been tightening up some big screws. It's all sad stuff, and it's happening to us every day. Wherever you turn, you get one big lie, which is wrapped up with a sigh or with a threat or with a negative attitude towards the former government. That former government, which made you, I have criticised the most from 2004 until 2012. And she was very bad and she was an angel to you, who you are now. So this is the worst that can exist. There's nothing worse. Someone tells you coldly that the foreign debt that was in 2012, 15, 16 billion, today is 24 billion. So, that's a cut? Well, that's only if it's written in a smaller font and then it can, but basically even a small child knows it's an increase. A lie, when this government wants to say that it boasts something big, then measures it in dinars, so when it says – we have invested on some kindergarten in northern Kosovo 56 million dinars, which is when you translate it into Serbian, that's about 400 thousand, or 450 thousand marks, and when they want to hide something, it's a couple of tens of millions of euros. The couple of tens of millions of euros are several billion in dinars. It's all the things we see every day. Budget, let's not talk about raping parliament by having to solve this 3,500-page agenda here in three days, to break that budget calendar again. It was supposed to be with the budget, us, but not just us, but the citizens of Serbia get to know each other a month and a half ago, that the debate takes long enough for us all to figure out what this is all about. But that's not what you do when you broadcast fraud, lies and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49688	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. He says a saying: evil comes from infirmity. One who ruled over others has difficulty in ruling over him. And that just happened to my fellow farmer, my chosen patient, who was talking about everything here. He talked about dictatorship, a man who boasted yesterday that he had arrested as prime minister of 12,000 people, 12,000 people arrested as prime minister and he talks about dictatorship. It was a dictatorship he was conducting. By his will, the Prime Minister arrested people. It wasn't the radio court, it wasn't the prosecution, it was him himself, that he wasn't saying he was sitting in the chair of a murdered prime minister whose safety he was responsible for. He was talking here about the smallest growth in the region. He was telling a lie. He forgot that Montenegro has a deficit of 7% of GDP, and if you take that minus, you step outside and if you push it into consumption, then GDP growth, first of all, is a product of debt, that you took foreign money and bought it. This growth in Montenegro's trade will come heads, because foreign goods are traded for foreign money and the product of such growth is either the sale of capital, which was done in its time, in Gilas' time, in Bork's time, etc. Either he raises his debt or inflation goes up. However, he graduated from school in Bitola, and he doesn't need to know. Finally, if Mr. Zivkovic's hatred for this authority turned into energy, we could shine all over Serbia and the whole Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49690	Time. (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. I have to give it to the minister first, so I have to give it to you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49691	Thank you very much. I have to react to a few of the lies that were just heard. So we heard and you heard that Romania has five times the growth rate of Serbia. That means Romania has over 20% growth rate. For your information, Romania's growth rate in the first two quarters of this year was 4.1%. For Serbian citizens, the rate of growth in the Serbian economy in the first nine months of this year is 4.5%. We will try, and the 2019 budget is conceived so that our growth rates are more than the countries in the environment. Just reminders, in 2009, not to indicate who was in power then, the growth rate was 3.1%, 2010 0.6% growth, in 2011 1.4% growth, in 2012 decline by 1% again. These are the growth rates of the previous government. We're proud of 4.5% in the first nine months of this year. The second untruth, about the unemployment rate, therefore, according to the Statistics Institute and the methodology not only of the Statistics Institute, but also of Eurostat, therefore, the EU institution, the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia is 11.9% this October. It was 25.9% in 2013. So 25.9%, and today below 12%. We're still not happy with that number and that data, but that's why we fight every day to open new factories, to hire people. What is particularly encouraging and Serbian citizens need to know, the youth unemployment rate fell from 51.1% in the same period, so in 2013, every other youth was unemployed, to 27.5% today. It's a huge success and it gives us the right to say that we'll only be better in the years to come, but it's a big responsibility to go through the measures that we apply and manage to do it. You have a PIO fund, I have precise information and figures and figures for you, which is very important to me. So, besides reducing the unemployment rate, another indicator that you have more employees in Serbia and that the number is growing is exactly the amount of donations or donations from the budget that goes to the PIO Fund to pay off never bigger pensions. Although pensions grow, in 2009, 46.2%, therefore, almost half of the PIO fund's budget was grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and do you know how much it is today, 28.9, just because more taxes and more contributions are paid to the PIO Fund than any salary of people working in Serbia. So you have a much larger number of employees, we have a much higher budget because of that and taxes and contributions, we have a lot more money in the PIO fund, and therefore we have room for more pensions and for bigger salaries in the public sector, and that's the policy we're proud of and we won't give up on, without selling capital. We just heard that surplus and deficit are the same evil, I quote. I don't know which country both surpluses and deficits are the same evil. There may be a misunderstanding between economic policy, the responsible economic policy that we have led and led before us. It is always good to earn more than you have spent, both in your household and in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if you see that you are domestically treating that same budget. We planned a deficit of 0.5% in the 2019 budget. According to the findings, i.e. under the support of the Fiscal Council and the IMF, the budget is balanced. Yeah, we hope to have a surplus at the end of 2019, so why not? Well, there is no person who is not looking forward to making more than he spends, and that shows how domestic we are and how much we want our budget to be like the budget of any household in Serbia, that we have a surplus at the end of the year. We heard a comment – there will be bigger salaries for the military and for the police. Yes, there will be higher salaries for both teachers and professors and doctors and nurses, there will be higher salaries for everyone, because after the difficult measures of 2014 we have managed to consolidate our budget and we have room for both salary increases and pension increases. Let's not forget just one important thing. Since 1 January, I will repeat that, and the minimum labour price goes up 8.6%, which means that all employees in the Republic of Serbia will have higher salaries and that is very important to know. Finally, we heard a request for subsidies to foreign companies to be halved. We just heard a comment, just a question is whether the subsidies are to be halved after the subsidies were granted to build a vineyard or after that? We don't want to cut subsidies. We need to understand that we are all dealing with and fighting other countries in the environment. So we are fighting Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and other countries, which are also trying to attract foreign investors to our country. And we are proud of all the factories that we opened in the previous period and all the factories that we will only open in the years to come, because Serbia today is stable financially. Serbia today has a completely different image in the world. We are a peace and stability factor in the region and we want to fight for every new investment and every new job. In the end, let me give you another piece of information that will mean a lot to you. Those dealing with the economy must know that the stability of a single economy, a single economy, of a country is also reflected in the price of capital, i.e. the interest rate paid on bonds, the government's government bonds to cover its investments. I'll give you some data, I'd just like you to remember them, see what the difference in the economic situation is today and the economic situation in 2008, 2009, 2010 and how much Serbia has improved and how much the economic environment has improved. So, between 2009 and 2012, short-term securities were issued from value, three months to 53 weeks, the average rate, so the average interest paid by Serbian citizens and the Serbian budget was 12%, 12%. The first euro, i.e. the first euro of the denomined securities, was issued in 2011. At that time, the interest rate per euro was 5%, and today 1.25% on these same bonds with the same maturity. So four times and more than four times the interest rate than it was just seven or eight years ago. In 2012, the average weighted rate on dinar charters of value, five-year-old, was 14.74%. That's why the public debt went up to us because of this expensive task. So, 14.47% in 2012. In 2018, 4.12% of the country's value of the same charters is the interest rate of 4.12%. So three or more times lower. I can keep going. Look at the interesting information, the average weighted rate on the euro of the paper from 2012 is 5.67%, and you know what 0.88% is today. So you have another important and solid indicator. Neither Sinisa nor anyone else said that, says charter markets of values that are the most objective indicator of macroeconomic stability and financial situation, as well as the prospectus of growth in this economy. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49692	There's no replica. You hurt the minister, not him. (Zoran Zivkovic: What have I done? You insulted the minister, not him. Everyone heard what you said to him. (Zoran Zivkovic: What did I tell him? I won't say it again. (Zoran Zivkovic: It is because it is called that. No, no, no, I'm not getting in the middle with you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, late Aleksandar Tijanic told the previous speaker that he once made burgers and meatballs, and then became Prime Minister with unfortunate circumstances. A man completely uneducated, he says, probably in his intention to be funny, compared Slovakia and Serbia and then said Slovakia has no mountains. I don't know if he's heard of one of the most attractive tourist sites in Slovakia – High Tatra. I just looked on the Internet a little bit now. On the High Tatras you have 161 accommodation facilities. It doesn't matter now. It's hard to educate a man at that age. What's more important is that the citizens of Serbia know. Since he and his friends took over power in 2000, Serbia has always violated the budget calendar when it comes to the adoption of the budget law. To remind you: the 2012 budget was adopted on 29 December 2011, otherwise the deadline for adoption of the budget is 15 December; the 2011 budget was adopted on 29 December 2010; the 2010 budget was adopted on 29 December 2009: the 2009 budget was adopted on 21 December 2008; the 2008 budget was adopted on 28 December 2007. Now watch out for these two figures, the 2007 budget was adopted on 23 June 2007, and the 2004 budget was adopted on 23 March 2004. That's how they did it. How's the SNS working? The budget for 2013 was adopted on 1 December 2012, the 2014 budget was adopted on 13 December 2013, the 2016 budget adopted on 12 December 2015, the 2017 budget adopted on 10 December 2016, the 2018 budget adopted on 14 December 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49694	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49695	Dear colleagues, this is a debate on the most practically important document this country brings on the budget and is certainly of interest to all citizens. This initial debate is in principle. I think the most important thing that this budget shows is that we're coming out of the fiscal consolidation period. While you are in a period of fiscal consolidation you cannot count on serious rates to rise. We all know that. This budget will be the introduction, 2018, of what is called growth theory in economic theory. Not wanting to get into the debate about what happened and how it was, since 2012, I haven't seen a guy's experiments that in 2-3 months we've left 400,000 people out of work, I don't see that by changing a construction law we've destroyed 23% of GDP. These were some governments that we participated in, to understand each other. I don't see that kind of experiment. All what was done in the robbery privatisation, whose consequences for the country's economy were far more difficult than NATO bombing, were to be repaired. So, the Serbian economy needs to rise again. (Radoslav Milojic: Come on, please. Say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49696	Ambassador, he was just yelling for you to give him something.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49697	I can't hear a colleague. He's probably got something to say. So this budget is after a long time... (Zoran Zivkovic: This can? Mr. Zivkovic, I listened very carefully. (Zoran Zivkovic: You had something to hear. You're right. That's the kind of elemental ignorance I haven't heard in a while. Some small number of voices gave you that microphone and you're a folk MP and you can talk whatever, but you have to be polite, you have to hear, if anything, and another opinion. What is the characteristic of this budget? And last year, and this year, and even during a period of fiscal stabilisation? We're finally starting to spend as much as we make. It's been a long time since our society's fault that we've spent in one way or another, in this or that political imposition, more than we've spent. How big is our gum? How much does it say in this budget? That's how it was done last year. I wish we had higher growth rates. I wish our social product wasn't on level 36, 37, 38 billion, as far as anyone's saying, and that's actually our problem -- a relatively small social product per capita, relatively small per capitage. That's what we have to work on. Systemic measures that can be taken from next year, and we see this by investing an additional 100m euros in capital investments, I will return to that later, saying that the state that is still on the inside of us, besides foreign investments, the biggest investor, says that this budget, in the given circumstances in which the Serbian economy is well planned. I'm not going to take 0.5% of the deficit. I'm sure we won't have a deficit. I'm sure we'll have a surplus, but you have to plan conservatively if you want to have a stable dinar and if you want to have these interest rates, even if you want to have good grades of those I personally hate, and they're called the IMF and the World Bank, but they're important to you to have certain credit ratings. I can tell you that "Serbiagas", which has a large amount of debt in its portfolio, has reprogrammed, for example, US dollar loans at an interest rate of 0.9% this year. The capital is relatively cheap. I'd even have another strategy. I would even be in debt, provided that we can in this politically unstable region, because there are no more investments for a small country, there are only investments that are regional character, or you fit into some big systems that come to invest with us. I'm saying this because it's a flat-rate foreign investment that comes to us. There are no other investments. Either you are doing regional investment, and we with the Croats can't agree anything, I don't want to talk about Montenegro, we have Serbian unity with Republika Srpska, I hope it will be with Montenegro, but it's political things, to make serious economic systems, large economic systems, or you have to have significant resources, which are in our place like RTB Bor, or even better, EPS, which is the best Serbian company, so when you talk about raising GDP, it's very important how much EPS will invest, from remont to new facilities, or new capital investments that will produce new amounts of electricity. These are the real things we need to talk about. When you look at the infrastructure, if you look at the division that the Ministry of Infrastructure has, I mean the roads, you will see that we are constantly and constantly working on the completion of Corridor 10, on Corridor 11, on some other smaller corridors. My colleague was talking about what it means, we're not going back to each of the numbers for Saturday, we're not talking about it here, as much as we have, and that's some, I think, 500 million, Mr. Minister. We're giving out the budget for it. Why would I bring that up? Someone says -- let you reduce something from 70% of the debt to 55% of GDP, it doesn't matter, it's the same 24 billion. Yeah, but we stopped the debt from rising, and we made all these investments. On the other hand, those who know the economy, how much has it grown, say, VAT, that shows the growth of the economy? It has grown significantly in gross terms. And then there were the critics and they said, but it fell down because of that which was returned, and it was reduced net. Well, it doesn't matter, it's only gross. It actually shows what's going on in the economy. We often attack Miladin Kovacevic and the Department of Statistics, and the methods change, and I don't know what. I'd like to comment on it like this. Gentlemen, I spend every day between 300 and 400 km in my car. I'm going all over Serbia. Most of you drive. Take the number of trucks two, three, four years ago, here, while this government or this coalition is still today. There's a lot more traffic in the trucks. And I'm not sure the trucks are running empty. Furthermore, when it comes to agriculture, I welcome an additional seven billion growth, I would only ask, since we know that there are some outstanding claims from last year, and for that I see that this class has been increased, to pay off farmers' claims from last year, it is not so much, and to keep at least this level of investment in agriculture. Why? Because in these 4.5% this year, about 0.9% will be agriculture. One of the few branches where Serbia has pure income, our money, from our country, without some excessive investment, with a very patient peasant. That's it. I don't want to discuss ownership structures, I want to discuss yields. Perhaps we should consider developing the gulf systems. I don't see them here right now. But that's what I'm saying. When it comes to capital investments, this is where we talked about investing in the military. I greet them and I think they're small. Because we need to explain to someone what kind of environment Serbia is in? Take the defense strategy. We don't predict an invasion, we don't predict that we're going to bomb someone. We plan to defend ourselves against terrorism. We plan to defend ourselves against what can happen in the region, not to fight a war with someone. And we haven't invested in the army in 20 or 30 years. Well, it has to be invested. As far as salary is concerned, I welcome a raise in salary both in the police and in the military. Let's talk about it. I understand that our economy is relatively shallow and small. What am I talking about? If we were to invest too much in production, we would, unfortunately, because of the structure of our economy, mainly buy imported products. We don't want to invest in that part of the standard, nor do we have the right to, which would lead to us buying too much import goods, which, unfortunately, often happens. We need to restructure our economy. It is not nice to buy other people's milk and juices, and we can produce in Serbia. There are other examples we can discuss. This was measured with two dimensions. One is the increase in public sector wages, which will not compromise the budget, nor the figures in it, which is already visible, because it is a reserve that you cannot see right away, but if you read the budget carefully, you will see that it will not compromise the budget. On the other hand, the labour price has been raised. Well, then I guess the real sector, and the private sector, will go to raise wages? What's going on in the public sector? In the public sector, because this is also about the extension of the employment ban, the public sector goes to those we can't pay, and for years we've invested in them. We can't keep them. It's a mediocre. In the private sector, they pay the ones they need, and these others in some way, thanks to these relatively low rates, relatively low minimum wage, keep at that level. And that is one question, if I may suggest to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we must observe dynamically. When it comes to the economic environment, well, as far as I know, VAT in Croatia is bigger than in Serbia, Hungary is bigger than in Serbia. (Radoslav Milojic: What are the salaries? What? Go ahead. What's the average salary there? Well, if we hadn't been bombed from Hungary, there'd be more of us. So we need to talk about reality. We'll get there. The Serbian economy is no smaller than the Croatian economy. We're supposed to compare to that, and they have seas? I'm talking about total volume. They can have slightly higher wages, and what is their purchasing power? How much for electricity? We can go in a row. How much are the communals? You know, the standard of life isn't measured to make it work, so people don't understand what you're talking about. Beer's more expensive than ours, believe me. At least I know that. So, what's the point of these profits? We need to help with the general atmosphere and the real sector. This is where the polemics took place – how much to pay for certain things, and if I'm not mistaken here, it is suggested that the profit rate from 63% be reduced to 62%. It seems ridiculous. It's a historic thing. For the first time in 40 years, we are considering reducing the rate of profit from 63% to 62%. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Minister, it's 12 billion. If we recalculate to the dinars, that's 100 million euros. Let's start with 100 million euros. It's not quite clear here, but I want to support it, it's projected to be 200m euros in ecology. That's 63 purifiers. We welcome that. These are the money that will be spent on Serbia's internal GDP to increase. A potentially additional 200m euros for the purchase of equipment in health care has been foreseen. Isn't that what we're looking for? We don't have billions, but we have 200 million. Is it true that a good renovation of the clinic center in Nis was done? I, as a local patriot, advocate that Novi Sad gets more, and even less, I don't mind rebuilding the Clinical Centre in Belgrade. Why? Because one such institution goes according to the standard of two million inhabitants, only three of them should allow for the raising of the degree of health care. I see that some money is also planned for general hospitals, which should also be something that should bring health policy closer to citizens. There's still a few things we can do here. I would just like to say about the gas infrastructure project, which will be built here on Serbia's territory from Bulgaria to the Hungarian border, not to mix some things. So Serbia can consider three directions and they are present in the strategy. One is the Niš-Dimitrovgrad-Sofia interface that is being done and it is currently a European Commission grant. Why a grant? Because this European-American gas supply direction of Serbia does not currently have certain amounts of gas, is not commercial, but the Republic of Serbia will do its obligation and all 80.5 million, something with a grant, something that we will pay for, will do that gas direction to have other forms of gas supply. As for the commercial project, which is not a single project, and Minister Antic said well, we should not link these things, this project is done according to fully European rules, it is done as part of the infrastructure that will be built as part of the increase of the transport capacity of the Republic of Serbia in terms of gas pipelines, so our project, the Serbian project, yes, will be done by a Russian-Serbian firm, but it is common, and you can see that, these are public data on the Energy Agency's website, an estimated cost of a billion and 80m euros for these projects. It is true that it should be completed on December 15th next year, but normally, when such large infrastructure is done, 30% is the role of shareholders, 70% is financing so-called. project financing. Whether we're going to be dealing with some sort of bridge lane, since in eight months we have to finish it all or anything else, it's important that Serbia in this project, together with Bulgaria, is doing well, along with Turkey that is building a land area in Botosh, as we agreed, and build a gas infrastructure, because this is the first time Serbia is going to be in a position to be a transit country, not a country where some pipe and an end ends and God help. In the perspective, since Romanians are also doing research, they are enough for themselves, we are planning to interact with Romania. We will increase it, and this does not require state money, the capacity of Banatski Dvor to 750m cubic meters, i.e. in the second phase to a billion metres of cubic, which is 50% of the annual production of the Republic of Serbia's consumption. If that large pipeline passes, we will build another warehouse of one billion cubic metres in Itebej, that is two billion, which is currently the annual consumption of gas from the imports of the Republic of Serbia. So, this year, if you were looking at the data that was officially published, the public sector worked better and rejected a significant profit. It's not good enough yet, we're slowly going in to get out of these social effects of social policy, which is still present in "Serbia". We will have to see that the EPS increases investment and unfortunately, in the perspective, one other price of electricity must be considered in order for the EPS to become what it should be, a self-sustainable system that rejects a large amount of social product. I hope that Serbia's oil industry will also become a regional oil company in all the investments it now has, and not small and deep processing, which was its goal, and in fact the objectives signed under the interstate agreement would be met. I'm not gonna waste any more time right now. We can explain a few other things. I think the most important thing that we've done right now is that we've finally started spending as much as we do in the country and we're creating systemic conditions, including tax breaks, that we have more investment. I'm sorry, I skipped one parameter to comment. If our foreign exchange deficit covered the investment of foreign investment, and I understood that it was, that there were even some 200m euros, foreign investments were more than deficits, it was fantastic data. This means that a small and medium-sized economy, which we may not have recognized immediately, is doing its job. There's a lot of controversy here about how many citizens are leaving, a large number of citizens are leaving Romania, unfortunately leaving Serbia, leaving Croatia, but I want to mention one thing, we need to do everything we can to keep every smart head in Serbia. I think this year, which officially, off the record, the IT sector in Serbia, which is developing, and I welcome the construction of the Technology Park in Novi Sad, will transfer a billion euros. It costs some electricity, but we're actually selling our knowledge. That branch, I'd call it industry, will certainly grow. And what we need to pay special attention to in the next period, I just mentioned it on the way, and I think the state should have the right development plans and, let's call secondary or territorial processing of agricultural products. From what I understand, we now have huge surpluses of grain and corn in Serbia at a good price. We're going to take the corn out, the prices are great, but then we need to help these peasants too, through the industry that's organized in Serbia, not sell more grain, but sell the bongia. I think large reserves to create additional value added actually lie in the processing of what our agriculture produces. In that sense, I think that next year we're going to bring this budget, and in 2021, it needs to be substantial, if conditions are created, to increase donations or donations, whatever you want, to agricultural producers. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49698	Time, thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49699	I'll just take a minute. Let me take a look at the comments you made about agriculture and investments in agriculture, to remind you that the 2019 budget set the amount for agriculture of 51.8 billion dinars. Which is 7.7 billion more than in 2008. It is 17.4% more for agriculture for 2019 than for 2018, precisely recognising the importance of agriculture and its contribution to the further development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49700	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49701	Just for a little while. You're absolutely right, all countries are facing an outflow of their population, and unfortunately it's not something that's only about Serbia. I'm just going to give you an example of Romania that had 22 million inhabitants in the 1980s, and today it's about 19 million. Not all died, the vast majority went looking for better conditions, and that is the EU member state. We have this example, you know, that from Hungary doctors and experts are going mass in Austria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are going to Germany, they're going to Germany, they're going to Germany, they're going to Switzerland, they're going to Great Britain, they're going to the United States. It's a world trend, but it's up to us to stop it in our country as much as we can, and of course, by improving economic space, but not just economic space, but the overall quality of life in our country and security space. When you have a safe and stable country, when you have a country whose borders are defended, when you have a country that's guarded, when you have a country where there's no terrorism, when you have a country that fights crime, it's a country worth living in, even though you don't have a salary of 2,000 euros like in Germany, but you earn 500, 700 or 1,000 euros. And these are ways to stay in this country. This is where the military was mentioned, and I thank you for supporting the increase in the military budget and the increase in military earnings, the increase in police earnings, for the BIA, so for the entire security system, and that's good news. It's always good news, especially since we had an army that was so abandoned from 2000 to 2012 that, for example, from 2000 to 2012, eight MiG rockets were purchased, and now we've bought 14 MiGs. Just to see a little example of how it wasn't invested and how it's now investing in the military, but it has to be invested in the quality of life of every member and army and police force. They need to be satisfied, they need to know that we appreciate them, and we can't keep them without serious investment both in the military and the police. That's, say, the problem you have, here's Bundesver has a terrible problem with the military outflow and he has to fight, and he can't even fight with the height of the profits in the private sector. It is very difficult to keep IT engineers in the military, very difficult, both in Germany and Serbia. But, look, these are all the challenges we face and I thank the National Assembly for giving us support and for truly welcoming our military investment. We're here, unfortunately, again, and I'd be very happy if the budget was discussed, about the economy, about the profession, whether it's better this or that, but we've already heard the military and the police trying to get involved in politics, how they're being talked about as someone who's going to, they're going to get paid, because they're going to keep the regime, and they're going to need it. First, the military and the police don't guard any regime, guard the Constitution and the law, guard their country. They can keep the borders together when necessary, which you saw when there was a migrant crisis. But what regime? Who wants to attack the regime? When does that destroy power by force? The military and the police always show up when it comes to force. What kind of force? Who's announcing force? I don't see any force. I don't see anywhere to be citizens or that they're encouraged to deal with someone by force. I don't see anyone here in front of the assembly wanting to burn down the congregation like October 5th. I don't see the government falling in the streets. Who do we have to watch out for? Is that something we don't know? It seems there is, because here in this highest house it's said that the military and the police are bribed to protect the regime, and they'll need to be told. Who's they gonna need to keep it? What army and police? The last time those who burned this assembly had contact with the military and the police, they were kissing special forces here to celebrate burning this assembly, and the next contact with the army was when they were handing over the generals. So let's not, let's agree that a few institutions that are really important to this people, to keep them from politics. The government doesn't use them for political purposes, far from that. On the contrary, he respects their patriotism, respects their expertise, and that's all he asks of the military and the police. Now let's not talk about them being some sort of defense attorney. They are defenders of the Constitution and the law and nothing else, and the regime or government defends itself in the elections and defends itself by the votes of the citizens, as you can see, is well defended at all levels, always two-thirds of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49702	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49703	Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, members of the Government, Mr. Mali, I would first like to draw your attention to what is your obligation, as long as you are Minister of Finance. MPs may and may have the right here in parliament to excess policies, but you, as finance minister, must defend what is the precondition of the country's successful economy and the prerequisite for your success. Why do you tolerate nonsense about privatisations that are worse than NATO bombings? We've adopted these privatisation laws together, haven't we? Under these laws, we're still working today, these are good laws. Was privatisation successful? It's not. Who's responsible for that? Changed political circumstances, those who participated in privatisation failed, the difficult situation the country was in when we started privatisation? The budget law is the most important law, and you represent it in such a way as to make this the worst budget the Assembly has adopted. You are neither the first nor the last to come to parliament by joining 30, 40, 50, 60 points of the agenda. Why do you drag this budget through the National Assembly in such a way? Someone on the side of this country won't see what's so important, it's, say, budget deficits. What do strangers tell you when you talk to them? What's what they're interested in? We here can talk within the framework of that budget about one division or another, foreigners look at the budget deficit, and therefore draws conclusions on the financial situation and the state of the country. Your deficit is good. He was a good one and a previous budget. You spoke, you did not mention your predecessor, Minister Vujovic. I don't know when this country had a finance minister named Minister of the Year in one of the polls in the world. Well, since you already have those facts, why are you putting them away somewhere? So many times you mentioned the historical significance of a law and its reform character and then moved on to the next item of the agenda. I think you've made a few major failures. First, you didn't explain why the pension indexation was not done and you were deprived of the arbitration right to decide how pensions would grow. I think I was the only one in parliament who asked to freeze salaries and pensions in 2008 because of a financial crisis that was too big. There was no understanding of it. That's why in 2014, we had to take measures to cut pensions by 10%. It is true that the unwritten rule and the right by which no one can take away what they've already acquired, but provided that it exists, and that didn't exist when you cut salaries and pensions by 10%, you don't want to say it, because then you'd have to talk about those next to you sitting in government, and they destroyed the country so much that in 2000, when we came to power, we had to think about how we were going to provide electricity to people in houses and apartments, how are we going to start gas stations and stop buying fuel in those tiny cans in the ditch? I'm not here to explain to anyone what October 5th is or defend October 5th, and I can't think of doing that. But when you talk about the 2019 Budget Law, then make sure that none of what you're defending here today would have happened if it hadn't been for that 5. In October, if it hadn't been for the Labour Act that we adopted in 2001, the ruling coalition would have fallen apart, that the law would have been put out of force and then returned in 2014. Well, when that law came back in 2014, you got my support, because it was the same law from 2001. So now I have the right to ask you – if you raise your salaries to 12%, which builds the belief that this is justified, except what is necessary, of course, when we know and evaluate that the wages in the private sector will grow to a maximum of 5%. And in those countries that you think we are supposed to be arriving, EU public sector wages are growing by increasing 50% of private sector wages plus interest rates. And that's what the Fiscal Council has brought to your attention. You were talking about the Budget Law, and you didn't say a word about this financial crisis that definitely exists since taxes for all Serbian goods leaving for Kosovo have now been introduced. That's $450 million. If we import 20 goods from Kosovo, that's 430. That's 1.5% of GDP. Is that going to kind of reflect through this budget? What do you do as Minister of Finance to protect this budget projection from these consequences? Is there room somewhere to make up for that 1.5% of GDP? You said this budget is a kind of announcement of the end of fiscal consolidation, how is that possible? You know there's none of that until the party management of public enterprises replaces corporate governance. Is there also a public enterprise, Mr. Minister, which is not run by parties and party staff that are governmental? Not to mention now, all Babice and I'm not going to stick my finger in anybody's eye for what's going on over there, but I'm sure professional management and professional management would somehow have seen that clay in the highway to Chačka, if there were any and noticed gaps in the making of a hair that collapsed three times over there in Gredeca. What are you going to do with public enterprises? You didn't get into that space. That's totally amazing. You're able to line up public finances, reach a deficit of 0.5%, set aside 200 billion for investment, and for all this time, you haven't touched public enterprises. Why is that? What's the problem? It's an expression of mistrust, a suspicion that it's possible to manage the state by professionalizing that part of our society. That's necessary, inevitable. Remember what happened last year. It's not just the climate that made us grow less, it's the EPS. What's next year's growth projection going on? Can you tell us that? We're going in now with a minus 1.5. That's how much a Kosovo tax is costing us. Does anyone know what next year's gonna be like? What kind of harvest? What will be the weather? Is that how long it takes for us to depend on it? We can't run serious country finances if we're playing dodol. The agrarian is mentioned here. It's not true that our agrag is the backbone of our economy. What is the average possession of the Serbian agrarian? When was the last time the commission was carried out, when were the properties collected? How old is the average household? We haven't been able to agree on the elemental assumptions for the development of agrarians. It's a great joke, but it's called Bonjita. Do you know how much Bonjita was sold in Turkey and how it went before that? What's going on with the mills in Vojvodina? In the mill, your profit margin is less than the NBS interest rate, which is why it stands "Klas" in Belgrade, which is why "Zjitko" stands, which is why "Micides" closed in Sremska Mitrovica, which is why there is no buyer for the Kickindian mill, which is why "Fidelinka" stands, which is why there is no one as crazy as I was. Four years ago, seven years ago in bankruptcy. If we want to talk seriously about development, you were talking about the budget and you didn't mention the private sector, except what you said, pointed to a 1% reduction. All right, and that 1% is significant, very, every cent is important and it should be supported. What about the private sector? Quantitative discounts become the past. Isn't that right, Mr. Kid? The European Central Bank stops printing money, the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to the dollar, announced a new raise for December. How will this affect our economy? Are we thinking about it now? Two and a half thousand billion were added by Mario Draghi in 2015 to the financial system in Europe, two and a half thousand. There may also be a part of the answer to the question of where direct investment is coming from in this country, perhaps from that money. What happens if that money gets more expensive and becomes, the interest rate changes? That's what I'm asking you about, because of the Development Fund, I'm asking you about the never-fulfilled idea of this country's Development Bank. Very serious subjects, and we can't talk about them if we leave time for discussion, just enough so we can introduce ourselves to each other. It was mentioned in this debate and "Turkish Stream", very nice. How much does privatisation NIS cost us? Is the answer to the question why is there no one in Azotara perhaps in the fact that we can't influence Petrochemy and Petrochemy can't affect NIS? Did we give this country's national wealth for the South Stream? We did. Where is he? He's gone. There's a Turkish coming. Did someone ask a question of our ownership and share in that pipeline or should we be happy, okay, it's good that he's passing through here, there's got to be an alternative way of supply, so we don't get that drama repeated a few years ago? But we're talking about Banatian Court. Whose name is Banatski Dvor, Bajatovic? It's not Serbian. It's Russian. Take part in this debate in the way this country needs it. I never allowed the economic reforms that were implemented in Serbia, which are the assumptions of all that is going on today, so this Vujovic was with us, you were in our government's position. You're allowing someone to say that NATO bombing is a joke compared to privatisation after 2000. We can't keep that quiet, first of all, because of those people who were killed back then. There's hundreds of thousands left, a lot of people out of work. They've lost their jobs because it's the price of crazy politics that's been led, they -- if we don't know we're working, we know we're fighting. (Nedjo Jovanovic: And the law you passed in 2001. ) Yes, the laws we have made have allowed you to have this budget before you today and that you can support the IMF, that Standard&Poor’s, Fitch, Moody’s look at Serbia and say – okay, these public finances are fine. But that's not all. Payment classes, it's in the domain of Minister Ruzic, but it's also a question for you first of all. A ban on employment, what kind of measure is that, how do we get good personnel if it's forbidden to hire someone who's capable? It must be put out of force. Payment classes must be done. That's what you've been negotiating with the unions, agreed and then postponed for another year. Can I ask you something, be honest, is that maybe because this is the election budget? That's what we need to know. If we go to the election, how is that going to affect your budget projection, Mr. Mali, hypothetically asking you? Let's just say that I think maybe you don't know if there's going to be a choice, but if there are, how is that going to affect the budget? So, one and a half years from now, we're down for Kosovo and those taxis, we haven't implemented payment-class agreements, we don't agree to an indexation of pensions that need to grow the way the gross social product grows, which means that you still doubt the stability of our finances that you're talking about at the same time. But if there is somewhere to be an answer to these problems today, then it can no longer be the places where we sought the answer four years ago, public enterprises, paying classes, support for the private sector. You're talking about 200 billion investments. In what way? Through state projects, through the budget. What about the Development Fund? What about the Development Bank? What about cheaper capital for our economy? It's becoming a theme again. I told you, it's over with a quantitative discount, no more printing money. The FED raises interest rates, the European Central Bank raises interest rates. Now you get credit as a medium-sized enterprise with 10-11% interest in a domestic bank, truth, and dinars. And how does that come back? What business do you have to do? As for the agrarians, the subsidies you mention, okay, but you also have a debt for last year. When the funds you're obliged to repay are taken away from that money you planned for the agrarian, then the situation is actually different than you said. It's technically a bigger budget, but for how much? For the debt created by not paying subsidies for the previous year. There's no need to be wrong here. I don't know anyone who's in power yet and who doesn't want to pay anything, who wants to cut wages and pensions and look forward to it. But then go out and say, "If we want to pay subsidies to farmers, we have to reform further." There is no point in comparing Serbia's growth with the growth of countries in the region, because they've been doing their job, building work, working in continuity for almost 30 years, and we started it four or five years ago seriously. What we did in the first two years after October 5th was destroyed in the period from 2004 to practically 2014, there was no economic policy of this country. Of course, it was clear to us that whoever wants to lead a serious economic policy must continue to privatise. Of course it was clear to us that whoever wants to run a serious economic policy has to change the Labour Act, that he has to tighten wages and pensions because we're in debt and we've come to an end. To deny the successes of this plan, it is disrespect to the people who have endured these measures. But it's not enough to write letters to pensioners and say, "Thank you," but thank you and return pensions that will grow in line with GDP, as in the whole world. Thank you, people in the public sector, we're introducing payment classes. Thank you, 180,000 of you, as much as it is in public enterprises, we're lifting the employment ban. They can't be corporations if there's no free labour market. It's all weaknesses to talk about, and you have something to say about it. So I'm asking you what happens to the budget if this measure of the Kosovo authorities remains in force? We have a start minus one and a half. How do you think you help the private sector, first of all I mean financing? Is there even an idea of forming a Development Bank and who needs to talk? I'm sorry. I'm done. Say, answer for payment classes and answer, please, answer what I am very interested in, it's a question of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49704	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49705	Thank you very much. In the next few minutes, I will look back at those parts of the 2019 budget and those parts of the law that are in front of you today, which are just aimed at dispersing our economy and supporting not only the public, but the private sector in its growth and development. First Amendment and First Law, it is the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. As I have already said, on 1 January 2019, a contribution to the employer's burden of unemployment is abolished, and this is the first form of discharging the overall economy and the overall economy of the Republic of Serbia. The total cost of the budget, and as much as the economy remains to be made available in 2019, is 12 billion dinars. It is just one of the measures that is aimed at making our economy, business societies and private and public even more competitive and even better. Secondly, the Law on corporate tax, the amendments to the law, contain a large number of elements that will further relieve all companies, all enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. The total amount of the estimated incentives and these disbursements is about seven billion dinars per year, so 12 who come because of the abolishing of unemployment contributions and plus these seven and these are too much the next, I will read them carefully, as it is important that the citizens of Serbia know, these are details, and it is important for you to know. Therefore, the change in the method of accounting for depreciation, so that all the fixed assets obtained from 1 January 2019 will be amortised only by applying a proportional method. One of the two most important demands we received when we surveyed the economy through foreign investors' advice and through the American Chamber of Commerce and through Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. Further, recognition of expenditure based on advertising and propaganda in tax balances without restrictions. A few days ago, I had talks with the Association of Corporate Directors of Serbia, they weren't aware of the changes that mattered to them, and everyone accepted it with great satisfaction. Recognition of costs for research and development in double the amount. In order to motivate the debtors to opt for investment in research and development, which would, in turn, lead to the creation of innovative products and services. All that Serbian companies invest in research and development in a double amount is accepted in the tax balance, thus less paying the income tax more money remains and that is exactly another measure to boost the innovation and development of our businesses. Recognising the right to tax credit on the basis of cash investments made to increase the capital of the so-called capital. start-ap companies, taxation of income obtained by the holder of copyright or related rights on the basis of a fee for the use of copyright or related law in order to stimulate patents and a large number of innovative things to be patented in Serbia to be free of tax treatment. Taxing the share of capital gains achieved by alienating the right of intellectual property developed in Serbia in terms of excluding 80% of the same from the tax base, a huge incentive to further innovative work by our businesses. The right to tax credit based on the capital gains tax paid in another country and another type of tax incentives for our businesses. It's all about the amendments and additions to the profit tax law that is here today in front of you. The third thing that's very important for the real economy, for our economy, it's the law on compensation. I'll read to you again what this Refunds Act contains. A little while ago when I said two things that the economy wanted, it's equating depreciation to speed up the depreciation of the basic assets, to encourage them to buy more new equipment and new technology. And on the other hand, the unique law on fees. All charges for the use of public goods are now prescribed by one law. Furthermore, four existing fees, otherwise the fees when we add up all the ones that we've abolished and that we plan to cancel on January 1st, that's about two billion dinars on an annual level. So 12 billion cuts in unemployment contributions, seven billion tax incentives, two billion more, so over 20 billion dinars remain the economy more based only on these law-amending activities proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. Therefore, as of 1 January 2019, biofuel charges, natural gas reserve charges, overuse of public road, part or travel facility, compensation for the use of commercial facilities which are allowed to access the public road are lifted. The level of compensation for changing the purpose of forests and forest land from ten to five times the base value is reduced. It's a precise base, a simplified way of calculating disposal fees, and a great number of other changes so I don't bother you here with all the details. There are exactly those incentives, those measures that need to encourage further development of our economy both in public and private. Perhaps the biggest contribution to the development of the economy in Serbia, the state gives not through these, I would say, direct measures, but through having completed fiscal consolidation and fully stabilised its public finances, where the state is no longer a burden on the economy, that it is growing and that it may be developing and perhaps best seen, just before I said, at the cost of capital where the interest rates are both on dinar and euro bonds at a record-low level, which also speaks in favour of how much investor confidence in our economy, and on the other hand, it is also a reper for loans provided by private banks and state banks to private and state-owned companies. So the price of capital has decreased multiple times, and that may be the biggest contribution the state on the part of its stability gives to the real economy. As far as public enterprises are concerned, let me answer that question. What is very important, in the programming part of the programme with the IMF, is also a special reference to public enterprises. I asked them a little earlier to calculate how much the total profit of public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, so it grows year after year, and what is very important, therefore, had a large number of positive companies. A very small number of losers, if we have them at all, and on the other hand we introduce mechanisms, precise mechanisms together with the IMF, how to control and further improve the work of our public enterprises. Do I believe there's room for further promotion? Absolutely, yes. Are we on our way? Well, that's precisely the figures showing that from year to year the total dividend that public enterprises are paying in the budget is increasing. So they work better, earn more, benefit the Republic of Serbia's budget, hence Serbia's citizens, especially through increased salaries and increased pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49706	Thank you, Minister. The word has the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49707	Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted a few remarks. This is where the Labour Act is mentioned, and I have had the honour of participating in the adoption of the Labour Law, as then a resolute minister and to say that it was not a law based on the law of 2001 or 2005. The 2001 and 2005 laws were laws that not only allowed but included part of firing 400,000 people. It's never been easier to let go than under those laws. The union has never trampled more than under those laws. Foreign investors have never broken down to come here, among other things, because of that law. You've seen the change. In those days when we passed that law in the Assembly, it wasn't exactly an idyllic atmosphere, but we were fiercely attacked, and the governments that weren't allowed to pass such a law did not have the courage of the Wolfic as they didn't have our perseverance, as they didn't have the trust of the nation. Thanks to all this, we have succeeded and this law has changed things for the better. That's why, not only that, but that's why we've reduced unemployment so fiercely, and that's why we've allowed foreign investors to come. Besides, that's why you don't have a single strike in Serbia. Remember what it looked like at a time when these laws were passed, and it wasn't because workers were eager to not work and strike, but because they were saving a naked head, a naked existence. The laws we passed, we didn't, they helped, they saved our economy. Therefore, let us not compare these laws from 2001 to 2005 with the laws passed by this Assembly, which were passed by this authority. You know I don't think and I don't think too much of the opinion of the Council of Europe and their bodies, but here's to tell you that this Council of Europe has brought an official position on the 2001 and 2005 labour law issue and said it is anti-work and anti-European. That's what you couldn't say about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49708	Thank you, Minister Vulin. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go, Minister. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49709	First of all, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, there were a lot of things that would simply be good to comment on. What my colleague Vulin was talking about was a fact that doesn't need to be further explained. And, fortunately, this government has absolutely not been operating under any laws that have been passed since 2001. It would be just a continuation of the disaster that the Serbian economy went through, the entire industry that was destroyed by the terrible privatisations that, I say, de facto of Serbia made an ecological state, because there was no industry in Serbia after you. There used to be some worker crabs. They remain as a consequence of these laws, because no chimney works there and this is the result of these measures and these laws and of privatisation and the Labour Act, which have left nearly half a million people out of work. Please, don't even look for any parallels and touch points between your laws and what we're doing today. Public enterprises, of course, are always a problem and there is always a need to invest additional energy to make their work more efficient, transparent, more professional and similar. But what I have to point out is there are colleagues, when the public enterprises in the energy sector are at stake, all these companies are operating positively for the first time. So, it has never happened in years of continuity and "Electro Economy of Serbia", and "Serbia Gas" and "Option of Oil" and "Electro Network of Serbia" are doing a positive job and earning profits, which are public data that are being verified. I'm asking you to check them yourself. If not, I'll give you the results. It is not because I am a genius minister, nor because these companies are headed by genius general directors, but because they are going through a serious process of consolidation and financial restructuring and financial consolidation that we are working together with the World Bank. The successes we achieve in both "Electroprivred Serbia" and "Serbian gas" are, above all, the result of a serious system that has now been established in these companies and which will only yield results. If it wasn't all great, and I'm going to go from my portfolio again, it's primarily the Public underground coal exploitation company Reavica, which is traditionally a bad business, and I'm putting myself on the line as a minister, which in the last few years I may not have invested more energy to improve this system, but also when it comes to working with the World Bank's expert mining team, an additional project. I hope that the result of all of this will be that in Resavica, we will create a path that we will manage to get that company through, or at least save those parts of that company that have no doubt reserves of coal, a perspective like the Stavalj mine, the Soko mine, parts of the Rembas mine, parts of the Ibar mines, etc. They ask the question, the interstate privatisation agreement "NIS" and "Gasvoda". First of all, I must remind myself once again that all these projects have been implemented in accordance with the interstate agreement adopted by this Assembly in 2008 and I really cannot see in this House the political forces that voted against the agreement. It seems to me, don't take me for harm, if I remember the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, Mr. Canak, they were publicly exposed against this project and, of course, I don't know who else was in parliament then, Mrs. Micic, there I am almost always sure, so the general consensus in society existed around that interstate agreement. The result of the interstate agreement is the privatisation of "NIS" and the construction of the Banatski dvor and the pipeline project. The gas pipeline project was halted in 2014 by various circumstances, primarily due to problems in Bulgaria. I am not yet an absolute optimist, relatively optimistic, and I will be optimistic when I see massive works in Bulgaria, Serbia and Hungary to realize that pipeline. I hope that the pipeline will come, because it is indeed in the highest interest of the Republic of Serbia and from the point of view of energy security and security of supply, continued gasification and industrialisation of Serbia, but finally also from the point of view of profits. The ownership relations in the company developed by the pipeline are in line with earlier agreements and 51:49 "Gaspro Serbia" – GAS, believe me, is not bad for Serbia at all, even more the risk of this process and project lies primarily in the lease of the pipeline's capacity. The entire project and revenues expected of the project of $18m per year are, above all, related to the rental of capacity. It is normal, then, that the party guaranteeing the lease capacity with its own gas and by taking that risk has that tiny amount of difference in ownership. I wouldn't comment, I think you're on very thin ice to talk about "Azotara" now and especially from the point of view of what caused the final departure of "Azotara" to bankruptcy. I have to say here that the disaster "Azotara" began in 2006 and the catastrophic privatisation of which the company sold the Buddha to why, immediately after privatisation, the key production line would have been taken from "Azotara" from Serbia, taken abroad, sold for far greater money than it was bought. (Kedomir Jovanovic: That is not true. ) Although it is not true, don't do it to Mr. Jovanovic, if it wasn't for the carbamides line and if it hadn't been for the production of "Azotari" then, we would have had a successful "Azotara" today, so that the debacle "Azotara" is again the result of your disastrous Privatisation Act and the catastrophic privatisations that were made during that period. Today, we have an incredibly complex task of developing Serbia in a tremendously difficult, geostrategic moment, but also of ironing all the problems that are, above all, the product of catastrophic privatisations that were realised in Serbia after 2000, and above all in 2003, 2004, 2005, when they were "the biggest privatisation revenues in Serbia's budget". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49710	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'll also inform you that I'm taking a break right now and we'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Replica. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis? You can't answer to ministers. [[Kedomir Jovanovic: Then the replica, to answer the minister.]] They answered your questions. (Kedomir Jovanovic: I was misread, especially Antic. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49712	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, just a brief answer. As far as the Labour Act is concerned, I would once again like to point out that the law adopted in 2001 exclusively had one goal - to make the labour market a dynamic one. It was also an obligation that appeared before the government in 2014 and therefore there really is no difference between the laws that we adopted in 2001 and what was done in 2014. With every effort of today's government to make some distinction and the difference between us, the essence is very simple - it was not possible to develop the country economically without reforming labour law and we did so, of course, not past the union. I personally held talks with representative unions. The last one lasted nine hours. We got their consent. The same is true of the international organisation of work. Since there's no Mr. Antic here, I won't be too... (Alexander Antiquic: I'm here. ) Mr Antic, I don't know if it means anything to you that your party exists for 28 years and that the government in this country is 26, and since October 2000 to this day you've been in power for 16 years, so when you describe and talk about worker Rakovica, hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs, do you see any part of your own party about what you describe as an inheritance of the past. I remember on October 5th that "Rakovica" was empty, that the IMR did not work, that "Record" did not work, that "21 May" did not work. I remember she worked "Gallenika" until 2008, and I don't know if you see any part of your party in the fact that today's "Gallenika" was privatized as an economic ruins, and made us look like a tribe that came down from Karpat instead of a civilized people. We don't have our own pharmaceuticals anymore. As for “Azotara”,... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49713	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49714	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. ) National MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49715	I thank you, Chairman. I applied for the replica already after Mr Jovanovic's previous speech, but unfortunately, there was a interruption of the session and the break. The replica is simple, given that a number of incorrect data and allegations have been made, especially when it comes to so-called. The robbery privatisations, so I'm going to have to point to facts that no one can question. The first, from 2001 to 2009, was entered into Serbia no less than $128 billion in foreign investment to buy domestic enterprises. Where's the money? Where did that money appear in any financial flow or flows of the Republic of Serbia? Let's not forget, $128 billion means $13,000 per capita. The next fact no one can doubt, too, 2,400 privatisations, Mr. Jovanovic, have been implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49716	No personal address, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49717	Excuse me. So, of those 2,400 privatisations, 620 privatisations are broken. What does that mean? The country's response to a systemic robbery was a break-up of privatisation. Who's going to return the "Magnochroma" to the radiators? Who's going to return the machines to Magnochroma? Who's going to return Magnochrom to the condition he was in before the robbery privatisation when the Indian brothers came and picked everything up, to the urinal? Who's gonna get it back? Who will compensate for the harmful consequences that have arisen from these privatisations? The reminders work, a man who was director of CES Mekona, a consulting firm for all privatisations, became prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49718	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49719	I end up in the last sentence. (Kedomir Jovanovic: You chose him.) ) It is not true, but it is your prime minister whom you have left as director of CES Mekona, and at the same time appointed him prime minister. (Kedomir Jovanovic: I was against him. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49720	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovanovic reported for, I suppose, a replica to replicate on the subject of "Azotara" and talk about everything, except "Azotari", where the data and facts that I have presented are absolutely accurate and verifiable. In 2006 "Azotara" is privatized by 11 million and some euros, in accordance with these genius laws, to... (Kedomir Jovanovic: Whose government? In accordance with the great Privatization Act... that after that only one of the lines, see, the key – Karbamid 2, would be past consent and past any economic logic sold for 32 million and then “Azotara” devastated, because, defacto, took her soul, took the key line and then went into the abyss. Instead of overcoming the subject, we are now moving on to another topic and now a complete replacement of thesis is being carried out. I really don't look through pink glasses period and all the time the SPS was in power. It's a time filled with different challenges, good decisions, unfortunately and bad ones, ups and downs. I did not praise the time when the SPS was in power as an ideal time and beat myself into the chest as everything was great at the time, but rather on the contrary. We are forced here by the view that what this government is doing is the continuity of some of the good moves that took place after 2000. It's also about the Privatisation Act, and it's about the Labour Act. I am absolutely responsibly saying and I repeat once again, it absolutely does not stand and the greatest happiness for this society is that this government has complete discontinuity with this one disastrous policy that has destroyed Serbia's economy and economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49722	Thank you. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Replica. You have no right to the replica of your colleague Jovanovic. (Kadomir Jovanovic: I won't do it anymore, just to finish this. I'm sorry, if I'd given you the right now, past the rules. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure, Article 107) According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49723	I won't abuse the Rules of Procedure, I'll end up here. I think it took me 10 seconds just to answer, and there wouldn't be room for controversy at all. You mention the Prime Minister, Mirko Cvetkovic is your Prime Minister, you elected him here in the Assembly... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49724	Comrade Jovanovic, you have just entered the line. (Kadomir Jovanovic: I apologize. ( ) Article 107 would you like the Parliament in voting day to declare itself? (Kadomir Jovanovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Sandra Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, listening to the Ministers today, it is a real shame that we have a united debate on these 62 points, because here we have, in addition to the budget that is in fact the life of Serbia itself and the blood flow of Serbia, and a series of other very important laws that are also of great importance to the lives of Serbian citizens. There's a feeling that somehow everything is united, maybe from a publicist, I apologize, or because of some desire for certain laws to go under the radar like that. I have to admit, because of the material's abundance, I haven't been able to read everything, let alone get into everything, so what I've been reading and studying about it would give a certain insight. Before I start talking about a budget that should of course be the main topic, because the budget is, as I said, the blood flow of a country and life itself, I would like to say a few words about the draft law amending the law on the return of the seized property and the compensation. To translate, it's about the Restitution Act. The Law on Restitution passed one other assembly majority in 2011 in part in order to correct the injustice, although it is impossible to correct that injustice and kidnapping, but also in part, I would say largely, and because of the fulfillment of something that was a condition for Serbia's EU accession. It was then established that in 2013 and then after 2015, bonds were paid to those people who were owners who could not be returned to their property. At the time, the finance minister, Mr Vujovic, had so much cheek and courage to go to the citizens and say – we do not have money at this time and we cannot pay off the bonds. Now, I would say, they find some reasons as a little bit wrong that there are very many people, because there are 64,350 requirements that have not been properly completed, because the first-degree proceedings are under way, the proceedings are under appeal and the lawsuit and then the whole thing is re-longing for the next three years, and then the maturity that was due this year on 15 December is being transferred to 2021 and it says between 2021 and 2033 that these bonds will be paid. Then when the law was passed, it was also concluded that people 65 to 70 years of age have the advantage, but people who are 70 today will be over 80 years old in 2033, when these funds arrive. So, according to this argument, the bill still paints the system that everything works in this country for a while, and that is that everything that can be delayed is delayed by that people – What can you do the day after tomorrow, do not do tomorrow. He's pushing himself under the carpet, so this Restitution Act isn't the only law where we have a delay. We also have delays in some of the laws that are very important and also have ties to life in Serbia, as well as to the budget, and this is the bill on amendments to the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the AP and units of local self-government. It's actually postponing the pay grade. The draft law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, we have here practically in force and a further ban on employment. Furthermore, we have a draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System and a draft law amending the laws on salaries of employees in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the local self-government unit. So, we have a year-on-year delay here, because it's supposed to not be a catalogue of everything, all these things, and we can't go into the realisation of these laws, even though we know that in 2013, somewhere in this time or December of the month, it's promised to go into reform and that those reforms will take effect by now, and then 14, 15, etc. And here we are at the age of 18, and it's all delayed by 19. Also, under the radar goes somewhere the bill on the acquisition of property over land and facilities and lines of RTB Bora, where I understood this as a kind of Lex specialis, that now after all these years, decades of these reforms, all that belonged to the state, is now suddenly to belong to the company and to that part of the company that is under the Chinese administration. To be clear, I am very fond of the Chinese and the Republic of China and because of Kosovo and because of their culture and the role they play in the world at all, but I prefer Serbia and prefer the Serbian interest. Certainly this kind of Lex specialist will take our resources. It's called foreign investment. Mr Katic, Dr Katic says that what used to be, and that is the market and takeover of resources, which has been defined as colonialism, is today defined as foreign investment. Before the budget story, I would refer to two laws relating to education, it's patent law and, of course, even more laws on science. I repeat, I may have missed it somehow, welcoming certainly that there is a fund and learning special attention, I must say that I didn't understand, or it seems to me that there is a forgotten category of fundamental sciences. It's good to have science associated with the economy, but you have some fundamental sciences, like mathematics or like theoretical physics or theoretical chemistry, that can't connect to the economy. And it also seems to me that somehow they're not considered, at least not enough, social sciences that can't quantify and connect to the economy, but that are very important in some identity sense. I'd move on to the budget now. By listening to Minister Malloy, we could get the impression here that this is a historic budget, never better, never less public debt, surplus, raises wages. Some of those things really stand. However, I have tried a little hard, and I have read and what the other side says, what, say Mr. Boarov, what Dr. Katic, what Dr. Nikolic says, what does the Fiscal Council say, in the final, which is certainly one institution chosen here by this Assembly and which has so far provided support, but also, well-intentioned criticism and precisely that well-intentioned criticism I would look back on. I'm going to start with Mr. Boarov, who says -- it's good to give three directions towards supporting development, because it's support for development, which is that here, however, there's also a Fiscal Council that agrees somewhere. He says it's a good thing the wages are getting bigger. And I say, it is good that the wages are increased. A lot of people are leaving our country. The salaries are real, the salaries of doctors and medical staff are low and everyone else, both the military and the police and everyone. As for doctors and medical staff, I think we're pretty late here, because, well, only this year 800 specialists leave this country. But what, combined with this salary increase, doesn't somehow go and stings the eyes to be a complete success, is a ban on employment. We, with that employment ban, or the government with the employment ban, can raise salaries. But the question arises, again, who will treat us, who will work on many deficit jobs for which there is a very big need today? Besides, we're also increasing the outflow of young people abroad, because if you can't get a job, if you have a job ban again, you have no choice but to pack your bags and go abroad. As for reducing the burden on the economy, it is also a matter to be welcomed. The fiscal council had an idea and a recommendation that it be instead of 63 dinars on each table to be paid, or 163, to pay 60. But it was going to be 62 dinars, which is some kind of help, but it's not the help that could really produce results. As for the increase in public investment, I must say that this increase in public investment is more concentrated on the purchase of military equipment, including police equipment, but especially military equipment and what the journalist Vasovic said - armed the poor. Of course, I'm not against Serbia arming itself, but I think we have a lot of more pressing things than weapons, especially if we see the state of our infrastructure, because there's only 100 million separate for infrastructure now, and people in the Fiscal Council think 300 million would be a much better figure somewhere, which would be more working to raise infrastructure and general state in Serbia. Mr. Boarov makes a pretty good comment, saying that these capital investments that are being invested in and the money is being allocated are not being given in the building as much of the conukture as during the Socialist Yugoslavia, because today import materials are being built in, and so are many companies that get jobs, and then we have in Novi Sad, in the large centre of Lidlov, at the multinational centre of Promenade, we have Romanians working and Romanian workers. We have Russians reconstructing the track in the Cortanova tunnel. We've got Chinese on Corridor 11. We'll probably have the Bechtel, or the Americans on the Shumadian Corridor. So you don't get what you're supposed to get in terms of some conukture of the whole state. In particular, I would refer to the social budget, which this year is 22 billion dinars overall smaller than it was in the previous years, and at the same time, goods and services are purchased for more than 8.4% and the most services per contract and travel. Then, various subsidies that are more than 10.9% for corridors, for the Official Messenger, for the KIM Office, 7.1% goes to local communities, and not all, but just some, while at the same time, the pension fund decreases minus 2.4%. And what the Fiscal Council has also remarked is that the state remains without the law to regulate pensions, but that it will be some kind of charity, that -- three thousand for the lady, two thousand for the gentleman. When we see the social downfall, so that the funds for fighting and disability protection fall, for social protection, for financial assistance, for family accommodation, for other grants that are reduced, such as the settlement of employees in the event of bankruptcy, and most of all, the cost of carrying out the work of social protection institutions is reduced, and then all the angry that social workers are not doing their jobs properly, and we see that the money is being reduced and that the money for the welfare is, in fact, 31 billion, 32 billion is for labour contracts, and for travel is determined six billion. Three billion is the damages suffered by the state authorities, these are these tabloid arrests, and for the elemental disasters we have only 0.8 billion, for the elemental disasters, and for the refugees we also have 0.8 billion. So, I'd say the government here, when you look at where the budget is reduced, is quite a lack of awareness of social and irresponsibility, as far as this budget is concerned. Also, I'd say no capital investment is foreseen. I have to go slowly and finish. I will end up with Mr Katic's words, who said it was completely wrong to brag about GDP growth this year by 4.2, and that it would be 3.5 next year, because it would be realistic to see it a la long over at least 10 years and that those countries that have per capitas small GDP, and Serbia has below $5,000, unlike, say, the Czech Republic, which has almost $30,000 or Austria that has somewhere, it seems to me, $46,000, we can't boast of it. As for the public debt, which the minister says is reduced, Dr Katic says, I will quote him: "The much-advertised fall in public debt compared to GDP is in the domain of financial alchemy and could be called a triumph of the methodology over common sense." This budget has very few good sides, there are more bad sides and I'd say it's more electoral than developmental. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49726	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49727	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Just for the public, and for Mrs. Sandy to explain these things, and it's about the Fund Act. I am deeply grateful to the Ministry of Finance for accepting that we can enter now, a new year ago, into the budget law, for the Fund to have visible resources. And by the way, the Law on Science and Research, which is a roof law, has been completed. Until we had these two laws, these would be very soon, in the next meeting of the Assembly, we had a fight between researchers between DH fields and other sciences in 2016, so the project cycle was down, as you know. We managed to get young researchers through another form, but then it was solved through the rules. This regulation was primarily an insufficient legal act, and on the other hand, the concept of the fund itself is a concept that exists in many developed countries around the world, and it should in some way give the safety of researchers that they will be a fully independent fund, meaning that they will not depend on the ministry to the ministry, but rather as an entirely independent body that will have their own director, board of directors, supervisory board and who will have the opportunity to choose the best programmes. What's very important, so all fundamental sciences, social sciences, are protected. Because if you take this act of this law itself, under – fund programs, first program is development, second program is strategy, so ideas, etc. But in the development we're saying that basic and applied research programs, under basic research, I'm just thinking fundamental sciences, so they can all apply through the fund. Just to protect fundamental sciences and research in the DH field, it's the law that's over. Here, today we also received opinions from the ministries and legislation and he completed his procedure. There you will see that through the next budget, even now, in 2019, we are separating it, that our ministry as a parent will have certain funds that will now serve the safety of researchers who cannot go in this project way, that this is how they relate to the economy. As you know, we are taking a step with the 4.0 revolution, but the world is talking about 5.0, where certainly social science is something that precedes that part and we, by opening up first of all the research station in Trsic, have shown that after Petnica, after many years the state has invested in a centre that is not only linguistic but also an area of social science. This is just an explanation, so you know that in a better way we've thought about all the researchers in all the fields, but there's room for them in this fund. Chuck. There's one program, and that's what I end up with, it's called creativity, where art applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49728	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49729	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, just a few comments. So, on the question of the Return Act, you have heard yourself that at this point there are 64 thousand more unsolved cases, and precisely because of the principle of accountability, an additional deadline is needed to determine the exact amount of compensation, which is then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by law, determines so-called. Compensation coefficients. That is the only reason why we are waiting for a solution to these cases, in order to ultimately determine the right amount of compensation, and we are fully and fully committed to the final solution to this problem. Of course, when we know the total amount. There is no ban on employment in the Republic of Serbia on the relationship between pay increases in the public sector, burdens, i.e. reducing the burden on the economy and increasing investment. So where there's a need for additional employment, that's where people are hired. What is particularly important, exactly the measure aimed at increasing wages in the public sector should also contribute to making these people live better and not make a decision to leave our country, but to stay here and make their future and future of their family come true here. With regard to the budget for the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs, I think it's just a question here, I don't want to say ignorance, there is a need for clarification, so the Ministry of Labour and Employment's 2019 budget is higher by a billion and 65 million dinars compared to 2018. What this is about, which may not be clear, was the 2018 budget of 149.2 billion, and there were 23.4 billion transfers of the PIO to the insurance internship and to the minimum pension compensation. The transfer is now in agreement with the IMF and in agreement with the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs has been transferred to a division of the finance ministry. So the rights remain the same. It's just a technical distribution of these appraisals and distributions, but when you add both rights, you come to a bigger budget in 2019 than in 2018 for a billion and 65 million dinars, which shows exactly how much we are committed to helping those who need our help most, with the many rights that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has introduced this year. It's exactly the budget for this ministry that paints it. In the end, should we brag about GDP or not? I'll tell you, at this point, in the first nine months, we have a GDP growth projection of 4.5%. By the end of the year, we are projecting a 4.2% growth, and I will now read to you the European Commission projections on the GDP growth rate by the end of the year of countries in the environment and some other countries in Europe. So, the growth rate projection in Bosnia is 3.0%, in Bulgaria 3.5%, in Croatia 2.8%, in Macedonia 2.1%, in Montenegro 3.9%, in Romania 3.6%, in the Czech Republic 3.0%, in Estonia 3.5%. So, if we achieve a GDP growth rate by the end of the year of 4.2 or 4.3%, yes, I think we should be proud of that growth rate. I think we should brag about that growth rate. This is a huge difference from the growth rates that the Serbian economy had in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 minus 3.1 or 3.6, minus one, growth of 0.4%. Now we're on the right track. The Serbian economy is on the right track for recovery. The high growth rates of this year give us the right to be optimistic for the following year, and especially because the 2019 budget is designed to enable further implementation of these growth rates through raises of wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49730	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49731	Dear People's MPs, very short. During her discussion, Mrs. Raskovic Ivić showed a degree of concern that because of the number of points on the agenda in this debate, a number of legal projects will remain in some way below the total public radar. For this very reason, during the opening presentation, I gave one broader context related to the point that you cited among others, as a point for which you have this dose of concern, and it is related to the acquisition of property rights on land, facilities and lines of the Mining-Topionary Baseline RTB Bor. So, quite the contrary, I have just pointed out that point with a special one accent to be in full public focus and that absolutely all MPs, but also the general public, would understand that as part of the process in which we are located, and regarding the choice of a strategic partner for RTB Bor, we also adopt this law. This law, I must say, no matter how many elements of Lex specialis, it is primarily a law that, technically, solves the years and decades of problems that we have in our books, not just in Bor, but in all of Serbia. Defacto, he answers questions on how to now organise the joint company in its next period of ownership over certain buildings and a part of the land on which there are different bases on which RTB Bor is registered today. Unfortunately, you know the state of our books. You know where all the pastures are, so there are also in downtown Belgrade, there are pastures and where mining works are performed. Also, RTB Bor is on some important segments, which are necessary to carry out its mining work by the holder with the right to use over property that is state-owned, which is social, which is mixed. So, a whole diapazon of different legal situations over land used by defacto, which is essentially owned by RTB Bora, is only run differently in books, and we do this by this law, but I have to pay particular attention to what you've commented on that we give or give or leave to someone, whatever the formulation is, our natural wealth, I'm paying you attention to two segments. One is in Article 5 of this Act which states - establishing property rights in favour of RTB within the meaning of this Act does not refer to real estates that are good of general interest and good in general use and in public property in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing public property. So absolutely this law does not come out of the public property law and what cannot be in that kind of property will absolutely not go into that property and Article 5 explicitly says that. It's one segment, and the other segment for which I appreciate from your discussion that it is to you, but far more important to all of us is the mineral wealth. Therefore, Zijdin will acquire 63% of the ownership of RTB Bor by payment of $350m in mid-December. RTB Bor is neither an RTB nor any other mining company in Serbia, the owner of our mineral raw materials. RTB has licenses and the right to explore and exploit copper and other noble metals it deals with. So "Zidjin" absolutely doesn't become the owner of any milligrams of our natural wealth. They don't become owners of copper or gold. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the absolute owner of all natural raw materials, all mineral wealth of the Republic of Serbia is the Republic of Serbia. Companies at that level can only have the right to exploit in accordance with the Mining Act in accordance with programmes that we approve by paying for the Republic of Serbia's mines under the law. So, I absolutely assure you, there is no reason to worry. All the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia are absolutely preserved in this process, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this process is truly, absolutely confident, one of the highest interests in the Republic of Serbia, which will make the benefits of eastern Serbia, which will relive in full capacity, but also in whole Serbia, because RTB with new energy and new investments with a billion and 260 million dollars in investment in mining and processing will become one of the most significant pillars of our overall economic development, and that would end there. Today, mining in Serbia participates in GDP with around 1%. When this investment cycle is completed in RTB and the process is rounded up with the project "Cukari Peki Timok" only copper production will participate in our GDP by 5%. So mining will no doubt become the most dynamic segment of our overall development, I deeply believe in the satisfaction and great success of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49732	I thank Minister Antic. (Sanda Raskovic Ivić: Replica. You do not have the right to reply to a colleague, Raskovic Ivić. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49733	Thank you, Chairman. Before I begin my presentation, I would like to show the citizens of Serbia what the agenda looks like. This, respected citizens of Serbia, looks like the 62nd item of the agenda put into one item of the agenda of the debate, which means that we from the opposition, which should be speaking critically against the government, because it is our job to point out not everything that the government does wrong, we have a little less than 20 seconds to speak under each law of this 62th bill, counting the most important law in a calendar assembly year, which is the Budget Act for next year. What I want to say right now is that Dvori is not an opposition to the state of Serbia, but the Dveri are opposition to the ruling SNS and SPS regime and it is our obligation to support everything that is good, but even more to criticise everything that is bad, and there are many in the ranks of the current government. I would specifically call this budget for 2019 a superhic budget or a classic progressive budget that includes – take away the poor and give to the rich. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49734	I give you a warning, Mr. Beard. Please keep budget estimates and any other law within the framework of politeness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49735	Dear Chairman, you may not have read the famous cult comic book Alan Ford, but anyone who read it knows what it means when you compare someone to Superhik who was famous for taking from the poor and giving to the rich. You didn't let me finish what I meant by that. Mr. Sinisha Mali, the current finance minister will understand me perfectly. So how did the current government stabilise financial opportunities in Serbia, how did it consolidate the state register? By robbing her own people. Reduce wages and pensions, raise taxes, taxes, excise taxes, raise taxes on property, increase fuel prices in Serbia and so take from your people and place them in the state register, and then give their friends from foreign multinational companies who come to Serbia and subsidize with national government money every new job they have. That's how pensioners were mostly damaged. So 850,000 of them that were robbed for four years for 850m euros. Public sector employees who were also robbed of pay cuts were damaged. Farmers who have reduced subsidies from 14 to 4 thousand dinars and who do not have regressed diesel fuel have been damaged. They pay the most expensive diesel fuel in Europe, and that is their basic means of working in agriculture. Of course, the state of Serbia has also been damaged by this sale of our natural and economic wealth because this is the first government that sells both mineral wealth and agricultural land and river streams, sources of clean drinking water and that is something that is absolutely inadmissible. What I want to say here today and so to perform for every single thing that I will criticise the current government, I will also offer a solution to what the Serbian Movement Dveri and what the Alliance for Serbia, as the largest opposition group currently in Serbia, would do if we were currently in power. As far as pensioners, Dveri and the Alliance for Serbia are concerned, they will be compensated for everything they had been robbed in the previous four years during the period of provisional retirement payment. So, pensioners can be calm, the future power that comes after Alexander Vukic's fall from power, headed by the Two and the Alliance for Serbia, will make up for what the SNS robbed them, which is to remind them of 850m euros and 850,000 pensioners robbed. As for farmers, we will increase subsidies for agricultural production and all that this government gives to foreign companies we will reroute to support domestic economy and agriculture. And I commit myself to you on behalf of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora and the Alliance for Serbia in general. We will also reduce excise duties on fuel, because this robbery is unacceptable for Serbian citizens with such an abnormal fuel price, where the excise price is 55%, which means the state can affect the price of fuel, but it won't. The state wants to continue the robbery of its citizens. What I also want to point out here is that we are going to nationalize everything that has been robbed of this nation by burazer schemes and combinations with your friends from foreign companies, for which you are selling RTB Bor or PKB or Belgrade Airport, and all of this must be returned to the state of Serbia, and they will be justly compensated. All that they have invested will be returned to them, but they will not be able to manage Serbian natural and economic wealth, it will be able to be managed by only the state of Serbia and it will be able to be owned exclusively by Serbian citizens. What I particularly want to stress is exactly the domestic businessmen you've forgotten. Nowhere do you mention them, nor do you notice that millions of people in Serbia are working in small and medium-sized enterprises, that some employers here have huge obligations to the state, that taxes are abnormally large and that you give everything for foreign companies, and very little or almost nothing domestic. It could have been a much more significant reduction in employee earnings, i.e. taxes and contributions to employee earnings could have been much more supportive through subsidies both through tax relief and through export guarantees, and through favourable loans to domestic economy and domestic agriculture, not that you have in the first place an exclusively foreign investor who is protected here as a white bear. I remind you that recently, a great friend of yours, a foreign investor, of the German company "Serfud" from Smederev fled Serbia by closing her plant in Smederevo, which was otherwise built with the funds of the town of Smederev, which took a 300 million dinar loan to build a hall for this German company. Alexander Vukic himself handed the keys to this German company, but now he's gone when this German company escaped from Smederev without fulfilling its contractual obligations. She was obliged to hire 300 people. She never hired 300 people. She hired 65 people first, and fell to 25 people, who were eventually thrown out onto the street, were told via the "viber" group that the company no longer exists and that the lock was placed on the company "Serfud" in Smederev. I haven't seen Alexander Vukic come to the closing of this German company, as he was at the opening. Let's not talk about all this just me as the opposition critic of the government, but let's see what the Fiscal Council says about everything. That's interesting. Here, let's start with a key finding of the fiscal council. The budget process continues to be disrupted, the budget's final account is not adopted and the budget calendar is being broken. The key finding of the Fiscal Council – for years back, the public has no information on how budget-planned funds are really spent. Imagine, therefore, you do not tolerate the final budget account. Serbian citizens don't know how the people's money you planned for the budget was spent. Furthermore, the Fiscal Council supports what Dvori has criticised here – that it is pointless for the government to decide on reducing and increasing pensions and that pensions under the law must be consistent with the cost of living on an annual basis. So that's where we were right, and that confirms the fiscal council in its analysis of this budget. The most important thing that the Fiscal Council confirms, and the bottom line is all I've been telling you about the economy for two and a half years here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Says the Fiscal Council in its summary – the proposed budget for 2019 does not foresee sufficient effective measures for the necessary acceleration of economic growth. So there is no measure in your budget to speed up economic growth in Serbia and that is the essence of this whole story. I'd like to highlight here another comment given by the Fiscal Council, I think it's significant, which is why I've marked it. Says the Fiscal Council, one of the biggest problems with the 2019 draft budget, is that it did not recognise the need to increase public investment in environmental protection. Big deal, here's why. Serbia's decades-long under-investment still does not have the basic structure in the area. Waste water is not cleaned in the largest cities, such as Belgrade or Novi Sad, almost no waste dumps that meet sanitary standards. Nearly half of the public water supply has no proper drinking water, and about two and a half million citizens live in areas with excessively polluted air dangerous to health. So, what's the role of the Fiscal Council, if you don't listen to it at all, and you don't respect its valuable advice. He also said there was no courage to bring pay grade, that you had put it off again, but we're used to you not fulfilling your pre-election and any other promises. What I particularly want to stress is the price of fuel, the most painful topic that makes all of Paris burn, because the citizens of France object to the robbery that their government makes at the price of fuel. Here's what you did with the excises on the oil derivatives in 2019. You're increasing them by 23 million. The increase in excise duties on oil derivatives next year has increased as much as 100m euros compared to 2017 and 200m euros compared to 2016. On the other hand, the new 15 billion dinars of our money are given to foreign investors, again "Fiat", again "Teklas", again "Johnson Electric", again "Leoni", again "Er Serbia". So, still Serbian citizens fund your foreign companies, why, if they do business in plus? What if they work well in Serbia? The more we give them our money? Why don't we give our budget money to our businessmen and farmers? That's a question you haven't had an answer to in six years. On the other hand, of course, the family suffers in Serbia, suffers the rights of users in the field of protection of families and children, 11m euros less than the minister announced here when adopting the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Elevenm euros less give for users' rights in the area of protection for families and children. To be precise what your budget structure looks like. Like this, compared to the previous one, i.e. In the 2019 budget, you predicted 40% more for you, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 84% more money for the General Secretariat of the Government, 18% more money for the Prime Minister's Office, 72% more money for the Air Service of the Government, 160% more for the courts next year because of the penalty and poor work of the corrupt judiciary in Serbia, 18.2% more for the BIA, 7% more for expenses for the use of services and goods and believe it or not, also 2.8 billion more for services under contract, where you will naturally employ your party soldiers. Of course, there are reductions, you have reduced the budget fund for the 50% restitution, you have reduced issues for the Office for Co-operation with Serbs in the region and the division by 5%, you have reduced funds to the Anti-Corruption Agency by 30%, which is correct, otherwise they do nothing. Let's see, now you're just making a register of employees at the Ministry of Finance, 425 million. The extraction of the sinking German fleet from World War II 178 million. Gondola in Belgrade 862 million, BIA capital projects 389 million. The reconstruction of two villas, villas Mir and another one in Belgrade, I believe, for Vukic, Nikolic and others from SNS 53m dinars. The only thing I support is the detachment of new prison units in Zabela, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade County Prison and a new prison in Kragujevac. There is a need for this, especially when you fall from power and when we question your responsibility, crime and corruption and when as a Alliance for Serbia in power, and the Dvori promise you this, we pass a law on the examination of the origin of the property of all function holders from 1990 to today. As I recall, ten times Alexander Vukic promised the adoption of a law on the origin of property investigation and was missing for six years. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia one genius thing I saw on TV the other day. I look at one of our TV stations, I see one familiar face, but I can't remember how I know a man. I see a tour of some agricultural households, talking to farmers, coming to some stands, talking to citizens in a crowded hall, when I remember, Miroslav Miskovic, man. Miroslav Miskovic, with a member of the SNS presidency Bosko Nicic, talks about agriculture in Zajecar, and then I see Aleksandar Vukic in the show "Eye" on RTS, says – well, of course he asked me about Bosko Nicic and I told him how not to, why not, Miroslav Miskovic has the right to run the SNS campaign in the town of Zajecaru. Miroslav Miskovic, the same one that Siniš Mali was toasting when they celebrated the anniversary of Delta Holding, wait, the same one you accused of being the biggest tycoon, criminal and thief in the state of Serbia, who you held for months in prison. Why don't you go out now and say - excuse me, Mr. Miskovic, so we were wrong, you are a very nice man, you could also be Minister of Government Aleksandra Vukic and Ana Brnabic, you could help us see how to solve Serbian agriculture, as Miroslav Miskovic now personally participates in the SNS campaign in Zajecar together with Mayor Bosko Novic. Finally, just a few more important notes. First of all, an absolutely inadmissible increase in subscription to RTS and RT Vojvodina. There is no reason for Serbian citizens to pay to watch Alexander Vukic at public media services every evening. Also, there's no reason to allow REM any additional funds, because REM long ago had to lift the national frequency of Pink TV, to ban reality shows, but it just didn't do it and I don't see why he would get extra funding from the budget. Of course, I mean in the end, that other laws here are controversial, there are many. The problem of restitution that you're rescheduling, the law on radiation and nuclear security where we've received a lot of memos, to question the moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants and the disposal of nuclear waste. There are problems with the import and export law of dual-use goods where you obviously allow again your foreign partners to import and do whatever they want here in the state of Serbia. There's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Property Act that you haven't signed yet, you don't have a list of public property. There are bankruptcy laws where the same thing still works, that privileged bankruptcy managers, privileged bankruptcy trusts, privileged lawyers and law offices do whatever they want. We also have objections to the Service Act, where the proposal is controversial, with it you translate the lawyer into a service activity etc. So there's a lot of objections, but how to say it for every law in 20 seconds. What I can finally say is that the Alliance for Serbia and the Serbian Movement Dvori will do the opposite. So, we will ban the sale of our agricultural land, we will ban the import and transport of GMOs and seeds, we will abolish this unfair system of public executioners, we will bring these banking dericoces to more reliable rights and we will instead be super hicks, like you who rob the poor and give the rich, additionally to tax the rich and extra profits, foreign companies, tycoons and banks that tear the skin off the back of Serbian citizens. Finally, we will pass a law on the protection of over-indebted families, allowing citizens in local referendums to decide where they will go from property tax and ultimately, we will pass a law on the origin of the property, and the first to be questioned under the new law, will be leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. Well, the first origin of Boško Obradovic, and Dragan Djilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and in turn all public office holders from 1990 until today, let's see who robbed this people and the state and that whoever robbed this people and the state illegally acquired property, even if it was the brothers Mali and brothers Vukic and Goran Vesic and any of the current leading SNS figures. So it's time to draw a line and know who robbed this people and the state over the past 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49736	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49737	Thank you very much. I would refer to several comments that we had the opportunity to hear, especially those that are important, regarding the fiscal council of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to take the opportunity to thank all the members of the Fiscal Council for their very constructive and good co-operation in the previous period and for the citizens of Serbia, I want to get to know the legal summary of the Fiscal Council for the 2019 budget. The résumé says and I quote -- the expected low fiscal deficit, it is appropriate for Serbia since it ensures achieved macroeconomic stability, low inflation and a stable rate of dinar, and in the coming year will lead to a further decrease in public debt participation compared to GDP. The second good feature of the proposed budget is that it is credible, i.e. the revenues and expenditures of the Republic are in principle realistically planned. Furthermore, Serbia has a balanced budget. For Serbian citizens, this is the most important summary of the fiscal council's findings, given that for the first time we have stable finances, for the third year in a row we have a fiscal surplus in our budget, we have a stable inflation rate, 2.3% of the annual inflation rate this year, compared to 12, 13, 14 which were only in 2013. That's a huge difference. We have a stable rate of dinars, compared to the euro, it changes, but changes at the expense of the euro, and in favour of the dinars, which has never happened before. What is particularly important, the 2019 budget, according to the Fiscal Council, is designed to allow us to further reduce public debt participation in our GDP, which is the most important or most important feature of the 2019 budget. As for the rate of growth, I was just talking about it, I think we should be proud of the rate of growth achieved for the first nine months of this year. So our economy has grown 4.5% this year in the first nine months. I just compared other countries in the environment and some other EU countries, so we have a higher growth rate than they have, which is very important. In the 2019 budget right through the increase in wages and pensions, therefore, through an increase in the standard of living of Serbian citizens, through a high growth of 30% more public investment in 2019 than in 2018, we want to encourage further increase in investment in infrastructure and on the third hand, through a reduction in labour burden and through large tax incentives. These are three elements and three characteristics of our budget that should further boost the growth of the Serbian economy. What the Fiscal Council is saying is, we need to do more work on that and we agree, but only these three measures are already somewhere around 220 billion are investments, fiscal discharges of 20, 30 billion, reduction of the payload. So these are already huge steps forward that need to encourage our economy to be more competitive, more attractive, and that's the first step for us. It's very important to point out, and I heard earlier about the fact that we have never been less, or that we have not anticipated investments in the protection of the environment. I want to draw attention to Article 3. The budget law, perhaps no one has seen it, 200m euros for the Ministry of Environmental Protection for Construction, unless I'm wrong, 60th and some wastewater treatment plants. That's exactly what we're missing and that's exactly what's in the budget for next year. Finally, if we heard a statement from the "Alan Ford" comic book, I would also like to finish with "Alan Ford" and say – if you intend to win, don't lose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49738	Comrade Orlic, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49739	Mr. Coordinator was talking about Alan Ford. There's a guy named Gumiflex. This Gumiflex has turned from fascists to jilasovci. And the story of the origin of the property, he will examine when he comes to power with his criminals and thieves who have sickened Serbia, then he will say, to examine the origins of the assets of all of us from the SNS. Yesterday, one of the leaders of that new coalition responded as a witness to the New York court about his mob ties with Mr. Patrick Hoe, who was his time minister of the Hong Kong Interior. According to Patrick Hoa himself, Vuk Jeremic is employed by one company, I believe his name is CFC, where he received 660,000 euros in two years. To remind Mr. Coordinator how his leader, Dragan Gilas, got rich. He became rich in the coat of arms of Serbian citizens by achieving millions of euros in sales and trading for seconds right on RTS and precisely on realistic programmes that he has brought to the Republic of Serbia. The reality programs didn't bother him at the time, because he was co-owner of one of the TVs that broadcast reality programs. What Mr. Coordinator won't admit, and I have to say because of the citizens of Serbia, when the co-ordinator's friends were in power, Mr. Arsic, I'm going to give only one example, it's been a session of the National Assembly since 5 May 2010, those who cry that they didn't have enough time to read material, bill proposals, etc. At a session of 5 May 2010, co-ordinators' friends, so Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Shane Petrovic and everyone else joined 94 agenda points, it was a session of 5 May 2010, you, Mr Arsic, remember that, and you had, for example. Law confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kuwait, to the Law on PIO.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49740	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49741	Then, Dragan Gilasu, Vuk Jeremic and other thieves and criminals who destroyed Serbia did not mind bringing 94 agenda points together.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49742	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49743	At that time, they did not bring bill proposals to the Assembly and show Serbian citizens how much they had to read the material. That was great, that was European, that was democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49744	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49745	Let me finish. Most of these draft laws are in the assembly procedure for more than two months and it is not true that the material was obtained three days before the session began. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49746	The word has been made by the People's MP, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49747	I apologize, I speak as someone who has proposed one of the laws that apparently some MPs have not even read or need to say something like that. But that law was written by the profession, and then I don't expect the MPs to make any sense of anything, not to mention it. We have heard the sea here of false allegations, not only of the law I have proposed, I am the legislator, I did not write it, it was written by the profession, and I am proud to say it, and as an MP, I have the right to propose a good law. It's amazing that an MP gets up here and talks about the Service Act as something we put on the agenda here. The service law is not on the agenda at all, even withdrawn from the congregation procedure. And, well, that's the only fact that says that an MP who spoke a few times ago here doesn't know what he's talking about, he hasn't prepared himself, he doesn't know what we have on the agenda. And really, poor thing is my law enforcement profession if she ever spoke to an MP to help them with something about the Services Act. Here, I am convinced that Serbia's Bar Association had no contact with this MP, Vojvodina's bar even less. Did someone from the Belgrade organization talk to him, perhaps, but at their party sessions, knowing that one of them is now in the movement for all sorts of things and trying to understand the philosophy of Alan Ford and what Minister Mali said, I'm afraid they didn't understand anything because they laughed that if you intend to win, you shouldn't lose. But they keep losing, losing and losing and never learning anything, and that's at least getting ready for the session when you want to criticize something. As for what was said that Smederev had borrowed a loan to help open a factory, I would suggest that the MP make a good inquiry into his current political environment about how loans were previously taken and all kinds of jobs. I'm just going to tell him something that has little touch points with this law that I've proposed, and it's a little bit to study how and when the Public Enterprise "Nuclear Objects of Serbia" started in 2009, and how they took one huge loan tomorrow morning to do a dirty job here in this country. So I recommend to my colleagues when they run to criticize and say something, that they prepare immediately to know what kind of answer they'll get back, or that you won't be able to keep things quiet. I would really recommend that you shut up about this. As far as Serbian citizens are concerned, it is important not to leave the sentence that some law should now allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Serbia. This is such a dangerous nonsense that has been said here, that a long time ago, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia did not have the opportunity to hear. That's amazing. I know that, let's say, the paper suffers everything, it probably suffers air and everything, but that you Serbian citizens are intimidated by such nonsense that one law allows the construction of nuclear power plants today in Serbia, so it's a joke. But, you know what, you need to have a little depth, a little width, education, so when you're getting ready to see what laws still exist in our country. A law banning the construction of nuclear power plants back in Yugoslavia, which is valid here in Serbia, has long banned the construction of both nuclear power plants and the construction of a nuclear fuel plant. In Article 4 of the Law, which you probably only took from the first page, so you said, "Yeah, now I'm going to slap something about this, so that it stays recorded, so in Article 4, it's exactly that law where this is forbidden. Read the law and then get up and say something meaningful, if you can do it at all, and I say to you: practice, keep practicing so that one day you really stop losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49748	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49749	Article 107 and question of dignity. You have seen, Mr Arsic, but you understand that it was a full system, and related to what Bosko Obradovic, this co-ordinator of all MPs, Dragan Gilas and their alliance for the fundamental destruction of Serbia, said here. I think it's a matter of dignity when a man comes in here and talks about complete nebulosis, for example. about tycoon Miskovic and explains how fascinated he is by the topic of some campaigns, so he sees them. What's fascinated by the topic of the campaign, I understand. In three municipalities, out of four, how many elections this December, his, Gilasov, Jeremic, Obradovic and the union of the "yellow company", will not even appear. And why won't they? Because they can't get two signatures to file a list somewhere, let alone get a vote in those elections. But not to worry, there won't be any difference in the effect in those three municipalities where they won't even show up, and in this fourth one, because in the fourth, in Luciani, citizens know very well that they've all devastationed thoroughly, however they could and could, at a time when they were burning and burning, even with that community, that at least 2,000 brothers, people without work have left. And that's where they'll go just like they don't show up. As for Miskovic, I can't remember when that man, he was, became the subject of the interest of the authorities. It kind of turns out just when Alexander Vukic, who you can't think of, got a chance to take care of this country. It's not the time of Dragan Gilas. Do you know what Miroslav Miskovic was doing with Dragan Gilas, who then financed you, you from Dveri, among other things, and these from the Democratic Party, he did little and robbed while he was leading them? That's when Miskovic had a joint business with Gilas. If you're interested in anything on the subject of Miskovic, ask Gilas. Nobody knows that better than Gilas because, together, there were these two giants, these big quitters, the benefactors, they were holding newspapers, they were together in the news business. That Miskovic later confessed, and Gilas is denying it today. But you see what, these others admit. He's kind of getting away from them, so they say. Ask Tadic who confessed publicly. "Yes," he says, "we knew that Gilas and Miskovic were business associates and partners." Ask, and let him explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49750	Bring it to the end, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49751	More sentence, Mr. Arsic. At the same time, if you want to deal with reality, ask Gilas about who introduced reality, who left children without what belongs to them because of reality and ask your Leprechaun, he's probably pretty and wise and as politically important as you, and in reality he understands almost as well as you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49752	Comrade Orlic, I'm going to have to subtract two minutes from the MP's group's time, because this was a replica, though. He has the word, as a proposer, the People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49753	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear a lot of topics, starting with Alan Ford, until the motion for a decision to give consent to changes in individual expenditures without changing the total expenditure on the REM's financial plan should be adopted. What does that mean? This means that the amount of funds has not changed at all, that within the items and essentially REM they have changed certain positions and that shows, essentially, that whoever wanted to talk did not want to hear or read the agenda point. REM is an institution that is responsible for the work of the Serbian Parliament. She has, therefore, not receiving money from the budget, she acquires funds available freely on the market on the basis of a fee for media services. And that price of compensation hasn't changed, but it's changed the way they have within themselves financial resources and positions. By allowing and harmonising the amendment, the Committee thus allowed REM to actually use certain means in accordance with the law. Otherwise he couldn't use it. So there's no increase in funds. It's very important that we tell the truth when we're talking about some points of the agenda at all. And we've been listening today, not just about REM, but we've heard about the Fiscal Council saying something, and in fact he's quite the opposite, then we've heard about the restitution that we've reduced funds as a state, which doesn't stand at all, because 64,000 people are waiting to complete the proceedings, because they simply can't get the documentation that relates to the property, the parcel numbers end because of some bad diameters and precalculations of the catastrases that have been behind us for many years. Secondly, we have a story about the "Peace" villa being reconstructed for the sake of being someone. If you don't know, foreign delegations are guests of all the residential facilities, not individuals. So don't deceive the people here when you're talking about a topic, and you don't know what you're talking about at all, but you're only talking about making marketing to your new alliance, in some archaic way, mentioning some money and some embezzlement money that just isn't proven at first, and secondly they don't exist. But in fact, you always go from yourself, because you who are your partners and those families and mothers have damaged, because the budget of the city of Belgrade has been damaged by 1,200,000. More than 200,000 remain unpaid for maternity benefits in Belgrade by 2013. So you first have to ask your president, or mentor, Mr. Gilas, how he had the money? Where's that 300,000-euro money that went through his companies? Where did only 25,000,000 remain on his property? Where's your other money? So you just have to get into the analysis of your party partners with whom you represent that alliance. And, after all, if you want to deal with a subject like Alan Ford, there's a guy called No One. He says he's simply talking about what you promise not to promise, but to do. Well, that's what we do. We do not promise much, but that is why we are doing a job from which Serbian citizens really see results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49754	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica, pal. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have broken your own record from the parliamentary majority, sixty-two points of the agenda in the debate you have brought together into one. It strengthens your work efficiency. You will formally vote everything, and it will turn out that a democratic decision has been made. But he has wiped out the spirit of democracy from this congregation. There's no such thing in the world. One day it will be written about this assembly meeting where 62 points of the agenda, including the budget law, were possible to unite in the debate. And, the debate actually cannot be conducted in quality, instead of what one expert said today, a month to conduct a debate only on the budget. To search the budget to the point. Nothing's really going to get searched here, and it's not even possible to do that. We haven't seen the final budget account this year either. Six years of your authority, no final account has been considered for a year, has been adopted. Of course, you have an excuse that the Dosmanli government has not submitted the final budget account for nine years. But is the Dosmanian rule a form of reputation for you? That's what this is about. You can call on each other all the time. It's not them, neither will we. Is that something you can look up to? Is that something to compare? It shouldn't be. The reconstruction of the government has been announced for months, so it is said, when it happens, when it happens, and when it happens. And here we are, entering the 2019 budget and still no reconstruction. Is that a good idea? Was it much better to reshuffle the government, then make a budget? Rumors are being made, some press releases say emergency elections can be expected in the spring. You are not going to go to these new elections with the government, whose composition will be Rasim Ljajic, Zorana Mihajlović, Zlatibor Lončar and three others, four. Is that a smart move? Can you go to the election with them? I'm glad you're going to go to the election with them, as things stand now, and you're going to get hit with the head. We have many of these items of budget that are unsaid, which are incomplete. We have funding for everything and everything, but we don't have everything exactly listed. So, that's a lot of order compared to earlier budget laws. By coming to power six years ago, you had a much bigger life, if that's how Natasha remembers it, I was on a business trip. I fought to get one of the most important titles of my life, so I managed to get it. And now you're starting to cover up individual budget fees with general items. You plan, among other things, to fund the Council of National Minorities, minority councils. That's fine, but can you form any minority advice? Can you finance it? Can you finance the Bosniak minority council that President Esad Juge is in? Esad Djuge, who advocated Serbia's further secession and division and published a map of the split and has always been against Serbia as a state, has always had hostile positions in terms of the survival of Serbia and its territorial integrity and sovereignty. Of course, Serbia is a democratic state, so it can allow verbally and such ideas to be presented, but whether Serbia as a state can finance such ideas and whether Serbs can allow Rasim Ljajic to remain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade and Telecommunications even though he was elected with his support by Esad Djudz as president of the Bosniak National Council. It was voted by the organisation "Vakat je" political organisation, which directly stands behind Rasim Ljajic, and showed it in the campaign. He kept telling us, we, we at all their gatherings. There is no doubt, therefore, that he is directly behind it. By the way, earlier, it was on the gun and knife with Sulejman Ugljanin, who accused each other of killings and Rasim Ljajic of ordering the murders of some of the people who were Ugljanin's, that some of the murders were committed. All of this was on these televisions whose editors are Muslims, or whose owners are Muslims. You can find a lot on the Internet, so I don't tell you the details. So, can this National Council, while having a president like this, be financed from the state budget? I was here yesterday asking the Minister of the Interior, the minister wasn't, he was probably busy. Well, maybe he was really busy, I don't doubt it, but yesterday I didn't get to tell you something, which is very important, I'm going to tell you today. Our minister is a scientist, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic is a doctor of science, it is a well-known fact, and as a doctor of science, one of the branches of social science, it would be normal to regularly monitor one of the world's most innovative scientific journals called "Difens en forin elfes strategic policy". That magazine shows, for example. An article by Gregory Kopria, on terrorism in the Balkans, said that Rasim LJajic, before 2004, was the subject of world science, world legal and political sciences, so important in world criminal circles, in mob circles. Here's what the magazine says -- well-positioned Muslim sources show that the brother of a federal minister of Serbia-Montenegro, based in Novi Pazar, is a town in southern Serbia and acts as a key man in the drug trade business. These sources argue that other cabinet members and low-ranking officials also benefit from paying off a drug racket. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49756	Comrade Seselj, we're talking budget. Please return to the agenda. (Vojislav Seselj: This is a topic. In what part? (Vojislav Seselj: This is the topic, in the part where you finance the Bosniak National Council, led by Esad Judja. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49757	Well, I've convinced you that I haven't gone off the subject of the agenda. Where am I supposed to get off the agenda? So it also provides logistics for the movement of terrorists and weapons. How many times has it been since our customs authorities seized the coolant with beef slaughtered 20 years ago, which arrived via Albania, the cabinet of Rasim Ljajic, the minister of trade, let it go. It's all been recorded, so just laugh. The last one to laugh is the cutest one to laugh. If I'm lying, world science doesn't lie. Do I have anything to do with Gregory Copr? It says a lot about me, but it doesn't say that I'm a criminal, that I'm a drug addict, that I'm a thief, that I steal, that I rob, etc., or that I work against my country. (Muamer Bacevic: You've been working for decades, you work constantly, you've driven the Serbs out of your hearth.) ) So, Bačevac, brother of Serbia, shut up a little bit. It doesn't suit you as a Serb that you're so nervous. We have many other arguments. The Anti-Corruption Council, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency, is further funded. I followed the work of both those bodies and until today I didn't understand the difference. Why do we have those two bodies? We used to have Verica Barać, she was in absolutely different ideological positions than mine, but everyone appreciated her for her personal honesty and for her uncompromisingly revealing various corruption affairs, above all, regarding the Dosman regime. When you advances came to power, Tomislav Nikolic immediately posthumously decorated Verica Barac. And after that, no affair on that 24-list has ended, and your leaders, including Tomislav Nikolic, have fallen into deep corruption. Be careful, you have an item in the budget here, although you do not know how to hide it, that the 800-square state villa in which Tomislav Nikolic still lives is also held, based on the Serbian government's regulation. The man invested a million euros to build his wife and himself a mausoleum in Bajcetina, and here the state pays him seven, eight thousand euros each month to maintain the state villa he lives in. Instead of making money on that villa, he rents it to a foreign embassy, etc. You formed an absolutely unnecessary state body, where he hired some of his accompanying elements, some co-operation body with Russia and China. Alexander Vukic never took him to Russia or China when he went to important talks and agreements. That's 53 million a year, that's how much he's reached. Don't do it, stop it. You have a very comfortable majority in the National Assembly and you think these things will pass in the National Assembly. They will, but at least they don't pass in history. This will be remembered, this will be written. More will be written about this than how much each of you is responsible for the proper work of the ministry, if there are any merits. I don't know, and I don't have much to conclude, and I don't even have a chance to talk about it enough. You see, you have the Restitution Agency, which returned everything that could have been returned. She never filed a report with the National Assembly, no one ever looked into how many of these institutions were taking bribes, taking a percentage of those who were being returned to real estate, and now it was their turn to pay off in cash. From what? From the Serbian poor to finance the descendants of former tycoons. We have the Darko Saric case here many years ago, back in Boris Tadic's day and as soon as he was arrested, it started to stretch his assets. There's a detachment for the management of the seized property, but it's been thoroughly robbed, all the houses, all the apartments, all the Buddhas, why they're selling furniture, it's been pulled up, I remember the TV footage as it's drawn, you can't convict him, because he didn't trade drugs in Serbia's territory, but there's no telling where he is, if he's at all. And who's going to pay him back this property? Will Boris Tadic? No, he'll get away with it. It will be returned by the state, which means the Serb poor will be returned to it again. When Saric was arrested, there were no changes in Serbia's drug market. So it had nothing to do with the drug trade in Serbia. When Rasim Ljajic became Deputy Prime Minister, the price of drugs on the market was increasing. Drugs are getting cheaper. When his brother was killed in the heroin lab, the police came to make an insight and the whole lab was untraceable. There's no paperwork on the seizure of the lab. It was 2004, it wasn't that long ago. (The People's Ambassador Muamer Bacevac throws out of place. I would've taken over if I'd been here, but I wasn't here. So, ever since he runs those jobs, the price of drugs is getting lower and lower, because he's sure, nobody can do anything to him. All of you from the government know it well, all the ministers, and pretend you don't know it. You need him for something. For what? Here you can see that he has shown his true face by choosing Esad Djuja as president of the Bosniak National Council, which means that you will be followed by an increased headache. There's a headache you'll be funding yourself. You have cases of Zorana Mihajlović, who first advertised the mistakes of building a section of the highway between Obrenovac and Mionica and there were some shortcomings and the company "Planum" removed all the shortcomings, and then it went and dug up the entire road, and it stood in front of the cameras and said – it had to start all over, and it didn't have to start again, in order to spend the new 10m euros and to get it to work for a company that didn't come on the basis of a public tender, but a direct contract. The same Zorana Mihajlovic makes a preliminary agreement with the Americans on the construction of the highway from Cačka to Pojat 300m euros more expensive than was a Chinese or Azerbaijani offer, 300m and will not be reconstructed. You have the Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar, who takes huge money on the basis of a commission to order expensive medical equipment. He almost everything in Nis, what was obtained, bought without a public tender with huge commissions and even deceived the public about the technical nature of some of these facilities. You have this Minister Sarčević, Mladen, I have not forgotten you, who buys Croatian equipment for an electronic diary three, four times more expensive than we can get from our producers, but it is not so bad. The scariest thing is, after more of our warnings, he didn't do anything to get the state's monopoly back on publishing textbooks for primary and secondary schools so that the textbook mafia wouldn't turn around about 100m euros a year. Publishers from Croatia, Germany and some other countries. We have this minister of sports. His one of his closest associates is already in prison for about a million and a few euros, perhaps two million. Some of the actors were still arrested alongside him for the phantom European University Game 2020 in Belgrade, which paid money and untraceablely disappeared, and the minister is still in office. So you have a whole series of ministers that you've had to kick out of the government, get rid of them, and then go to that election if you're preparing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49758	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49759	This way, with them to adopt the budget and go out with them, you'll have a hard time spending your time. Don't think that something from old glory can help you, because there's a lot of dirty laundry for some of your ministers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49760	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49761	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 27, 106 and 108. It is clear to me that this is the last mandate of the SRS and that the previous speaker wants to attract attention, but I do not understand that the chairman does not try at least business within 20 minutes, having the right to apply Article 108 or 109, given that the previous speaker absolutely did not say anything about the budget. But let's not talk about the budget, I have to point out that our country is in a very challenging situation today, perhaps a situation that hasn't been that way in the past 20 years. Our people in Kosovo and Metohija today have no drugs, our people in Kosovo and Metohija may in a few days be in such a situation that there is no food, no water, no heating, and in such a situation I imagined that people in the SRS might at least symbolically, perhaps in some other way, I was banned the other day, along with the National Assembly President, by Kosovo or Albanian separatists, to enter the territory of Kosovo and Metohija... (Vojislav Seselj: When I am forbidden! But it's not for you. (Vojislav Seselj: How is it not? You can help our people to cope with a situation like this together, and perhaps act as Chetnik units by HBS, according to Ross units, as you have said for the past 20 years...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49762	A colleague of Marinkovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49763	... And in that way, you'll endanger the Shyptarian separatists. I don't think this kind of behavior is for anyone, not just the previous speaker, not just Dr. Seselj. There's no one in this country. I think Milan Stojadinovic, Nikola Pasic, is turning into a grave because of this behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49764	My friend Marinkovic, you're bringing him in. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49765	I'll ask the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. In addition, please continue to hold a session so that we do not have a serious crisis here in parliament, because there will be an opportunity to be here... As the previous speaker obstructs Parliament's work, so do we now... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49766	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49767	No, I want to discuss it as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49768	Go on, colleague Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49769	Thank you. Since the SDPS is a party that looks into the future, I am speaking for the citizens of Serbia. I'm not going back in time. A party that a little bit of a word about, just a minute, is a party of the past. NJen leader Vojislav Seselj is a plus-squamperfect and, therefore, we have nothing to talk about. I'll go back to the budget. The budget is something we are discussing today, and we are discussing a budget that is very important and very important to us. We've achieved a good result in financial consolidation. Not a good result, I can say an extraordinary result. Why the extraordinary result? We've arranged the finances. Serbia has arranged finances. It's very important that the citizens of Serbia know. (National Ambassador Vojislav Seselj throws out of town. ) (The People's Ambassador Muamer Bačevac throws out of place. Please calm them down. (The Belief of Radeta: Man has no concentration. (Vojislav Seselj: You have no concentration? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49770	I ask my colleagues to allow colleagues to allow fellow Mijatovic to continue his discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49771	I've always had a concentration for you, and I'll have it forever. I've always beaten you, both in Sarajevo and here. I'm talking about the stability of the budget. The budget is planned so that there is stability on the income side and beyond, which means the funds are planned realistically, conservatively, and Serbia is no longer surprised. It cannot happen that Serbia is in a position to pop up some debt, to pop up something that was not envisaged, which means Serbia is becoming a well-organised country, facing the future. Furthermore, this budget is balanced, which means you know exactly where it's going to be spent, there can be no imbalance, there can be no budget deficit. We have experience with the budget deficit. Let me tell you, you know when there were 6.6% of GDP deficits, when it was hundreds of millions, and we have a surplus in the last three years, which is very important, which is very important. In this budget we planned, we have a situation to plan a deficit of 0.5%. In 2015, when I talked about the budget then I made it clear, if we achieve 0.5% then it will be a historic success, we have an estimated 0.5% of the budget deficit, which is for a country like Serbia, its economic strength, quite normal and which allows us to move on. However, I think it is easier to achieve success in financial consolidation than to preserve it. Why? Well, because when you have more resources, more resources to spend, then you're in a situation to grow appetites. Everyone's looking for bigger salaries, everybody's looking for bigger pensions, everybody wants new highways, everybody wants new railways, so those whose appetites are getting stronger. So this power that I don't doubt, and this position that we're in, that we're always going to get elections, because we're acting domestically, because we're spending what we've earned, that means we're not throwing ourselves away with government money, we're taking care of every dinar. That's what characterizes us and that's what the citizens of Serbia know and believe. This budget also has a significant social dimension. Why? Well, we make sure we raise the standard. Here is, for example, the fact that wages are increasing and these salaries will be increased from 7% to 12%. For this year's salary, we're going to give over 33 billion dinars, but remember that's the money that's earned this year and that's going to be earned next year. We don't borrow, we don't have a populist policy that's going to be in a position to give the people more money to get votes, no. We told the citizens of Serbia that we are going into financial consolidation, that we are going into a difficult period, but when the time comes, we will really return it, as you can see. So we're giving 33 billion more for wages and we're just taking care of the social elements of those categories that have been most difficult. Right away, it's very good that we give 12% higher salary to medical technicians, doctors 10%, enlighten 9%, military and police 9%, customs and tax administration 8.5%, 5%, etc. It's something that's very important. So, we promised when conditions were created that these salaries would be returned to the level that they were, not only returned to that level, but those salaries would also be increased in accordance with the economic power of the country. I also have to welcome a situation that is very important, which has also been discussed here today in our Parliament, which is the minimum cost of work. You know, that minimum labour price that's been significantly increased, it's been about 102 dinars since 2012. In 2019 it will be 155 dinars or more by 52%. This is a sign that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it takes care of those categories that are hard to live and are in a difficult situation. The SDPS is exactly the party that just stands for such elements that everyone has the same chance of living. I am particularly pleased on behalf of the SDPS that these agreements were made through social dialogue, which is what the present minister was involved in and we have reached this average profit, this minimum salary of 27,000 dinars. Let me tell you right now, we're not satisfied with that. The minimum wage should be equal to the minimum consumer basket. This minimum consumer basket is 26871 dinar, but this is the goal we are seeking. You can't do it all at once. We will agree to step by step and achieve. As when we started financial consolidation in 2014, none of us believed that we would come into this situation to have the funds, to have a budget deficit of 0.5%, so in 2018 we achieved it. I therefore trust and trust this government, our ruling position, that we will actually be able to reach this price in the coming period, the minimum labour price that will allow it to be equal to the minimum consumer basket. You will always have, Mr. Minister, the support of the SDPS to reach better and higher labour prices in agreement with the trade unions, because the higher labour price not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector, and thus enables citizens of Serbia to live better and better and to have a better standard of living. Speaking of wages, I want to say one more thing, I'm not thrilled that no pay grade was adopted. However, I consider the year 2019 to be a transitional year. In other words, the year which still allows us to fully establish the basics that we have achieved in the financial consolidation, but that is why I am really sending a clear message to the competent minister, I expect that payment classes will come to life in 2020 as of 1 January 2020 and that will be a significant reform move for us, which will allow for the introduction of order in public administration salaries. That's very good because we now have one range that's from 1 to 7. Someone says yes, it's a large range. It's not. We need quality personnel. Quality frames should be paid, this range can and should be significantly higher, greater than 1.7. By my judgment, and by the estimate of the Fiscal Council, it could be one on one by one. One more thing, I stand for social cards and social policy. In other words, we don't have social tickets yet. It's always said, yes, we'll make them. If we want to have an adequate social policy, then we need to know what condition everyone is in, every family, and not that it happens to us that someone is in a state of social need and has a significant property and he uses state instruments to make a better living. The minister also promised social cards, and I keep that promise, and I will always remind you when the social tickets will be ready. I'd like to talk a little bit about pensions. We welcome the decision to abolish the Retirement Act. That is indeed a very big result. Mr. Colaković and I advocated this at the end of 2017. He was suspended at the end of September and, please, the chairman, to calm down, I can't speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49772	I ask my colleagues to allow their colleagues to complete their presentation and to be a little quieter. Go on, colleague Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49773	I'm talking about pensions, I'm not talking about some of the things these people on the right are saying about protecting Serbia, and more about taking care of their pockets and their property. I'm talking about people who live on pensions, salaries, who don't have extra incomes, who work to survive and support their families. So I insist that the pensions that have really been increased, the pensioners have got it and felt it in their pockets, and because of that fact, I suggest that it be considered that 2019 will also be a transitional year, but that in 2020 we have a clearly indicated formula to coordinate pensions. I don't want to say what that formula will look like, let the pensioners and everyone else agree, but it can't be left to be arbitrary, but it should be done to make it a clear and explicit formula, so the pensioners can know what they expect in the next period. There are a million and 700 pensioners in this country. They have endured the greatest burden and deserve to be rewarded, to have what they have earned by their work, and that is their right. About a lot of things I can say, but I'm gonna go back to some other things now. I would like to see in this budget, something the finance minister said – achieving the objectives of sustainable development and achieving the 2030 Agenda. A very important Agenda, I was talking about when there were environmental laws and they needed significant money and a lot of resources to invest. I am talking about the objectives of sustainable development, and I will refer to environmental protection. The minister said that significant funds will be allocated to water purifiers, to healthy air, to water, and that is what we otherwise expect when we enter the European Union. We've submitted the amendments. The Focus Group, which follows the objectives of sustainable development, has submitted amendments and we expect that they will be discussed in detail, and that will be said in an individual debate. I'm not just saying this to make it a manifestation, but because the goals of sustainable development also mean growth in the economy, the green economy. If we are cleaning waste, these are significant resources, if we are making renewable energy, it is also a significant growth in social product, and Serbia must and should have a significant GDP growth. The high score is 4.5%, which we have in the first 10 months, by the end of the year 4.2%. I don't want to mention when it was minus 3.1%, that's what we were talking about. Serbia has one stability, it goes forward and will move forward. But apart from stability, we need to know where and how we want to go, not to go back to the past, that some of us don't go back to some roads, dark roads, what they're always ready to do, because only in those dark ways, dark fairies, can survive and exist. Now, that's not gonna happen anymore. The better part of their party split up and he's going forward and he's not going to stop them or us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49774	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Seselj, on the line. (Vojislav Seselj: He said I was a plus-squamperfect. He didn't mention you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49775	Dear Vice-President, distinguished members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the most important law that we can discuss in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget and the vote on the Republic of Serbia's budget are the equivalent of the debate on the government and its results. When we look at this budget, we can see some things that are good and that should be commended and some things that tell us that there are reasons why we should be concerned in some segments. Precisely, I'd say, smudged in some things. But let's start with the good stuff, because when you talk about anything, it's time to say what's wrong first, not what's wrong. The budget is stable, the budget is projected based on realistic assumptions, based on a realistic view of what GDP growth will be, in co-operation with the most important international organisations that are, in a way, our key advisers and guarantees of our credibility. We still need credibility on the outside. The good things we can notice on the macroeconomic plan is that there is a decline in the debt of the Republic of Serbia as a percentage of GDP, and in general, that we have low inflation, a stable exchange rate, or any assumption that we are saying that we are living in a country that has achieved stability. It needs to be extremely malicious and to deny such achievement. Stability is a prerequisite for us to think about other things, and these other things are called structural reforms. This is one of the reasons why we have one grain of salt after a rather solid commendation, when it comes to the stability and balance of the budget. The high growth we have in this year is due to one significant part of the relatively low base of last year, which was bad, due to the decline in agricultural production and due to poor energy results. Logically, when that one-time disorder stopped happening, it doesn't happen every year, we've had a relatively high growth rate this year and it won't be below 4%. And here I am fully in agreement with the estimates made by the minister who, unfortunately, is not there right now, but I am sure other ministers know the budget equally well. Unfortunately, me, and my MP group, we have one dose of skepticism that in the coming year of construction and agriculture can record such good growth rates that have occurred, or will happen this year. We will not have 4% growth next year, but most likely these 3.5% that are projected. This is the reason to imagine a good year, how to make every year bring growth of 4 or 5%, because Serbia is a country where not all production resources are activated. We're a country that can grow 5% over many years if all the things that are necessary to stimulate growth are done. What has concerned us is that in this budget we are going to have a growth of three and a few percent in the following year, we have largely shed into expenditures, or budget expenditures, and only a small part of it has gone into the redundancies of the economy. So it's very good that a discharge has been made regarding unemployment insurance, which has been lifted by some parafiscals. But in order for Serbia to be a country that grows by 5% each year, it is necessary to do much more. The good years when the growth rate is 4 or 5% open up space for us to do such things, or to reduce the burden on the lowest wages, reduce other tax burdens, parafiscals. Literally every year when we have a growth of 4 or 5%, we can reduce the total tax burden of the economy by at least 2% and in such a way in a period of, say, four, five or six years to make Serbia very good for domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus also for foreign businesses. Such an economy that would be in the country, with a country that is efficient and much less spent, is an excellent call for investors, but even more so for small and medium-sized enterprises from Serbia to invest. At this point, the basic problem in growth in Serbia is low investment and especially low investment of domestic SMEs. There's a story about why we're growing by 3.5% this year next, not 4 or 5%, and that's one of the key issues. I'm sorry we didn't give this budget a bigger boost to growth, and I agree with the Fiscal Council here. I'm very glad that a partial incentive has been given through some reduction of parafiscals and impositions on work, but for now it's still not enough. Also, what is also important to point out, the biggest drug for redistribution problems everyone likes to talk about in the congregation is growth, because it's easy to catch from the big river, it's very hard to catch from a small one that's half empty. With high growth rates and growth incentives, we would probably be able to do much better and build infrastructure and pay better teachers and doctors and do all the things that are important for Serbia to be a country in which it lives, from which people do not move. What we believe in the centre movement parliamentary group is that it is necessary that in future adoptions of the budget at least 50% of the additional revenues, resulting from GDP growth, are not spent, care is used to reduce tax burdens. Only in this way can Serbia's economy grow steadily at high growth rates. Besides, we're doomed to something called stagnation. How important that is, let's say, we can look at it if we imagine that we have two countries, say, green and blue soil, this is right, and they're the same. After eight years of being two government mandates. One country grew by 5%, the other one grew by 3%. The one who grew up by 5% was brave and did something good. The one that grew by 3% was conservative and didn't have enough ambition, and let's see what's going to be the result. A country that grew by 5% will have this much GDP, a country that grew by 3% after eight years will significantly lag behind. Here are the problems that are solved in education, health care, the military and everything that matters. The key issue in each budget is the issue of growth. We have solved the issue of stability and what Serbia needs is for us to have brave GDP growth policies, a policy that will not be met by being better than we were six years ago. It's a little ambition. No bankrupt banks now, or 20 years ago, no bankrupt banks, that's not happening. There's no hidden deficit, that's not happening. There aren't many other things. There is no government to make at a time of crisis and the government to increase costs without reducing expenditures and thus entering into a crisis and making it crazy. It's gone. The question is whether it will be a pleasure to have achieved something or something much more, and that is the key question that stands. Why I also think it's extremely important to consider reducing the workload to the lowest wages. That's what we were talking about today, too bad it wasn't talked about anymore. Immigration is the reality of the Balkans. It happens in Croatia, it happens in Bosnia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, it happens everywhere. What's going to be our reality in two to three years is that in many branches we won't have enough workers. We don't have a worker in some branches now. When you don't have enough labour market laws say pay increases, which isn't bad for those who stay. However, this growth, if it is not organic, will not be the growth of wages followed by productivity growth and in most cases will put pressure on business to close or go to the gray sector. If we don't have a reduction policy, I'm afraid that expression will break into our heads, not now, not in a year, but in 2-3 years, we'll have this problem, and we can't cut the charges by cutting one year. That's not how it's done. The deficit hasn't been cut in a year. It's a question of all the issues in front of Serbia. It's also the government's policy of subsidisation policy, so if there's no cheap labour force, which we're going to subsidize. As much as I'm against that subsidy policy, there won't be cheap labour to find her. Therefore, the issue of growth is a fundamental issue and a question of reducing tax burdens. To understand, if you have a small growing country, it's this big at first, it's a bit sad as Serbia, the state spends our roughly this size, it's a little less than half, and when you're big and when you're growing up, our half, or 45% less than a third, when the country is growing, and that's the basic question, it's very simple, but that's why we need to have courage, and it's our call for whoever's leading Serbia to be the key issue -- how we're going to have growth, not how we're going to spend new tax revenues. Our MP group will also say something about other laws, and many of these laws are good and answer partly to the question of growth and other issues, and so much of me. Thank you for listening and thank you if there are any comments. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49776	Replica? What replica? (Vojislav Seselj: Replica Mijatovic) Ambassador Mijatovic? (Vojislav Seselj: He mentioned my name and said I was a plus-squamperfect. ) Just to see, will any of the ministers answer? Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49777	Maybe we're the political past. However, we are a party, we Serbian radicals, who always consistently go to the polls on their own, so when the people think we deserve part of the trust, the people show us that trust. When the people think we are not needed in the congregation, then we lose trust. As it will be in the next election, it will only be seen. Since you formed your party, this social democratic one, as it's called, you've never made your own election. You've always been involved with another party. You're like ivy, like you had, you're a sad game. You bow down to someone, and they give you a few terms and pretend you're politicians. Why don't you go to the election yourself sometime? Here, among the Bosniaks in Sandzak, that natural censorship won Mufti Zukorlic, won Sulejman Ugljanin. You're in no condition to do that. That's what the elections for the Bosniak National Council showed. You are there a tab on the scale, but a tab that holds Rasim Ljajic in order to politically keep Sulejman Ugljanin alive, because you are connected by common interests. Furthermore, why did I talk about this specifically in the budget debate? Because Rasim Ljajic controls budgets that go to national councils, national minorities' councils. His when he is director of the Office for Human and Minority Rights, Suzana Paunovic, was before him Dusan Ignjatovic. It is the same Ignatovic who was in this Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Rasim Ljajic controls the money that goes there. That's why it's even more dangerous... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49778	Thank you. We have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The word is Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49779	Dear President, it's hard to answer someone who never tells the truth, keeps telling the truth, and you have to explain that's not true. A hundred times repeated lie is a lie again, it will never be true. Let's get this straight. In 2012, we were invited by Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, and we were offered to enter the government. We were not offering to anyone, we were already invited and we entered the government. We were not offering to anyone, we were already invited and we entered the government. In 2014, we were also invited by Alexander Vukic, to remind you, the first of the indirect partners and we are clearly told that we trust you, you are doing well and that is why we want to continue working with you. All that our coalition agreement contained, Alexander Vukic fulfilled to the final point. It happened in 2016, to remind you, we were the first of the coalition partners invited, we were told to go with you, you did well and we continue the work and reforms we started. Be assured, and that time Alexander Vukic fulfilled everything he gave us. Therefore, knowing our personnel, knowing our capacities and our capabilities, we have entered power only as someone who really deserves it with his work and support from his voters. That means, with that support, we've entered power. We will continue to work, as we are now part of the coalition, and we will continue to work. If we're invited, we'll still be in the same coalition, because we really have results and a lot of trust in our coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49780	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Now try the key again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49781	The Honorable Chairman, this violence we are suffering here is terrible. Article 27 has been injured. This is where dead people are mentioned, they bring up lies, untrues from a political jackal in the Republic of Serbia, a war criminal, this man here, Seselj, extremely full of lies at the expense of honest people, and that's something that cannot be allowed. The president here has been allowing this man, in the worst way, to address the other MPs, throws away, halts work and humiliates the Serbian parliament and everything that is Serbian. Well said my colleague, while the Serbs struggle for their survival, he fights for his pocket and we give him no money, those he seeks as a racket to stop. He won't get it, but I promise him I'll get him back to The Hague, which he needs to go back to because he's a war criminal and because the laws of this country are being violated. The Social Democratic Party and its president will fight for the laws of this country to be respected. The laws of the Republic of Serbia by which this war criminal cannot sit here. Remember well that the people of Sandzak, both Serbs and Bosniaks, will rebel, wait outside this assembly. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica, Mijatovic answers. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49782	I'll give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49783	I don't want Bacec, I don't have anything to say, everything's right, and if I was jacking and everything else, everything's right. (Muamer Bacevic: The pitcher is always right.) You're not always, but now you're complete. I won't answer. Keep up the good work. As far as Mijatovic is concerned, he says that Vukic has granted them all their wishes. I don't doubt it. Only Vukic Aleksandar, president of the republic and interior minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said the other day they have no idea that Rasim Ljajic is the head of the drug mob. They had no idea. Why? Because the police director didn't report them neatly, right, Djordjevic? And you were a military minister. So they didn't know about it, but now they know. And now they know that Rasim Ljajic supports Sulejman Ugljanin, that he is with him in the coalition and that he supported Esada Juda as president of the Bosniak National Council. Now all the masks are off. I've been talking to the government the whole time, and I'm not talking to them, they're insignificant to me. They must never go out on their own, they were with Tadic in 2012 in the coalition, the Sadak Party, received from him the number of mandates, and then beat Tadic, and Danube and moved to the ruling majority. After Sadak, a party of the Progressive Party, put them there on the list, gave them a number of mandates. Next time they go out alone, they'll see double zeroes, zeros squared.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49784	Time. Thank you. I have three reported, Milorad Mijatovic first, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49785	Of course, I no longer see the purpose of this controversy created here. I know this party on my right wants it, it's exactly the kind of situation that's best handled in chaos, chaos, mess, but this is one other Serbia that they're not used to. They're not used to this being an orderly country where laws are respected, where people know what they do and where they move forward. We're talking budget here. I want to keep talking about the budget, not the past. The past is behind us and we really won't talk about it. I'm not even going to answer those simple expressions that are spoken here. I can tell you that this party that supported one participant in the Sandzak elections has lost, so what you're angry about, you've lost, you've supported Mufti Zukorlic, you've lost, what I can do for you. I can tell you something else. You're a hired party. If you want some jobs done, you get paid, the only thing you're wrong about here is that you didn't do the job. Now get out of here. Well, you know, it's not the mother of the son of a bitch that gambled, it's because he's out, and now you're out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49786	I'm setting up a five-minute break for article 112 to discuss the budget further. No more replicas, I think we've talked a lot about this subject. [[After a break.]] We can keep going. The word has an MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49788	I thank the president. This is what the New Year's gift you have prepared for the citizens of Serbia and each of these over 3,500 pages here, this gift that you have prepared for the citizens of Serbia, will edit their lives and edit them in the next 2019, and we will discuss in a united debate with 62 points of the agenda, 40 laws of which all three are not by emergency procedure, 1,761 members in total. As I heard earlier, some say that in 2010, someone had more points in the session, yes, he just forgot to say that all the points were never united with the budget at one point in the agenda, but in 14 different discussions and the session lasted three months, unlike yours that lasted a week or two days. With one single goal, it is to conceal the truth from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is a humiliation to them, not a humiliation to us who are opposition MPs in the Assembly, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose representatives you are here and need to represent their interest. Also, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that Sinisha Mali, Minister of Finance, has left parliament. I don't know what more important business he has today, but when the debate is in the principle of the Budget Law and a set of laws in the area of finance and economy, he's gone to some other business probably won't be there to discuss it with us and to answer the questions we're going to ask on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So it might be better if you interrupt the session so we can continue tomorrow, if he has the decency to return here to this House. As far as the state is concerned, the priorities of a country are the first thing in serious societies to diagnose the current situation, in order to make a strategy of what should be done in a society. Of course, it was never your authority. For seven years you have ruled Serbia and today you do not know what the problems in Serbia are. You have not defined key problems in this budget either, you are not dealing with the problem of demographics, or education as two key problems in this society, without talking about reforming the political and economic system. Of course, what's the feature of your rule is that you've destroyed the system of institutions, that you've destroyed the rule of law and law because it doesn't suit you, it's only the power of politicians, those who are in power, not the respect of the law, and not the functioning of serious and independent institutions. Therefore, one of the key things that stems from this budget is that it will continue corruption in large proportions in the Republic of Serbia, that the bureaucracy, which you promised to resolve, will continue, will continue to burden the citizens of Serbia. As for corruption, you came to power with a story about fighting corruption, today unfortunately, the finance minister will not answer me what he has done so far and what he will do to get Serbia off the FATFA blacklist, the only country in Europe suspected of money laundering and terrorist financing, that is his portfolio. Not to mention what GRECO said about the growth of corruption in Serbia, because none of the recommendations have been applied since 2015. Of course, in this budget, you will continue to boast public enterprises and all this on the burden of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because seven years of wrong economic policies have produced disastrous results for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because your policy is all seven years old and will continue in 2019 to take money and money from the citizens of Serbia, to put you in the central register, and then to spend that money meaninglessly, on various projects that aim at or your wealth through corrupt projects, or a political campaign to buy votes and your survival in power. This is also the budget you have proposed, the pre-election budget, and it is far from what Sinisa Mali said, a dominant developmental character because there is no development here except for political development where you will be courting citizens in certain items in this budget. Your erroneous economic policy that you have been leading for seven years has led to the fact that Serbs today, gentlemen, are one of the poorest people in Europe. If you did not know, the Serbs are twice as poor as the Croats, three times the Hungarians and Croats, and even five times the Slovenians and the Czechs. This is because today in Serbia our employees receive almost the lowest earnings in Europe. I'll tell you that this promotion of your pre-election that you've predicted is so little that Serbian workers won't feel any better than those who work in the surrounding countries. Today, wages in Slovenia are 1,082 euros, in Croatia 843 euros, in Hungary 703, in Romania 535, Montenegro 512, BiH 448, in Serbia, as said by the Statistics Institute 405 euros a day ago, only Macedonia with 393 is below us. So much for your economic successes. Furthermore, says President Aleksandar Vucic, on your party's copy of Pink TV the other day, referring to the CIA Agency's allegations, you can imagine that Aleksandar Vukic is calling for a CIA report and says in his latest report in the countries of the world that the main factors for favourable economic growth and economic reform Serbia is its strategic location, a cheap and qualified workforce and an agreement on external trade with the EU. But forget to continue what the CIA report calls on, which is that Serbia's unemployment with 16% far above the EU average, lacks implementation of structural reforms and is extremely slow, the share of public debt in GDP in 2017 was 71%, and not according to the finance ministry's data 61.5%, that structural reforms of public enterprises are lagging behind, strategic public sector reform and, of course, the biggest challenge is that the inefficient judicial system is an extremely high level of corruption and population that is rapidly getting older. That's what President Aleksandar Vukic said when he called on that report. For all of this, in six years, our reign of 600,000 people has gone away. They went to serious countries, organized countries where they live better, where there is the rule of law and the law of human freedom, where people can be properly paid for by their work. When you talk about GDP growth, and I am particularly sorry that there is no Mr. Cynthia's Little Minister of Finance here, I will tell you that we are also GDP at the beginning of both Europe and the region and the GDP of the Republic of Serbia is, according to this CIA report, which is being called by Aleksandar Vukic here somewhere on the level with the Ivory Coast, Congo, Turkmenistan, far behind Croatia, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. That's also very important data. Sinisa Mali speaks of some growth in GDP this year, which will be 4%, as he says hopes and beyond, just forget to say that other countries with which it compares from the region had, unlike us, a much higher GDP last year and that your growth that you boast this year is based on the fact that we had the smallest growth in Europe last year 1.8%. You forget to tell the citizens of Serbia. Well, then you say one very interesting thing, since there is no growth in GDP and since we are still at the beginning of a public debt reduction. I'll ask you – how? The cumulative growth of GDP or production in the Republic of Serbia from 2012 to 2017 is 5.25% during your rule. For the same period of growth, global GDP growth is 23%, four times the average. When you talk about growth before 2012, you often know how to say and say 2009 and say it was negative minus 3.12%, and what you don't mention in 2008 when it's 5.37%, 2007. A year 5.89%. When you talk about being leaders, and Vukic said we'd have the biggest growth in Europe, we'd have a growth bigger than Germany. Why don't you say that in 2002 we were the first in Europe to grow GDP with 7%. That in 2004, with 9.05% growth, we had a second place in Europe and that from 2001 to 2012, 46% of Serbia's GDP increased cumulatively. For you, it's a mental noun because you're running a completely wrong economic policy. What results from the wrong policy is public debt. You have tasked Serbian citizens from 2012 to today for a total of nine billion euros. When you came to power in 2012, the public debt was 15 billion euros, it today is 24.3 billion euros. And then you say in June, public debt is 24.4 billion euros, is 60.5% of GDP. You have tasked Serbian citizens with the new 800m euros, and then you say in September 24.3 the same amount is almost as absolute as the citizens of Serbia, 56.7% of GDP. So, you continue to change the methodology and falsify statistical data and false changes in GDP estimates for this year reduce statistical percentages of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, or its citizens, because Serbian citizens are increasingly in debt under your authority and your regime. So despite these nine billion that we owe more than in 2012, a total of 24 billion, you planned new debts in the 2019 budget. When we talk about pensions, you promised the pensioners that they'd have a new check that they'd get this year after normal retirement cuts, that they'd all have bigger pensions from 8.8 to 13.2 bigger pensions. Those who were luckier received the same pension as in 2014 before the reduction. Those who had less luck got a thousand or two less. You mock the pensioners of Serbia. You demean them and laugh at them in the face and tell them about any increase, and at best you give them the same pension, and perhaps less. Sinisha Mali said it would be the historic biggest pension. Brutally, he lied to the pensioners of the Republic of Serbia that he had not said in one word that he would return 800m euros that he took from them for the four years. Stole, 800m euros from pensioners who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And even if pensions had increased by 8.6 they wouldn't have felt it because in the same period, 8.6% have increased consumer prices in the Republic of Serbia. So, it continues in this budget to rob citizens of the Republic of Serbia through various purchases, through taxes, through excise duties, and in the last three years, only on fuel taxes using a decline in oil prices on the world market, you took about 220m euros from citizens of Serbia, because you did not reduce the excise duty when oil prices started to drop on the world market, but you raised, or when it started to rise the price of oil on the world market, but you raised excises when oil on the world market fell. When you talk about agriculture in the budget, you talk about how I don't know it increases the budget by 17.4%, 7.6 billion is more. Yeah, that's great, that's better than not getting any raises. It's better than having cuts, but it's dear friends away from what the Serbian agrarian and the Serbian peasant need. With this 7.6 billion increase, you'll just give them back what you owe them. This is not an increase in the budget for them, it is to be disbursed, because you owe them for the promotion and subsidies of 2018, those you have not yet paid and you will not pay by the end of the year. I'll remind you, in 2012, when you came to power what you promised the Serbian peasant. The agrarian budget will increase significantly and its height should be at least 5% in 2012, with a minimum increase of 1% each year. Do you know, Minister, how much he is today? Under five again. The law on fostering agriculture has defined a minimum of 5% as the amount of the agricultural budget. You're under five again. In 2012, you promised to increase by 1% each year, and you downloaded below 5%. But that's why you have your farmers, you have "Tenis", for which you prepare subsidies, you give him land of our couples, you have various Arabs that take tens of thousands of land in Serbia, which you have donated to the PKB for 105 million, and you have invested parallelly in the purchase of Kopernikus cable network with 200m euros. So it's worth more to the cable operator you pay than to the PKB that you sold for 105m euros, with 17,000 hectares, 17,000 head of cattle. Of course, what it says is that this is the pre-election budget is also the level of capital investment, only 100 million more for infrastructure projects. So there's no story of GDP growth or next year, because you've defined 46 billion for the military and the police, for their equipment, a fifth of total investment, and that's not questionable, if necessary. But explain to the citizens of Serbia what these military money will be spent on, as every day in your tabloids they hear about wars, tanks, rockets, who knows what. Tell people what they're going to invest in, what equipment these 46 billion will invest in. Of course, they will suffer from that health, education, and ecology. Speaking of infrastructure, I especially must mention the Moravia Corridor, since I live in that part of Serbia. In this budget, you envisioned 800m euros for the start of the construction of the Moravia Corridor, an highway that is 110km long and runs through the valley of Morava. The same time in 2013, when it was to be built, 500m euros was an estimate of the CIP, and the Chinese investment fund's offer of 530m was rejected because it exceeded the estimated value of the purchase. What happened in the meantime, so the price went up by 300 million? Same length, same track, except around some others do business that is better understood by percentages. Please answer me – what has added 300m euros to the Moravia Corridor, which is the same route, which is the same length, is just a bigger pair to be given, this time to the American performer and investor "Bechtel"? Of course, we will propose an amendment that some of the funds from President Nikolic's office for co-operation with China and Russia be transferred to the Ministry of Construction Fund, so that they can tear down an illegal facility in Kopalnik, which you obviously do not have enough money to bring down or may be linked to these leaders who hold peace, stability and defend the country's country in Kosovo, according to Vukic the other day, calling on Milan Radojicic as the largest Serb protector in Kosovo. Of course, what the budget situation looks like is the best figure. It continues with a devastating policy of subsidising public enterprises, so you gave the Railways a new 14.6 billion in this budget as well as last year. The services contracted by the Prime Minister's Office increased by 17.6%, the government's airline by 72%, to 500 million, probably, those who drive you from Pinka should be paid, the media 5.3%, 43 million is the media budget. But that's why you cut the Office of Drugs by 22% of the budget, by four million, and then social protection by 15%, that's your portfolio, ministers, 21 billion, so you cut the Anti-Corruption Agency by 30.6%, by 111 million, and you cut the Public Procurement Administration 43%, or 108 million, to the Ministry of Economy by 10%, or four billion, and, what's good, you also reduced the Office of Co-operation with Russia and China by 17.6%, or eight million, but you left 41 million to Tomislav Nikolic that, in addition to a warm stay in the Presidential villa in Užička, he may have some money for the allowance. Now, that's bad news for Serbian citizens and that's a policy of continuity that will make them more and more poor, and you in power are getting richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49789	Time. Here you go, Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49790	Mr. Alexic asked for some answers. Here, I'll try to answer him. These are the words of Edith Tahiri: "Kosovo is an independent internationally recognised state, confirmed by the International Court of Justice". This is the result of your policy. This is due to the policy of Vuk Jeremic, who asked the question thanks to whom Serbs living today in Kosovo and Metohija have huge life problems. You, Mr. Aleksic, are campaigning today, you who are constantly talking about freedom of the media, you who are talking about dictatorship, you who say there is censorship in Serbia by Alexander Vukic and SNS, today you issued a statement where you run the haranga against, it says in your statement, and I will quote: "Pinka", "Study B", daily newspaper "Telegraf", "Informer", "Alo! “, “Kurir”, “Evening News” and “Policy”, as well as a web-portal republic.rs and Serbiananas.com, only because they published information that Vuk Jeremic is a witness in a process conducted before the District Court in New York, involving an international corruption gang whose component is Vuk Jeremic. The procedure is being conducted against his friend and business partner Patrick Ho, who has provided him with an enormous profit. Only in one firm, CFC, Vuk Jeremic, received 660,000 euros in testimony from Patrick Hoe himself, and this was read in the process before the New York District Court. Until today's citizens of Serbia have not received information on which basis and which is why the Qatar Embassy in Berlin has paid Vuk Jeremic an amount of 200,000 euros, to date Serbian citizens have not received information from Vuk Jeremic at the expense of more than sevenm euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49791	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49792	So these are the consequences of the devastating policy of Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Dusan Petrovic and all those representing today's so-called "Students". The Alliance for Serbia, and I will continue, Mrs Gojkovic, to express how and how they ruined the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49793	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49794	Thank you, Madam President. Member of 107th and question of the dignity of the National Assembly and of the once again notorious lies we have heard from the mouth of MP Alexic, but also because of a totally unacceptable relationship with the representatives of the government. He found a man who literally called here by the name of the minister and asked where he went and why he wasn't here. That's absolutely unacceptable, because all of us as MPs are getting nice and neat who are representatives of the government. He could read it and he knows it, but he wouldn't appreciate it. But it is totally unacceptable for him to treat people who are his political opponents in this way, and he does not find it appropriate to look around. Where are the MPs of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica and similar to them? Where are they? Just look at that boxing where he's sitting. Where is anyone behind Alexic? There are three, four, let's appreciate it, but where are they in this session and in any of them? We know of course, and no one would blame it if they had some political stands like this that are now going to be at six o'clock. But what's the problem here? Not to go wherever they want, a wide field, but to repeat the disgusting lies and the disgusting accusations against Alexander Vukic and the SNS, that they are guilty of something that happened to Bork Stefanovic, the subject of the tribune, and they will not find it appropriate, will not find it necessary that the elemental fair thing is said that Stefanovic was rescued by a police officer, a representative of the state, whom you speak of all the worst, which you are lagging at all mouths. You won't find it appropriate to repeat it there, to tell people, that within 90 minutes each of the three people who participated in it has been identified, and that this evil state, which you don't love, which you hate and hate, because Alexander Vukic you hate, has solved it in 90 minutes. Well, be fair, say there, that you defended 15 days at the time that Ranko Panic was killed, and he was killed under a boot commanded by both Gilas, and Jeremic and Obradovic and others, that at that time 15 you defended to know the fate of man. Now that someone's attacked her, and it doesn't matter who she belongs to, in 90 minutes, what was unpleasant, unacceptable, I'm finishing the last sentence. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49795	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49796	I'm glad you didn't have anything to say to my discussion except cheap politics and assaulting the opposition, because I'm everything I've told the truth and you have nothing to deny it. As far as Kosovo is concerned, no one but you has created a government with Ramush Haradinaj and forced Serbs to go to the elections, nor signed an agreement on the establishment of administrative crossings, nor given judicial and executive authority in Kosovo, you have done all of this, to remind you of the Brussels Agreement, and some other documents. Now you're whining when they slap you from below, so you say we can put up with them, we're nice, we're gonna complain to Europe, America, to solve problems. No, that's how only citizens in Kosovo suffer. That's the result of your completely wrong policy. As for the campaign against the media, we do not run any campaign against the media, but the media leads against the opposition, the Alliance for Serbia, the People's Party, and Mr Vuk Jeremic. We asked these media to announce that he's the one who's the head of the international criminal gang, that he's involved in international corruption. It's a lie that's false, and it's a way of your political struggle against the inexperience, by lying to them, by demeaning them, by spreading hate, by spreading aggression, by creating an atmosphere of lynch. And, when what happened to Borko Stefanovic happens, you later refer to other cases. That's not true. You're you. Alexander Vukic is the reason someone broke Borko Stefanovic's head.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49797	Your time has passed. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49798	In your time, Mr. Aleksic, that is, at the time of Vuk Jeremic, you probably did not represent anything on the political scene of Serbia, were killed near Ranko Panic in 2008, Momir Gavrilovic was killed, Nenad Batcanin was killed, people who testified about the crime of those who came to power in 2000. As for the trial before the District Court in New York, well, your Vuk Jeremic said, that's his words, that's what he said in front of the court, that he himself, I quote what a man says – I, he says, brought Patrick Hoa, and former head of diplomacy Senegal Tidian Gadi. So he connected these two people, and out of that he derived huge property benefits. And Patrick Ho himself said in court that he hired your party president Vuk Jeremic into a company where he received 660,000 euros in two years. As for GDP growth, at the time of your government, GDP growth was recorded only in those years when a robbery privatisation was conducted in Serbia, which was not conducted in any European country. Only then could you fill the budget, not from real revenue, not from production, but from selling state-owned enterprises, will you? Only then was GDP growth recorded. I am now asking you to tell the citizens of Serbia, sold by Aleksandar Vukic, who sold it to the company SNS, so today we have a 4.5% GDP growth? At the time of your government, a negative rate of 3.1% of GDP has been recorded, and you have succeeded in four years of government since 2008. - In 2012 to fire over 400,000 Serbian citizens from their jobs. During that time, your coalition leader Dragan Gilas, president of the fabricated National Office of the President of the Republic, increased his assets by 300m euros from 2007 to 2012. These are the results of your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49799	Thank you. Time. Nejko Jovanovic, you asked for a word, on what basis? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49800	I thank you, President. I think it's high time that the citizens recognized that the mantra was literally all black until 2000, without any white, and since 2000, everything has been pink, a corny story that no one can believe anymore. October 5th is an October of major promises, followed by years of huge disappointments, disappointments in everything that has been illustrated by Serbian citizens, disappointments in everything reportedly being offered, that it will be better. Nothing was better. Then he would ask the gentlemen to answer the question I asked today. What about 128 billion euros, which entered Serbia in 2001 through privatisation? What about the fact that $13,000 was supposed to come after a Serbian resident from a sale to a privatisation firm? What about those who bought budgets such as Sartid, Jugormedia, ATP Vojvodina, Azotara, Srbolek, and what about sugars sold for three euros each? Where is this money, and how did it come to be after 2001, when exactly these gentlemen who today honor us all and all things, and nothing was done and founded, were doing anything or income? How did it come to be that the buyers, the ones who tricked the small shareholders by taking down stock prices, come to the capital that they suck, and then transfer that capital to private firms? How is it to explain to Serbian citizens that there have been as many privatisations as there have been and there have been 2400, 640 broken? What about what's promised to reorganize, new employment, empowerment of private societies? On the contrary, it was stolen, stolen, it was criminalized, and we came to what we had come to, so that today we might save what could be saved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49801	I suggest we go back to the budget debate. The word is Mira Petrovic. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. Why didn't any of the ministers answer me? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49802	President-in-Office, Mrs Gojkovic, dear ministers, dear colleagues, I will, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, bring some optimism and return the debate to my currents and calm down my passions and talk about the budget. As far as the budget is concerned, I think what the budget is, I think the position has been given by the Fiscal Council. If for years we have respected the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which was mostly negative, or bad for the budget that was planned, I do not see why we would now doubt whether their position is correct or not. I'll look back on just a few things that I think are important to us as a parliamentary group. That, whether the funds in the budget are well distributed is always disputable, one thinks that they've got more right, those who got less, think they're not, and we from the PUPS parliamentary group think it's not good, that the minister in charge of regional development, our president, Minister Krkobic really did a great thing with the idea of cooperatives, and that just this year, more funding was to be planned for the development of co-operation in Serbia. On the other hand, we have to go back and say, yes, in this previous period, two years as Minister Krkobbiæ dealt with cooperatives, a really great thing has been done, that on the necessity of the establishment of cooperatives and association of small agricultural producers everyone agreed, that we have received support and the most important institutions of SANU and the biggest experts in the country when it comes to villages and all the jobs that people in the country are dealing with, and we know that we have 600,000 villages and that 1,400,000 people live from it. On the other hand, we must express our satisfaction that this idea of cooperative life has awakened all of us, and it was this little dizziness that was necessary for all of us to come to our senses and remember, after all, that we all came from there, mainly, and that is what is causing us now, on the other hand, and optimism by looking at the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has received 7.6 billion more, expecting the Minister of Agriculture to simply continue to invest even more funds and that these villages really live in the way that they started. Of course, regional development, none of us are naive and nobody thinks it's a cooperative, regional development is everything else, and culture, and education. We do. All spheres are necessary here, but, behold, what was our contribution is cooperative. Simply, awakening awareness that the village is necessary and that it is necessary to support and help these people to live and become slave producers. I had to mention that part, but, of course, I'm going to deal with the pensioners, because, after all, 13 years ago, we were founded. I must admit that we are pleased that we have finally come to a higher pension budget this year, that pensions are restored, or increased, that we have survived the crisis times behind us. I'll remind you that we've always been attacked, and when we've established ourselves and when the pensions were the same 40%, and then, about, what they're looking for here now, then we're attacked for this year 2008, which nobody's mentioned now, except in the context of when the PUPS attacks and the crisis that was then created, and we deeply believe that we did the right thing, and then we protected, because that's why we were founded, the 1,700,000 pensioners of the current. On the other hand, we were attacked again in 2014, when we supported the heavy measure for all of us, I must admit, at that time and for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, a very difficult political decision to cut pensions to so many people, that, although it is 1,050,000, it seems to me that it remains protected, to question whether it will be possible to get out at all, whether the state will be able to get out of the bankruptcy that it has threatened and whether it might affect them too. I listen here to my colleagues when they talk about pensions and, of course, everyone now deals with pensioners, everyone deals with the protection of pensioners, but I will remind one thing -- those measures were necessary. Whether we agree or disagree, or whether we want to admit it or not, that's one thing, but the fact is that you can have the best BMW, but if you don't have the fuel, you can just sit in the BMW, no driving. So this, if there's no money in the budget, you can't have good pensions, you can't have... So we simply have to be aware of the situation in which our country is. What I would like to say a little bit more about right now is that this is now the first step and we in 2019 simply have a small period where we can all sit down together and see what our solution is. This certainly isn't a permanent solution. That's what we all agree on. The head of the IMF office, Sebastian Sosa, also held his opinion. We will also have pension harmonisation twice a year in 2019, this provision is not abolished, in April and October, but, of course, everything in line with the economic situation, that is, the economy, so that it will not affect GDP, but what is important is that we are finally smart and try to somehow focus all of our political differences on something that is the future of all of us. We have to accept the fact that, say research, in 25 years, 40% of the occupation will not exist. There won't be a postman until 2025. I am the head of a "Post" Serbia. Amazon is now working on the development of drones that will deliver mail, so there won't be any physical mailmen. The post office of America was bankrupt and if President Trump hadn't personally interfered, they would have been closed already. So, something that's waiting for us is one rational approach to this problem. We need to get into the pension fund reform. We're all aware of that. What kind of formula is it going to be, is it going to be this, what would you say, the Swiss model or not, but we have to come up with a common position together, come up with a common solution that these pensions are what people who have done, deserve and who work and who come up with these pensions, we have to provide them in some way. We have as a parliamentary group and as a party, as a PUPS we have our proposals. If they're good, that's the question, but come on, we're sitting at the table, we got it now. We breathed air, we could sit our heads still and find a solution to the future. Robotics is something that hangs above our heads. That means cancelling. We're all talking about an insufficient number of people right now, a job problem, a lack of labour. I'm afraid we'll get into a situation where we'll have the workforce, but they won't have anywhere to work, because it'll all be robotics. Technological development is terrible. Something that was unimaginable two, three years ago has absolutely become our reality, so I think what's ahead of us is that we're seriously dealing with the pension fund, so that we're just all ready for the talks together, ready for all of us to go out with the modes, so I guess some good solution will come out of it. I would also like to point out that very often it seems to us that we are just a punching bag, that no one ever tells you something commendable, that the PUPS is always guilty of everything that happens to pensioners, but, you know how, however, voters and all of our watch, just the results we get. I must admit that we are very pleased and that this support of the citizens is just looking around, here and now in these local elections ahead of us, we are the second in two places, in one place the third and I think that today we have submitted the fourth list, very quickly gathered voter support to hand over the list. It means that people measure and simply see whether we are aware of it or not. So, as our President Krkobic would say, elections are a scale for accurate measurement. Let's see, let's figure out who's doing what he's doing and how much he's doing, what his success and his contribution has been, and it's not a matter of you getting a big budget if you don't spend it the right way. So what we need is really one serious approach to everything, especially this new Law on PIO. It's not an easy road. We are prepared as a parliamentary group and as a PUPS to sit down and talk to all who have a good solution. That's so much from me, and we're going to be like a parliamentary group to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-11-28-0.u49803	Thank you. As it's 6:20 p.m., we've closed the debate for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. Does anyone want to ask a question, ask for a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Vladimir Djuric.
