ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42120	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected viewers of the day is the third day we discuss the laws of the field of health and these two very important laws, very human law. There shouldn't be controversy about it, but, well, this is a tall home, so I guess that's the way it should be. What irritated me yesterday was that yesterday at the expense of the SNS, the government and you, Mr. Minister, were told a lot of flat-rate and untrue. For the sake of truth, for the sake of viewers, I will taxfully list what it is the Government, the Ministry of Health, the SNS, in the extreme case, in the right case, with our President, Mr. Vukic, did on only one municipality, on one unit of local self-government of 17 Belgrade municipalities. First of all, it should be said that unlike the Dossian authorities by 2012, which completely devastated our health care, we remember only a number of affairs related to the dossal government, and as regards health care, dirty hospitals, lack of drugs and others, by the arrival of the SNS in 2012 on the rational use of funds, heavy fiscal policy measures and surpluses in the budget, we started to recover health in 2012. Here's what's on my municipality, the Vozdovac municipality, all built in just five years. First of all, the House of Health in the Lambs, which is now in office for 50,000 citizens from the Pubal settlements. Also, after 40 years, the House of Health was renovated on Duke Stepanovic Street. Then, a new infirmary was built in Stepa Stepanovic's village. A hospital was renovated in Kumodrag after 60 years. A new infirmary was built in Kumodraž 1, a renovated new infirmary in Kumodraž 2. Please, two homes of health and six ambulance units in one municipality only. Thank you. That's how it works. When people are responsible, when they're worth it, they also have the results of the work. That's how the SNS works. There's no affair for you. It's called responsible authority and you're honored by it. What is important, it should be pointed out, regarding this law, is that the aim of this law on human cells and organs is to achieve quality and security above all and you as minister and your ministry has been very determined, very humanely set in writing this law because it has proposed supervision, which is necessary. Then, to apply this law, there must be great awareness in people, high awareness and empathy that is really not foreign to this people. Since 2010 there are a lot of donors in Serbia, and I am very happy that there are donors because every day we have the loss of life and if there are no good people, we will never achieve this law. As we set out, this will be one of the most human countries in which these operations are most applied. What's the point of my law? The goal is that, given that we have surpluses in the budget, my amendment, we make as many specialized institutions as possible, and we do that because we already have surpluses in the budget, we make infrastructure, we make schools, we make modern new hospitals that will be according to all the standards for cell, tissue and human organs. We are a country of EU accession and we really need to apply all EU directives in our legislation, that's what we do. I'm happy this law is in order, this is one of the most human laws and I'm happy to vote on the proposals of all of your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42121	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42122	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, I have submitted my first amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on human cells and tissues for the reason that it is contained in my support and for the commitment that this area is based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, because of the intensive development of this area of medicine that offers us increasing treatment opportunities and to create the best conditions of development and medicine in this area. In view of the need to improve and specify the conditions, supervision and jobs in the area of the use of human cells and tissues from the living or from the deceased in humans, and based on years of experience, the government has proposed this law at the right time using constitutional and legal opportunities. That it is time for the new law to regulate this area, also says that here in principle debate and yesterday in the debate in particular by opposition MPs is mystifying medical practice in this area, introducing unfounded doubt, misreading certain provisions of the law and raising doubts about fair intentions both the legislator, the Government and the Ministry of Health, and the fair intentions of health workers and the entire institutions in this area. It seems to me that in this way fear is deliberately introduced and panic spread in the people because essentially one human idea wants to be presented to an inhuman, and lawmakers and those who need to implement the law in practice, health workers, plays as criminals and human organs traders. It seems that sowing fear and spreading panic has become the favourite method of working opposition MPs, honoring exceptions, and destroying the reputation of state institutions and destabilising Serbia and their ultimate goal, as political struggles and reasoned debates do not achieve any results. Therefore, it is time to remove any such law with any doubt, if for their basis so far and for any reason and to fully regulate the area of use of human cells and tissues from living or dead persons and all other actions and procedures such as giving, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution, at the end and application of human and tissue cells, and to define in a precise and clear manner which health institutions can apply for operations in this area and which conditions they must meet to obtain a permit. This law best applies to affirmation and promotion of voluntary organ and tissue giving for the treatment of other people, as the highest achievement of humanity. At the same time, this law achieves full harmonisation of domestic law in this area with EU law as recommended by the EU, thus improving the quality of healthcare provided in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, in line with EU rules. This law is in line with EU directives and decisions on quality and safety standards for donation with technical standards for donation to traceability requirements, with the notification of serious unwanted reactions and phenomena, with guidelines on the conditions of inspection and control measures, as well as with training and qualifications of officials for working in this area, with technical requirements for testing human tissues and cells, with the conditions for coding and procedures for verifying equivalent standards of quality and safety of imported tissues and cells. In addition, in September 2016 the European Commission gave a positive opinion on the proposal for this Law on Human Cells and Tissues, with specific recommendations that were later taken into account. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: I wanted to highlight the bill's importance for improving health care services, and thus the importance of this law on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42123	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of her Excellency Mrs Ildiz Polak Beil, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Suriname, who, with members of the Republic of Suriname delegation, is on an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. Let's welcome our friends and esteemed guests. Thank you. [[Applause]] Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42124	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, the reasons for the adoption of the Law on Human Cells and Tissues are contained in the need for the area of human cells and tissues to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that the area of medicine that is being developed intensively, as well as for healthcare institutions doing these tasks, to provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern world achievements. The reasons should also be sought in the fact that the proposal for this law came before us, that we developed, that we progressed as a society and that we continued with the comprehensive reforms that you started in 2012 and based on SNS policy and its President, Alexander Vukic. The results of the reform have led Serbia to be able to move forward through accelerated development, progress, a higher standard of living and a overall better life for our citizens. The disastrous management of economic policy from 2000 to 2012 has also ruined our health system and placed it on the list of European health systems in a line of undeveloped, or even 34th place. During that period, health care was accompanied by numerous affairs, mostly criminal character, and in failed promises I don't even want to speak. The responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic and the Ministry of Health has done a lot of things for these six years on infrastructure, on buying the most modern equipment, on sub-specialisation, has been renovated around 150 healthcare institutions, employs nearly 5,000 healthcare professionals of which more than 20,000 doctors have been approved and more than 4,000 specializations have been approved. Continuing work on the establishment of an information system, the introduction of an electro-recept, the shortened waiting time for treatment of cancer patients, record results in organ transplants, as well as the health care users' relationship put our health care in 20th place in 2017, together with the health care of Italy, and behind Serbia there are 11 EU member states. Health care must and may be a generator of positive changes, to contribute significantly to the growth of gross domestic product, because only a healthy person can be working able to contribute to the recovery of the economy, and thus to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which is the primary goal for all of us from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42125	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42126	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on cell and tissue transplants. It is this Article 1 that speaks of the conditions that a health care institution needs to meet in order to deal with certain activities, such as transplants. In fact, on a private road, it happens that we have strictly regulated conditions under which this area will function. It's something that really needs to bring quality in the coming period. In addition to defining the conditions for the process of donation, testing, cell distribution, therefore, we also have defined conditions for those other institutions, for just those institutions that will represent cell banks. In addition to these defined conditions and administrative procedures that are being dealt with in this way, these Assembly speakers today can also tell you, Mr. Minister, and your associates that we all have a goal together and that we all have to strive and pursue that goal together. Our common goal is definitely to reduce the number of patients who are waiting for the organ, but not in such a way that patients do not welcome the organ and end up, but to reduce the number of patients, by having an increased number of successful transplants, by having a much larger number of cadaveric transplants. That's all we need to have in our own visor and towards going. For these very reasons, I have said this and spoken this way according to this amendment, because in addition to the conditions that health institutions need to meet in order to deal with certain activities, we must all join forces together and pursue this goal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42127	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42128	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, I have submitted an amendment to this bill, which I propose to encourage this law to promote the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the development of healthcare. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, the president of the Republic of Serbia, made a number of laws in the previous period of time and many decisions made in the Republic of Serbia to make growth and development a normal category. Everything we had a few years ago we're trying to change, and we can't talk about changed social conditions, changed living standards, if we're not talking about growth and development. Growth and development generally connects with economic categories and it is nothing controversial, but essential growth and development is a biological source, a biological category. You can't talk about the development of one population, the development of a country, the development of a society, if you're not talking about the development of education and the development of health care. This law is primarily health care and there is no dilemma, but at the same time it is educational, educated, because it concerns a new full area that does not have enough in Serbian society, sometimes seems to be understanding. When you follow modern economic flows in the field of medicine, in the field of education, it is simply one of the functions of growth and development to change, educate and educate. When the Government of the Republic, or the Ministry of Health proposes this legislative proposal, in fact it goes on... a trail of world health practice and the normative solutions that exist. Of course, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we hear it and we hear it these days from our colleagues, we don't just bring normative acts. There are also a number of incredible investments that the state of Serbia is making in the field of health care, and therefore this law with all the investments and changes that are happening in your ministry makes complete sense, and in terms of health development in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42129	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42130	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, one of the main reasons for passing this law is to increase cadaverial donations, increase the number of organ transplants successfully done, reduce the waiting list for organ transplants. The law requires the adoption of a transplant programme that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The transplant program is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A transplant programme that will define clear procedures and procedures regarding the organisation of medical teams, the financing of the whole process, organ transplants. It was necessary to establish the basis for the establishment of an organisational system, as well as to establish effective procedures for the donation of cells and human tissues, i.e. the procurement of organs of dead persons in accordance with professional guidelines and ethical principles, modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as the quality and safety of transplant bodies. The bill makes it clear that the distribution of health institutions to perform transplant operations, i.e. organ and donor hospitals, has been carried out. In a clear way, the division of jobs and obligations carried out by one, or another, health institution mentioned above has been carried out. The law also sets out the role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority as competent bodies in the field of biomedicine at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, i.e. the establishment of inspection supervision within the Biomedicine Authority. One of the important newspapers of this law is the simplification of the process of granting consent to organ transplants, avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping a register, i.e. the introduction of a ban on the donation of organ donors, the law has provided the possibility for every full-time citizen of Serbia to prohibit the donation of their bodies in writing or oral form, as well as the possibility of family members to do so, if the deceased person has not declared themselves to be alive in this regard, while in view of minor citizens, the informed consent of legal agents or guardians is foreseen. As this law creates conditions for the promotion of human cell and tissue donations, it raises awareness of our citizens' importance of the donation of SNS in the day of voting with special satisfaction will vote for this and other proposed laws. The bill on human cells and tissues brings, I would say, revolutionary changes and only after adoption and the beginning of application of this law will you see what benefits they are, because everyone waiting for a transplant will mean life. Those whose transplant is the only option of healing await that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42131	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42132	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The law on human cells and tissues with the desire to contribute and with the desire to respond as many people as possible and to help every one when needed, if necessary. By the way, I started working as a veterinary technician at a veterinary station, worked with people for a number of years, I was the president of the municipality and my life trip was and my wish was always to help people. I live in Srlig, I live in southeastern Serbia. At the time I was president of the municipality, I signed the donor card in 2011, it was September the month, where we made such an activity through the Clinical Center, and my wish was that it was that moment, back seven years ago, that if something happens tomorrow, if an organ is needed, and my organs are right, to be used normally and to help those people, to save someone's life. I think that we, who are here in the Parliament of MPs, and you ministers, have obligations to all of our citizens of Serbia. I was also as a man who began to deal with politics and as president of the United Peasants' Party, in 2014, headed towards our President, Alexander Vukic, because I wanted to work with him for a better life for all of us in Serbia, with a special emphasis on southeastern Serbia. I wanted to work with him to fight corruption, where Mr. Vukic worked on it. Together, all of us who are here, we want all of our people who need to get home to health care, to the clinical centers, to be met there by doctors, nurses, to work with them the way they finished colleges or high schools. We all know there have been a lot of bad things, but as a man, I also support and fight corruption at all levels. At our clinic, Nis Director of the clinical center Dr. Zoran Radovanovic is quite active in fighting corruption, where there are many doctors who have been caught in some criminal acts and processed. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I think all these laws that are now proposed, these are the laws that our people need, our children need, because we all know that when it's most difficult, we have to address you, the homes of health. I thank you once again for proposing these bill proposals to say this here with the wish that in the coming period of southeastern Serbia, small homes of health have the opportunity, to have interns, to have people who will deal with our patients. Because, believe me, in small municipalities like the Srlig municipality, we don't have an internal medicine doctor, and there are a number of people who are sick, people who need help. Otherwise, back a few days, seven or eight days ago, a very dear person died, it was my second mother, and I'm sure there was a need, if there was maybe one of these laws, maybe we could save her life. I thank you again, and I call you as Minister of Health responsible for the Ministry of Health to ensure the conditions that small homes of health have adequate specialities, and one of these is internal medicine, because believe me, a large number of our people are suffering from cardiovascular disease and heart disease. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42133	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42134	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted to Article 1 of this Law the amendment 1 to add Amendment 3 to the provisions of this law laying down the conditions for the achievement of quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application. Control over the implementation of this law and the conduct of certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of jobs in human cells and tissues. The need to improve and specify the conditions of organisations and activities in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as the supervision of the performance in the area mentioned in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has been established. The 2009 law governing the area of cell and tissue transplants did not recognise, among other things, the importance of defining and regulating the work in the area of cells which included the activity of donation, obtaining, testing, processing, processing, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from living or dead persons, which caused poor years of practice and the situation in healthcare institutions to carry out procedures in this area, but without defining the conditions at national level. That is why this proposal for a law on human cells and tissues has precisely defined which health institutions can apply for jobs in the area, as well as what conditions human tissue banks should meet. This law also lays down simpler procedures for issuing authorisations to health institutions for carrying out jobs in human cells and tissues, as well as for establishing an information system in the mentioned area, and all this leads to this area being regulated systematically, i.e. to establish and provide conditions for achieving quality and safety standards at all levels, which is the most important. What I must stress is the fact that Serbian health care did not meet the criteria for evaluation within the European Health Index by 2012, and when it met those criteria, it was the worst estimate in Europe. Thanks to the dedicated work of President Aleksandar Vukic, the health ministry headed by Minister Zlatibor Loncar and his associates has stopped the sundiving of health and laid the basis for a modern system in line with European standards. The evidence is that international factors have estimated that our health care has progressed enormously over the past two years in every respect, but we, of course, will not stop, we will do even more and better. Thus, by adopting and implementing the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues, essential and systemic progress is being made in this segment, thus ensuring the development of health care in the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, the SNS will, in any case, support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42135	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. By amendment from my colleague? The word has a folk MP Sonja Pavlovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42136	Thank you. I must remind all present guests, as well as fellow MPs, that it is responsibility for these laws now and here. I'm asking you to discuss them. What's been going on for the past 20 years has been both good and bad, but we now need to be responsible for discussing these laws that are ahead of us. In doing so, I think it is extremely incorrect to say, in the least, not to be hypocritically, to share MPs, i.e. different opinions on the inhuman and human. It's really not right, we're being imputed here to the opposition, that we should all agree on this together. I agree that the debate should take a little while, I agree, although I don't think these laws deserve a brief discussion. They need to be carefully and well thought out and discussed. But you want it to end quickly, you want us all to come up with the same opinion, and we can't really, out of about 800 amendments, as far as we have, come up with this human organ transplant law, so we can actually discuss it. What I want to say to everyone is about both laws and I would like you to understand to yourself is that we are actually representing all citizens of Serbia here. So we represent both healthy and sick, believing and amazing, human and less human, those who live in urban centres and those who live in rural centres, educated and less educated, those who are for these laws and those who are against these laws and in them should vote on a legal proposal that can satisfy all of them. So we're not just one group of people who has a health problem or a group of people who's educated enough to decide to be a donor. So we have to get back to the beginning. This law cannot be allowed into the congregation without having a previous education. So whatever law this is, we need to figure out where we live, what kind of people, who all Serbian citizens are, so you have both these and those, that they're actually being educated. Education actually goes through school. Expecting that someone, I already said, would go and give their consent or disagreement or his family would decide whether or not to decide, and I didn't get an answer to the question – what happens if someone doesn't have any relatives? Who decides to donate his organs? I'd like to hear the answer to that question from the minister, or is that going to be dealt with by sublaws? I don't want to discuss conspiracy theories or any criminal elements at all here, or to have the idea that it could be. If we were to discuss this, if we had any thought about it, all of us, together with these guests and the minister at the head, should get out of this room and never come back to it again, because we could not face a single citizen of Serbia. So please don't divide us into human and inhumane, don't criticize everything you think, which someone else has different opinions from you. If we should all have a common opinion, let's go cheap and congregation functions, let's all delegate together, give authority-powerfully, to one MP and let them speak for us 25. I don't believe it would suit any of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42137	The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42138	Mr. Lončar with his associates, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is known to have been given the possibility of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to free various categories of socially endangered population in Serbia, from paying participation for a number of health services – reviews by the selected doctor or specialist, rehabilitation, medicines, where we have a fixed participation of 50 dinars, laboratory analysis, etc. Of course, the condition is that someone would be released from paying for participation in these health services, that total income per family member is less than the minimum net earnings per month of applying for the release of participation. I think somewhere now the minimum net profit has been determined at around 24,000 dinars. My opinion is that one category of Serbian citizens is discriminated against by existing regulations. In fact, it is about exiled Serbs from Croatia who receive very small pensions from Croatia here in Serbia. I will set an example of a woman, Zora Katic, who receives a pension from Croatia of 4,500 dinars and when she wanted to apply for the release of participation in these medical services, she is told in the RFZO branch in Sremska Mitrovica, where she lives, that she has no right to be free of participation, because she is a foreign pensioner, although I repeat, her pension is 4,500 dinars. It is a woman who is a difficult patient who drinks seven, eight medications a month, has multiple examinations of the selected doctor and specialists, has multiple blood and other analyses and its costs of health services, i.e. the payment of the participation amounting to over 1,000 dinars, and I repeat, her pension is over 4,500 dinars. My request to Minister Loncar is that we see the possibility not to take it hard, mechanically that it is a foreign pensioner, because now some Serbian citizen who has a pension or income of 22,000, 23,000 dinars do not pay participation, because the amount is below the minimum net profit of 24,000, and Zora Katic and thousands of such pensioners from Croatia unfortunately pay. I would like to see the possibility of how to implement this regulation, that we have one meeting with you and with the director of RFZO and to correct this wrong, especially given the fact that it is about people who are being discriminated against by Croatia itself. Namely, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, an unfavourable social insurance agreement with Croatia was signed, which is why if Serbian pensioners transfer their pension from Croatia to Serbia, they lose the so-called. A protective supplement. So, if there was no unfavourable provision, she would have a 160-euro pension with a protective allowance, and since she had to transfer her pension from Croatia to Serbia, she gets that basis, it is the agricultural pension of only 4,500 dinars, slightly less than 40 euros. So, once again, I ask you to see if we can amend this legislation that thousands of Serbian citizens, expelled Serbs who have minimum pensions, below the censors, so minimum earnings in Serbia, are free from participations to these health services and to reviews at the chosen doctor and laboratory analyses, related to rehabilitation and about paying for 50 dinar drug participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42139	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42140	I don't mind, just to see what's going on. I'm not sure that it's enough to make changes only at the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund, I think it has to do with both the PIO and the Social, but we can set up a meeting next week and sit down, get all those facts out, and we'll see what we can do as soon as possible. It doesn't make any sense, but I guess it's some legal logic that can be solved for sure. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42141	By amendment, MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42142	Thank you, Minister Lonchar, for your understanding. We'll get back to you with one delegation, with all these facts and data, and see if we can solve this problem. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42143	Thank you. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr. Mihajlo Jokic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42144	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this law, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to health affirmation." For viewers who follow this congregation debate, I will only briefly say that in the first article of the law it is practically concluded that this law lays down the conditions for the achievement of quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application, covering the tasks of donation, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and use of human cells and tissues in humans by a living donor or by a dead person. Since we're discussing Article 1 yesterday and as far as I've noticed, none of them are, I repeat because of the viewers who are following this debate, at least read and know what it is, I'm also in that debate in principle, and not just me, but many MPs, said these are the laws of medical professions and sciences and top medical doctrines. In general, in medicine all laws are human. They're humane because they deal and aim to prevent disease, treat disease, and extend the life span. So medicine and the work of doctors and medical staff is deeply human. If they made a pyramid or a scale of importance, the laws on cell and tissue transplants and organs would be at the top of the pyramid as the most highly humane laws in medicine. Also, expert teams dealing with this job belong to a group of highly sophisticated, trained experts of all profiles, not just a doctor, because there are many others. This law is multidisciplinary, biological, medical and requires a lot of trained staff, quality personnel, equipment, and therefore, in my opinion, it is at the top of the pyramid. I said in the principle debate, these laws are totally apolitical. They came from professions and medical doctrines. I may be called, but we say the fact is that we have two aspects of the discussion. We have aspects of these that are affirmative for health and for the law, because it is done in accordance with the superior medical and modern science and doctrine and offers adequate and best solutions. There's a discussion in the direction of affirmation of what's being said in the law. On the other hand, we have discussions that gave a slightly different vision. They were looking to be a minister, a ministry, a government, and even President Vukic, accused of violating the constitution, denying human rights, not to speak, and I must say, they were looking for a criminal component in terms of trade and stealing human organs. So, suddenly, it will give an aspect of something that is potentially possible, and by doing so, the margins of this law are used, I repeat, which are high-level medical laws, to attack the government and degrade the work. Of course, citizens who monitor the transmission can see that. What else is significant? In this and in this debate, these discussions are more, in my opinion, misinformation, it's ugly, it's misinformation of citizens, giving such ugly aspects. So I urge the citizens, and during this discussion, to enter Parliament's website, to enter the law site in the procedure, to read all these members of the law that we are discussing, precisely because an ugly, criminal component is given, a corrupt component of this law. Col. Martinović and others are directly involved in this violation of the Constitution, human rights and such misinformation, by clear reading of the members, saying that all these things are clearly resolved in the law, but let the citizens themselves enter and make sure that they have the basis for these remarks or are all solved by the relevant members, as well as those legal pins, as our people say, and they will see that there is no such aspect. Attacking the government, in yesterday's discussion, giving criminal and corrupt aspects of the law, in fact, they directly attacked the medical profession, doctors and the entire medical profession. Leave the exceptions. It's not like that in reality. You all know that, citizens know that. I still have to point out that the discussions of individual opposition MPs based on the professional aspect of the law were affirmative. So, colleagues related to the medical profession from the opposition ranks discussed affirmably yesterday both in the congregation debate and on the board, making it clear that they support the law because it promotes this area. And I'm glad that the people and the MPs of that profession supported it, because that's a fact, it's written in law. I'm sorry that a little bit, I have to use the term, lay interpretations and malicious interpretations, they gave an ugly picture of the law on possible abuses, and they directly attacked doctors and medical staff. It is not right, and yesterday, my colleague Milosavljevic and some colleagues stepped in defense of our profession, because it is unnecessary in the laws that, I repeat, I will repeat again, and in the second, third, fourth amendment, health care, which are deeply human, which are highly medically done, presented in this, to see viewers, in the thick law, only once, in the law of cell and tissue transplantation. There's another one, a law relating to tissue transplants, and a third one is about psychoactive substances. One more thing I forgot to say. In that debate, the viewers who followed, in my opinion, one opposition MP discussed, the discussion was support for the anti-vaccinal lobby. If he wasn't aware of what he was saying, he should take it and see the video. By criticizing the government, he, I apologized for the expression, which makes the fairy tales of protecting human rights and responsibility of parents towards the vaccine, in fact, directly supported a group of laymen, people who deal with misinformation, who make up the antivaccinal lobby. We've discussed this here several times on the board, the vaccine is the fluid of modern civilization. To repeat, if it wasn't for vaccination, we've cured many diseases, especially at child's age, with vaccines. In each place, not only a medical profession, but also the responsibility of MPs means that it respects the opinion of medicine and medical doctrines, that it does not give space, no dilemma, no doubt, no support, no view, not words, to a group of people who represent an antivaccinal lobby. I resent him here, it's a different opinion, an opposition opinion, I respect, but don't use this because you harm not only the health of people, you directly harm the state by supporting people, and especially when there's an aspect of overkilling. These are people of questionable moral qualities, manipulants to sick people and other people's weakness, and they don't deserve any support, not here in this high house, because MPs represent, we all represent the appropriate group of people who voted for us. We have to talk about health at this point. I've taken a little bit more of my time away from my colleagues, I'm going to take more, apologize to those who are close to the end for maybe cutting them short. When my colleague Ljiljana mentioned what the government did, I now have to do a little bit of my profession, since I'm a pathologist by profession, let me say, and that's a shadow profession, which is exactly what's been done about that profession. So, pathologist, what can I say, work on the edge of life and death, sometimes I say "the twilight zone". We're looking at diagnostics in living organs, tissues and cells, and we're making a diagnosis, and after death, we're looking at it all in another way right now. It is known for pathologists, because they are necessary in diagnostics and our profession is in the shadow of these laws as well. You see, by 2012, in the diagnosis of all tumours, to take cancer, malignant breast tumor, in the standard of therapy, it is necessary to establish hormonal status, oestrogen and progesterone receptor, HER-2, to you and may not mean to the viewers, but when you hear it, I took breast cancer, because it's spread and there's a lot of campaigns for it, it refers to other tumours. We in Kragujevac at the Clinical Center started to make receptors, there and in 2007, in 2008, when there was another minister, and we had to charge from patients 2,000 dinars per hormonal receptor. So for the diagnosis of malignant breast tumor, that was about 6,000, about 100 euros. Not to bother you, we had these three markers, and that's necessary, and you as MPs need to know, because there are plenty of malignancies. Now, in 2018, especially since 2012 and 2013, simply the Ministry of Health by Directive, organisational support, no patient pays for that diagnostic. We've got a prescription for all the hormonals of about 60 palettes, and it's all been charged before, and without that diagnostics, patients can't go to air therapy, to chemo, to get their disease forecasts. So by the time of 2011, 2012, when we directly charged from patients, whether they had money or not, no one asked them how they were doing. Now you're coming and doing it for free. That's why I wanted to tell these fellow opposition MPs and viewers about one profession in the shadows, which is important in diagnostics, unfortunately, malignancies, that this ministry has done enough to protect them and that they do not have, in addition to being at risk of health, adequate and financial costs. Thank you for your attention, I've made it a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42145	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Desanka Repac submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42146	Thank you. I'd like to welcome the representatives of the government and Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to thank them for the laws that are ahead of us, which are very high-quality, highly professional, necessary and which to modernise and change this area in health care. We have before us a bill on human cells and tissues. This is a very current topic regarding the greatest human resource, health. All the laws that are passed are newspapers that change, improve and act on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus health laws. The laws that are passed are for the benefit of the citizens. This law extends life or enables life. The law regulates this area professionally and ethically. A cell and tissue transplant procedure can only be performed if it is medically justified. It is a procedure, coasting on life - threatening or aimed at improving the quality of life. This is a topic that is not sufficiently publicised in a way that is very important and important in practice. The provisions of this law also apply to stem cells. stem cells are the basic cells of the human organism that successfully restore and regenerate all cells and tissues. They can develop into any tissue or cell type. The stem cells changed medicine revolutionaryly. The stem cells in the cord blood are used to treat more than 80 diseases. In the last 25 years, there's been a practice of keeping stem cells from the umbilical cords. Every year, the number of diseases treated with them increases. The first in the world to receive stem cells in 1958 were our physicists from Vinci. The transplant was done in Paris. Of these five physicists, four of them remained alive, one of them felt that he was not very irradiated and had not received an adequate dose of stem cells. The stem cells build the organism, restore damaged cells and serve to treat. The stem cell transplant is a modern form of treatment acquired, innate, and for some and only successful therapy. I would like to point out that a promotion programme should be put in place that will have an adequate effect on the change of citizens' awareness regarding the donation of their organs. No donors, no transplants. Transplantation is increasingly used as one of the ways in which patients are treated. The transplant is top medicine, very expensive, immeasurable, but more expensive is human life. If you didn't know, it's 16 times more likely that we'll need someone else's organ than you'll be able to give your organs to someone else. We have insufficient information on the need and benefits of taking and keeping stem cells. So we do everything we can to help a sick man and vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42147	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42148	Thank you, Your Honor. Listening to the discussions during yesterday and today, and sometimes the discussion is mild, I mean, just hearing. Why am I saying this? I'll speak as a man who waited for a transplant in 2011 and waited for a donor. In 2011, the world's world list of bone marrow donors, which is now said to be grammatically correct, had 17 million donors in Serbia only 2,600 and 2011. The average children who waited for a bone marrow transplant in 2011 were 30 children, of which every fourth child was lucky to be his relative, brother, sister. I see the medicine has now advanced, and now it can be a parent. I wasn't lucky in 2011 that my sister, who had all my father's genes, had something very little from my mother, so they asked her if she felt pain when I was suffering the pain, how much we were the same, means we look like an egg today. Unfortunately, she couldn't be my donor and I was waiting for a donor, because in Serbia at the time we couldn't find donors to do a transplant either at the clinic or at VMA, we couldn't get a donor from abroad, because we weren't still members of the World Organisation, given the small number of donors in Serbia. I did my transplant in Italy, thank God, it all worked out right, and I'm surprised by some of the discussions that were yesterday. Someone should be thinking that in 2011, and that I went through the Institute for Health Insurance for Transplantation to Rome, because Rome was then on the list of institutions that do transplants for patients from Serbia, that was about 120,000 euros. Just the costs of transplanting and that hospital treatment, after that day hospital, not to mention how much the costs are, if your donor was from America, like a young man who was a donor to me, the cost alone, he gives everything and, unlike Europe where it's taken from the blood, he insisted in America to take exactly from his bones and everything he had healthy in his system, and that seems to me two kilograms and 400 grams of bone marrow, he gave it to me to donate to me and to get my transplant done. It cost 37,000 euros and then to add it up, let it be 50 people a year, let the Republic of Serbia take 120,000 euros, that's six million euros. For six million euros, we're going to buy a lot of equipment, a lot of new drugs, and we're going to make it possible for those kids, and now they have to be treated abroad, because we don't have them here. And, I mean, if I don't, I'm going to continue in the second amendment in the same story, I think this is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42149	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42150	I thank you, honourable chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow citizens of Serbia, for the third day we have been discussing very important health laws and I really think these are laws that are very important and that should unite us, all here, and that we are all working on raising, above all the awareness of our citizens, about how important these laws are and how important our humanity is to show. I believe that when the proposed laws are at stake, there should be no dilemma or doubt about their application, as well as any suspicion that there will be any abuse. What the proposed laws represent is a social signal that society is ready to show humanity, that is, the highest degree of humanity and a signal to citizens that society is ready to accept the transplant as a normal therapeutic venture that is done everywhere in the world. On this occasion, I want only for those citizens who are watching this transmission, and maybe they still don't know what it means to be transplanted. Transplanting means something that represents many people, especially young people, that they can continue their lives better and better, and certainly organs are taken from people who have survived brain death, and we need to introduce our citizens to the fact that there is no return from brain death. Indeed, no one will take organs from living people, there will be no abuses, because dozens of people are involved in the transplant process. So, in one day or night, dozens of medical workers participate in the process and may at all be suspected of any abuse. I think that we should all take a unique position and work on raising our awareness and giving our citizens a clear message from this room, but also in contact outside this room, that this is something that is most humane and proud of our government, to our ministry, which, after so many years, has been able to pass such good laws. Dear Minister, I would like to thank you this opportunity for everything you have done in the past few years and today, to recover our health care from ruined health until 2012, and we all know what kind of mockery it was in 2012. Keep it up, and we'll back you up on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42151	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my knowledge in the field of medicine is within the scope of an average patient but I still dare speak on this subject, believing that the recovery of our health system is the most visible, significant shift in the development of our society and our country, because it touches every citizen regardless of social and social, political, intellectual or any other status. The recovery and recovery entails an over-the-counter modernisation towards the most modern scientific achievements in the field of medicine and application in our practice, in our health care, but it also implies an expansion of the awareness of the citizens themselves about the need to accept modernization. The law on human cells and tissues is exactly where we need to live, in the minds of our citizens, in order to accept the donation and acquisition of human cells and tissues as the most human act. I know it won't go easy and the example is our debate, the MPs should be better informed than the average citizen, so here we can't find a common position and I wonder how it is possible when we come from a people who 800 years ago were modern as far as medicine is concerned, who knew the secrets of surgery. That's what the frescoes in our monasteries testify about. I hope we've all seen Cosmo and Damian, the sacred witches in Zica, no doubt with a surgical knife in their hand, testifying that they knew the secrets of surgery and that it's not even a myth or legend, but the truth. Today we catch up with the modern world and try to reach it again. In Serbia's lagging behind on the way of modernity, however, various historical, political, geopolitical circumstances have affected significantly the former government with its immutable, majority ministers who ended their health needs abroad. We also had a penitent testimony about it, and they mostly used their position in health care to lobby for the benefit of the pharmaceutical house, making themselves the top of the pharmaceutical mafia, getting rich at the expense of health and their own people. By passing such a law, this government and this ministry show their true intention, their great humanity and their great work when it comes to the quality of life of the most endangered citizens and thus improves the entire state of the nation and it is indeed almost a matter of decency to be against it. Only hypocrites can politicize on this subject. Nobility is the essence of this law, as my colleague Dr. Laketic said. Nobleness is the real name for this law. Isn't that enough reason to back up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42153	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Tiana the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42154	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as this is an area of medicine that develops intensively and creates treatment opportunities, this bill will regulate the area of human cells and tissues in accordance with the highest standards of medical science and practice. Following the long-term application of the Law on cell and tissue transplantation, which was adopted in 2009, a clear need has been established to define and offices of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues for human application, as well as the conditions under which these jobs can be done, such as donation, obtaining, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues from a living or dead person in humans. Also, the existing law has not clearly defined an institution that could be a human tissue bank. The clear definition and precision of the conditions in this area with regard to the performance of jobs, space, equipment and staff would leave us with a long-standing bad practice, because health institutions doing certain jobs in this area cannot apply for authorisation to carry out these tasks, so that this area in the Republic of Serbia is completely unregulated, without clear rules and precise conditions. The proposed law clearly defines which health institutions can apply in carrying out jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues, including any conditions they have to fulfil in order to obtain a permit. In addition, in order to develop this area according to the highest standards of medical science and practice, it is necessary to define a register of stem cell donors in the Republic of Serbia to allow faster identification of non-compared donors and the provision of transplant cells. The proposed law regulates activities in this area, which contributes to the development and improvement of work with national donors, contributes to faster achievement of healthcare and improves international co-operation. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42155	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42156	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues, which I propose to add Article 3 to Article 1. The amendment further defines Article 1. It's a bill of law. The reason for the adoption of the bill is that the area of human cells and tissues in humans is based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that the area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great treatment opportunities, as well as that healthcare institutions performing these tasks provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. Mr. Minister, I will mention DZ Bujanovac, aware that the founding rights belong to local self-government, not to the Ministry of Health, but I must say because of the level of health care and patient health care, in accordance with your powers, send inspection supervision to do the analysis and impose measures if necessary. In fact, it's about June 18, 2018. SO Bujanovac adopted the final account of the municipality for 2017, and the report on the work of the DZ with the financial report for 2017 adopted on 28 June 2018, which means ten days after the adoption of the final account, i.e. the budget of the Municipality of Bujanovac for 2017. The biggest illogicality is that the 2017 financial report DZ Bujanovac disagrees with around 2,400,000 dinars with the amount shown in the final account, i.e. the municipality's 2017 budget. When the council members at SO Bujanovac asked the president of the municipality what it was about, the president of the municipality did not want to answer this question, he did not want to talk to the council at all. According to the report, the health home for 2017 shows 2,400,000 dinars of more money than it was in the final account of the municipality for 2017, and how local self-government pays money in the name of material costs, and the home of health from money intended for material expenses pays the salary to the uncontracted workers, I will speak according to the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42157	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42158	We don't have any problem sending it to check out, but for everyone's sake, just so you know one thing. As for the home of health, they belong to local self-government. The local self-government is elected by the Director, elected by the Management Board, elected by the Supervisory Board. We pay salaries, we give money for consumer material, for all that is necessary, but to whom they will choose as director, how the board of directors will work, the board of directors responds to them is all a matter of local self-government. We can send an inspection, we can tell what happened, but I'm asking everyone to know what the address is to get rid of it. We don't choose any of them, or the director, or the board of directors, or anything, but we'll send you a report, because we can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42159	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42160	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, discusses a set of laws in the field of health and other laws. These are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia and to comply with EU laws yesterday, but I am always happy when we talk and comply with EU laws, because this is how we go as fast as possible towards the EU. In order not to ask me why he thinks so, it is because it is crucial to have standards in medicine and in other areas and to solve many problems in Serbia as well as our relationship in the region, to facilitate the lives of our citizens, with respect for the policy led by Mr Alexander Vukic and relations with other and large forces and putting the Republic of Serbia in the right place. You were experiencing a lot of criticism yesterday for completely insignificant things, whether someone took pictures with someone. Well, please, here are your albums, so you can see who took the picture and what it's about and what it's about. You deserve congratulations for what you did in the field of health and medicine, because only a few years ago since your arrival was a complete mess and a completely devastated area. You've done a lot about the infrastructure in medicine, about the personnel, about the equipment. I come from Smederevska Palanka, but I've worked in Smedereva for a long time, so I'm going to give you a brief example. There's a professor here. Vekic, whom I especially thank, because he always had time to help when we came to him on the issue of St. Luke's Hospital in Smederev. Today it is one organised regional centre thanks to you, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the mayors of the city of Smederev and the two directors who are excellent managers and who work well. I said, I come from Smederevska Palanka, where the situation is something different, we all know that. There may have been better personnel solutions and better doctors. Unfortunately, what I'm about to say is, the truth is, a lot of them want to be directors, so that's where the problems are now overcome, I hope. I know that you also want to make a regional centre from Stefan High Hospital in Smederjevska Palanca because it provides services for more than 100,000 inhabitants of Smederjevska Palanka municipality and Velika Plana and the surrounding area, because it is closer to Smederjevska Palanka than Kragujevac to someone from Topola. Territorial. I know you're building projects to arrange that hospital, to equip it in an appropriate way, and I'm saying, we have another regional centre in the Danube County, but I'm not just going to brag, I'm going to point out some things that I'm asking you to pay attention to. In large centres such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, I think the staff issue is being addressed in an adequate manner when specialists are involved. In the Smederevska Palanka municipality, I don't think so, because a large number of doctors, high-quality doctors, retired. Another group of doctors retires. You know how hard it is to prepare a new frame, how much work it takes to invest, how much work it does both itself and the state and the ministry. So I ask that someone from the ministry follow it, because, I say, I'm a man who lives there, and 100,000 other people who live with me there together, we want that regional centre to stay, to function as well as possible, and we have the opportunity to apply these laws that we're making today using this regional health center as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42161	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42162	Thank you for noticing what's been done, but for that, of course, it won't stop. As for the staff, I want everyone to know, we don't have any problem hiring personnel, 10,200 medical workers we've hired in the past slightly less than four years, we've given over 6,000 specializations that were banned when we got here. So these are specific things, facts that are extremely simple to verify. We just need whoever runs the facility to have a vision of what he needs. So, nothing else. There's no one we haven't met with both employment and specialization. When we see that there's a vision, over the next 10 years, that now he's going to make a plan for whom he's going to give a specialization, which he's going to need to specialize. A resident can't be there for all four, five years, he's got to go on a cruise, he's got to go to another center, he's got to be on duty at the hospital, he's got to do it all. So it's a vision, it's not realistic that we can get to see everyone, but that's why there's a director, that's why there's management, that's why there are commissioners who have to have and that's their responsibility what they need over the next 10 years. We don't plan for six months, in a year, we make it in 10 years. We haven't got the first specialist yet, the specialization we gave in 2014, and look how long it's been. We haven't got the first one yet. So, it's a process that takes time and you just can't work it out overnight, but we have to solve it in time now and plus make up for everything that's been going on, the ban on specialization, the ban on everything that's been going on where we've had more teachers of physical, plumbers and non-medical workers, drivers and the like, but medical workers. If someone thinks it was easy to stop it, so it starts to correct itself and it corrects itself from toilets that couldn't be closed, from windows, they couldn't, you had to put blankets to close, but everything you do right doesn't count, you're always looking for something more. But it doesn't matter, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42163	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by the People's Sent Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42164	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People, Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I am sorry that there are no those who criticised yesterday everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past. Several MPs, it was from the former regime, but they ran away. Probably at the offices now they're listening to what we're about to say. I wish they were here, but they're not, let's ask them now that they're one piece and at home, they're getting up now, they're going to come to the coffee shop at about four o'clock in the afternoon, that's what they do every time, to just ask them this -- is it true that Serbian healthcare before the arrival of SNS to power and Alexander Vukic at the head of the Prime Minister was the worst in Europe? The European Commission's assessment. Gentlemen, is it true or not, answer yourself now in your apartments or offices? Secondly, is it true that already in 2015 it took 30th place Serbian healthcare of 35 on the list? Noting that we weren't even ranked this year, we didn't make the ranking list. So, not 35, but who knows which one. In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. 30 on a 35-list. Is it true or not, I'd like to cross the data, because that's the opposition we're looking for, to talk to the arguments, to make suggestions, to give ideas, and to say what's wrong with health care? Thank God there's something wrong and it'll be in the future. Is it true that in 2016, with the 30th Serbian health care, it has already fallen to 24? It was then that seven EU countries were behind us. I'd like it to be denied by the gentlemen of the former regime. Is it true that in 2017, the Serbian Health Department took 20th place? To recap one sentence, from the arrival of the SNS to power, Mr. Alexander Vukic for the president and you, Mr. Minister, who is responsible for this success, for 15 seats, that the former regime is only for one place or 10 places, where our end today would be. So much for the criticism of the former regime. I'm moving on to the amendment. With this amendment, Mr. Vice-President, I wanted this whole law to contribute to a certain extent to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, because only such Serbia can ensure the progress of general medical conditions, this is my amendment, which affects, among other things, the mental health of each individual in the Republic of Serbia. If Vuk Jeremic, in a people called "Wolf descendant", had secured general medical conditions, he would not have written in the French newspaper "L Mond" on 17.07. Gentlemen 2018, when President Vukic had a very important meeting for the state of Serbia with President Makron, he accused us of friendly France, accused the state of Serbia, I underline, accused the state of Serbia and its president when he said, I quote -- that Serbia is the leader of a stable trend in the Western Balkans. Thus, the president of France only two hours before meeting with Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic could read the indictment, the most difficult in the history of diplomatic relations in general in the history of diplomatic Serbian relations. I don't have time to talk about what's more stable, and there will be time in this high house and you will see whose expressions are from where he picked them up, and what charges are made against us at the expense of the state of Serbia, the President and the Government, when the president and the government invest all their mental and physical abilities to solve one of the biggest and most significant problems in Serbia's history. History certainly will not forgive Vuk Jeremic for everything he has done against the interests of Serbian citizens. That is why, Vice-President, this amendment is very important for general medical conditions, so that some types in the image of Vuk Jeremic do not appear on Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42165	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42166	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which reads - this law encourages the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the health system. A very important legal solution which, as part of the reform of health care and raising the quality of health institutions invested in significant funds by the government and the resolution ministry, as well as by local self-government... We can be sure that the Resort Ministry is doing everything possible to raise the quality of health services and that by getting modern equipment with these legal solutions we can save people's lives, which is the most important thing right now. Unlike the opposition, we raise the quality of life for citizens, and they, in addition to all the bad things they did in the past and while they were in power and in those years completely devastated Serbia, are today joining the attacks on the president and the government. When we have Thaci in one day who says that yesterday's meeting was the shortest in the last six years, but it was not easy to talk to President Vukic, who believes that Kosovo is still part of Serbia, that Kosovo or Kacanik is the heart of Serbia, we again here in the National Assembly have an opposition that speaks in favour of such statements, which speaks for the benefit of people who want Serbia on their knees, so Mr Obradovic says it is obvious that President Vukic, in order to preserve power, is obliged to sign a legally binding agreement with Pristina, so we have Djordz Vukadinovic who said that the Assembly has no information about the talks that Vukic is taking place in Brussels, so Mrs Tatjana Macura has to submit a report on what is being negotiated. All voiced support for the president of self-called Kosovo, who, on the other hand, makes it clear that President Vukic has a clear stance that is also the stance of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42167	Thank you. My colleagues, Radeta, here you are, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42168	We also mentioned Kosovo and Metohija in the debate in this debate, but mentioned first the "yellow house" and organ trafficking. Of course, we never mind extending the topic to anything that is current in Serbia. We cry out for such sessions where the MP can say anything he thinks he should say. So now, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I say what we think is very important, and it's about Kosovo for Metohija, it's about the negotiations, it's about what Vucic is talking about every time he comes back from the negotiations, what's been going on there, the hardest, the hardest, but we've never found out what's really been said and what's been really agreed on. Will there be a legally binding agreement? We Serbian radicals don't think at all. Because this legally binding agreement, whatever it is, is certainly something that will be a knife in the back of the state of Serbia, which would be a knife in the back of the state of Serbia and Serbs with KIM. Also, someone here earlier says because of the viewers, as if we are the National Theatre, not because of the public, we want to draw attention to the fact that in time, Serbian citizens realize that they do not accidentally fall under the influence and that they do not accept any referendum on KIM status. The KIM status was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and no one has the right to change it and no one has the right to offer any other and different solution. The deception is every referendum, because the referendum actually confirms the will of the government. In the referendum, in implementation, in preparation, etc., only the government participates, not the opposition. That's why we warn citizens not to naively fall for the story of a referendum on KIM status. As far as the laws we're talking about today are concerned, we'll use that time when we come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42169	Thank you. Comrade Becic, do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42170	I just wanted to repeat what I said, and I think it's important what I said. I quote a statement said -- yesterday's meeting was the shortest in the last six years, but it was not easy to talk to President Vukic, who believes Kosovo is still part of Serbia, that Kosovo or Kacani is the heart of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42171	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42172	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the proposed laws are a sign that we as a society are ready to show the highest degree of humanity, but also a sign that as a society, we are ready to accept something that is a normal therapeutic procedure in medicine everywhere in the world. Of course, we all health care professionals will work with our patients, especially selected doctors, to promote the legacy of the organs. In yesterday's discussion you could hear from certain opposition MPs negative connotations on your work and on the work of the Ministry of Health, which is absolutely not true and is not responding to the facts, and this creates jealousy, envy, and even hatred, but it is already their problem. No one can dispute the existence of a new clinic in Nis, because it exists. No one can dispute the purchase and start of the new six linear accelerators. No one can dispute the application of electronic recipes and implementation of an integrated health information system. No one can dispute the construction of a modern X-knife centre in Serbia's Clinical Centre. No one can challenge free preventive checks for the citizens. More than 170,000 citizens have been reviewed for nine days of action and this type of review will continue in the future. In order to remind some of our MPs, which are obviously not addressed, with the results of the work of the Ministry of Health, whose head you are at, I will have mentioned the results of the work of the Ministry that you are in charge of. I wanted to say that I've been working in the health system for a long time and many ministers have changed. What do I remember from the ministerial period of some of them? Lack of basic means to work. For example, a lack of sterile gloves, so we put this paper out of sterile gloves as a reviewer, instead of compressions; a lack of end, kedguda, vacill; a lack of anaesthetic means, gel for ultrasound examination of pregnant women and gynaecological patients, and more extensive means to work without even talking, but as our old people say – either way, it didn't happen again. As for the health ministry's results since 2015, I will start with that year, in 2015 the first gamma knife operation was carried out in Serbia at the National Gamma Centre in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia has introduced a primary health care facility for patients suffering from diabetes, etc. Diabetes counselling. A pilot project for diabetes has been launched in two homes of health in Chačka and Belgrade at the Sava Veneto, and under the auspices of the Republic Expert Commission for Diabetes and the Ministry of Health with the primary objective of insight into diabetes control in a representative sample of patients with type two diabetes already on oral therapy. In 2015, the Presevo House of Health began its work. Breeding was provided by the EU Mission to Serbia, and the Ministry of Health has done the expansion of the Staff Plan and has enabled the launch of competitions for the employment of two gynecologists and 10 midwives and nurses. A counseling centre for diabetes is open in the House of Health Nis, in my home health institution, which was formed on a proposal from the Minister of Health and the Republic Expert Commission for Prevention and Control of Diabetes. The company "Nectar" donated 26 million dinars to the Gynaecological and Accumulatory Clinic "The People's Front" for the restoration and adaptation of part of the second floor of the clinic, in order to pass the Department of Out-of-body Insemination. In 2015, the state allocated 334 million to the treatment of rare diseases. In 2015, the royal hospital released a magnetic resonance donated to the royal hospital by a donor from Canada. For a year's work in 2015, the Fund for the Treatment of Children of Rare Diseases, 23 patients were sent abroad for treatment and around 60 million dinars and 140,000 euros were spent. The health home in Svilinc was provided with assistance from Japan through medical devices, such as X-ray, ultrasound, ECG, CTG, an inhaler worth 71,750 euros. The S.H.I.E.L.D. Health House is richer for a mobile ambulance donated to them by the UN population fund, and it is a mobile hospital for gynecological and obstetric practices, i.e. a vehicle that is necessary in emergency cases. In addition, a mobile ultrasound device for gynaecological diagnostics, a medical table for gynaecological examinations and a mobile ECG was donated. At the Clinical Centre in 2015 in Nis, the new clinical centre was first performed the mechanical support of the left heart chamber. I will talk about the results of your work and the work of the Ministry of Health, which you are headed for 2016, 2017 and 2018 according to the following proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42173	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet Radeto, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42174	When a MP who is a representative of the government says MPs who are against the bill don't actually know what the ministry is doing. No, the situation is completely opposite. When you're in power when you go somewhere, then everyone praises you for staying here, for being tucked in, and when you're an opposition, then you have all the information possible, especially when you're an SRS. You know who everyone, or you don't know who, but you know what kind of data we get. So let go of that story so you know everything. I don't know what her colleague wanted when she said she was going to look retrogradely at the work of Minister Loncar, but I thought she wanted something retroactive to talk about the state of health. So then, among other things, she mentioned that in the 1990s she didn't have sterile gloves as a doctor and I don't know what else she was missing. Yeah, that was the time we were under sanctions. That was the time of the bombing and the answer why she didn't have gloves on her co-worker then could give Tony Blair, an advisor to the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42175	My colleague, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42176	In my presentation, I did not mention at all one moment in the 1990s, but I said that for 30 years I worked in health and that for this time period many ministers changed and that I remember time at the time of the ministry of some of them, when we had no means to work, and I wanted, of course, to highlight the facts relating to the work of the Ministry of Health from 2015 to today. I don't see anything wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42177	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42178	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, we have before us an extremely important law, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues, an area that offers great treatment opportunities and therefore needs to be defined in a clear and precise way by a new law with a basic goal of increasing the availability of health care to each patient and on the other hand to increase citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, the importance of giving and donation. In order for that consciousness to be higher, of course, there is also a need for greater trust between citizens and health institutions. Trust is built, among other things, by quality laws and by quality law enforcement. It's natural for people to suspect, but what's a much bigger problem is that recently a large number of public figures and politicians who do a negative campaign towards health care in Serbia have created different conspiracy theories, different paranoias, and most often it's about charlatans and ignorants who have never passed a medical school, let alone know anything about medicine. So we have a situation where people who have vaccinated their children now tell citizens that they should not do so and fight vaccinations, and accuse the state of Serbia of not fighting for vaccination to protect its nation's health, but to earn something somewhere. Then when we have a 21st century situation where a child dies of morbils, they're nowhere to be found. In the past few days, we have really been able to hear a lot of things during the National Assembly session, even though someone is going to kidnap Serbian citizens, kill them, sell their organs, and I don't know what not. Among other things, I heard one statement from my colleague, Bosko Obradovic, who said, otherwise it is a great expert who understands everything from the economy, the economy, the economy, the judiciary, the health care, a great expert who has been enrolled in his work book for six years in the city library, that Serbian citizens today do not trust health institutions because someone 40 lilies 50 years ago stole a baby. He didn't have enough of that either, but he directly accused us and said, "You stole the baby." It's just amazing to me that it's possible for someone to use such words to collect some political points. He also said that young people leave Serbia because only members of the SNS can get a job. Dear Ministers, at your health home in Cačka, the daughter-in-law of Bosko Obradovic, his brother-in-law, is employed. She was employed in 2014, and in 2017 she received a specialization. So, not a member of the SNS, but a member of Bosko Obradovic's family, and in that case, you see what big lies are and the question arises if someone is capable of agreeing on such an easy, confidential question, how can we trust him with anything else? There are also some positive examples. First of all, I think of fellow MPs from the profession, doctors who have devoted their whole lives to learning, dedicated to helping citizens, and I also think of colleagues from the ruling majority, but also of some colleagues from the opposition who have in a very correct way defended not only health institutions in which they work, but primarily defended the profession and in one responsible way talked about a very important topic. What I'm trying to say, dear Minister, for my own sake, and I'm sure on behalf of the city's administration of the city of Chačka is that in the past two, three years we've had a truly remarkable co-operation and we've made great shifts. We opened an angiosala, we renovated the maternity home, we had over a million euros in investment. We've got new projects ahead of us. A large number of new jobs for both nurses and doctors. A large number of new specializations. By the end of the year, new jobs will be approved for doctors, which is particularly important to us because we promised the citizens of Cačka that in the coming period we would hire all unemployed doctors from the Employment Service records, whether they are members of a party or not. There's a big job waiting for us and I want to thank you for that very high-quality cooperation we've had. Once again in the end, I want to say that without thinking, I will unequivocally support this very important and good law. Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42179	The mention of the president of the parliamentary group. As deputy president of the parliamentary group, you have a basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been sitting here since this morning listening to things that have nothing to do with the law, but free interpretation of MPs never bothered me. It bothers me when people who aren't in the O.R. are called... The SNS are getting it. Free, gentlemen, there's more of you than I am, I can handle it, I can handle it. So if Bosko Obradovic, president and head of my parliamentary group are not there, and the esteemed colleague who spoke before me is from the same town, I can understand that their city conflicts are at stake. I can ask a question, I don't know, and I don't doubt it, and even if it's not so bad, if Mr. Bosko Obradovic's daughter-in-law got specialization, it's going to be that she's finished medical school and I think it's in the interest of everyone in this country that we have more professional personnel. That bothers someone. But, you see, a colleague who spoke before me said, “We will hire all doctors. ” So it's gonna be you again. The right line would be – we will create conditions for all doctors, regardless of political belongings, to be employed. That's what they'd hear from me, that's what we hear from the other side, so maybe that's why these conflicts are coming out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42181	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42182	I don't think there's any reason to run a place like this. If it hasn't been proven so far who gets and how to hire in health care, then really. I have to remind you first of one thing, that we found a system where there was no competition at all. People were hired by getting a contract and they just showed up at work and presented as being new workers, let alone passing, that they volunteered, that they saw, that someone had met them, or anything. And now, I hear from time to time, not all the time, but sometimes I hear it as something - some party employment, but that's so rare, and I haven't heard a single example anywhere that someone hired a party. So you absolutely know how to hire, to go to the competition, to hire the best. Excuse me, please, why someone before us didn't hire at least five of the best students, or doctors who ended up with the best score, and they were all full of mouths – we need to take care of those kids, that's our future, they deserve it, etc. They were all full of mouths, and no one ever hired one like that. Never anyone. And not that they were hired by this state, but she gave them a job, gave them specialization and gave them doctoral studies, all for free. So the state pays them all. Excuse me. How much is the difference between that no-competition job, no-nothing, falling from the sky, falling from tariffs, we know how it was charged, whether it was a party member, not a party member, and the rest, and now you have one transparent procedure – there is a commission, the best candidates are considered and working on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42183	Thank you, Minister. A colleague of Parezenović, you have a basis for replication, but a colleague of Atlagic ordered the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42184	Your Honor, Vice President, I'm calling for article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly, because the previous speaker insulted all the MPs, the ones who are now in the hall, because he said it is not fair to speak of messengers who are not in the hall. I remind him, and he should know, that today he also came to the coffee shop an hour and a half ago today, to wonder why there is no Boško Obradovic and MPs on the other side daily, to look at the card and worse statistics so he will see how many of them are gone. Has he not asked himself, as a Messenger of the people, why has Sacha Radulovic been gone for months, and came the day before? Why hasn't there been a Nenad Chank called "Gyco" for months? Why is there no Cedomir Jovanovic, called the sniffer, for months? Sasa Radulovic, the bankruptcy king? And don't let me count on it. Gentlemen, if you have programs and ideas, we have to confront them here, you have to come here, not get up at 12 o'clock, come here for coffee at four o'clock in the afternoon, criticize us here, and they don't read most of it here, you'll agree, since you're medical professions, the law, and then it's everyone's fault. An MP needs to be dealt with all the time. That's what you know, both you and me and anyone else, if we're reading materials and getting ready. It's the hardest thing to do. That's what this is all about, working and not working. Serbia will never again come into a period of the former system, when nothing was done, I openly say, but by robbing privatisation it destroyed the state and the nation. Serbian citizens recognized it and sent it into political past, not to say the place of political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42185	Comrade Vesovic, it is impossible to get a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before you are entitled to the replica, a colleague of Parezanovic, and I, according to the Rules of Procedure, must first give my answer to Professor Atlagic. Professor Atlagic, I don't think I, as chairman, have hurt the said member of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, it is impossible for me to predict what the MPs will talk about. It's up to me to let them talk. On the other hand, it is impossible for me to record the presence and to allow the presence of all MPs, it is the responsibility of MPs, above all, to both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, and I would really like to arrange it together with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It's up to me to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you, Professor Atlagic. Right on line, MP Marko Parezanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42186	Dear Chairman, I really don't think it's my fault if some MPs don't come to their jobs and their jobs, especially if it's about the MPs who are only there when they have to give a speech, that they attack in all order, whether or not these other people are present, and when they need to be answered, they go somewhere. I really don't think there's any city conflict between me and Mr. Bosko Obradovic. I'm the only one who told the truth. Is it normal for someone who's graduated medical school to get a job in health care and specialization? Of course it's normal and that's why Mr. Bosko Obradovic's daughter-in-law got the job and specialization. And what is not normal and is not correct is that the man whose member of the family's most employed during the SNS said no one in Serbia can get a job unless he is a member of the party, a member of the SNS. So it's a notorious lie and it's not even a colleague from Dverry can argue. It's an example of a populist policy, it's an example of an unculture, and it's my duty to point out, since I'm from the city of Cacko and I know some circumstances. I don't think I've said anything wrong, and if I've offended anyone, I've only said something that's notorous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42187	Thanks, buddy. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Vera Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42188	Dear Chairman, Minister Loncar and his associates, fellow MPs, cannot look back on all the discussions that are going on these days, which, I say, are also referred to this law which I think is the right solution at the moment when we are not only moving towards the EU, but for the benefit of Serbian citizens at all. I must say, in order not to repeat myself, my colleagues have said a lot of good things about what has been done in this previous period, I only ask my colleagues across the street to return to the period of 2012 and to make comparable data with today's health situation. Well, then let them say if something was done and how much was done and how much was the Serbian government, headed by President Alexander Vukic and Minister Loncar, because we are talking about these laws, did it in the previous period. Now I'm going to move on to my amendment and say that within this ninth extraordinary session there's also a law on human cells and tissues. This law is important for the quality of life and health of Serbian citizens, i.e. those citizens who can only be helped with a transplant. Transplanting or transplanting is a replacement of a non-functional organ through surgical intervention. These days, the VMA Hematology Clinic has done a hundred stem cell transplants of the bone marrow, so-called allogeneic transplants taken from donors that are not related to patients. This kind, in this institution, has been working since January 2013, from the moment Serbia became a member of the International Trade Register. Allogeneous transplantation means a procedure whereby the bone marrow of a patient who has had malignancies, changes in healthy stem cells, taken from another person, most often by relatives, such as siblings, or a related person, who is not related. Such a transplant is often the only treatment option, since a suitable donor in the family has only every third patient. There are around 7,300 potential donors registered under our Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute. By this law and by the additional position of Article 3, all health institutions, not only the VMA, are being promoted, so I ask my colleagues to accept my proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42189	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42190	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers Loncar with his associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, in Serbia today more than 1,500 patients are waiting for a corneal transplant. When it comes to kidney transplants, it's waiting for about 3,500 patients. There are 200 patients waiting for a liver transplant, and about 30 patients are waiting for a new heart. It is estimated that 30 people die annually because of the lack of organs in Serbia. Nor in the EU, whose regulations we seek, whose regulation we seek, is the most excellent situation in all Member States. There are about 30,000 people waiting in the EU for organs, and every day, according to statistics, 12 people die in the EU. We inherited a catastrophic condition in all our health institutions. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our prime minister, but also by our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, has indeed made huge efforts to build health institutions such as the Niš Clinical Centre, but also those of health and medical homes. With Mr. Loncar, I had the opportunity to open up a modern, functional, modern health home on Swan Hill, in the municipality of Rakovica after 40 years of false promises, failed expectations, last year. This is not just a lonely case within the city of Belgrade, it is indeed much done at the reconstruction of institutions and health institutions, such as hospitals in Kumodraz, the municipality of Vozdovac and many others, I do not have enough time to list everything that has been done well in Belgrade. Also, kidney transplants, we as a state have a really good tradition of transplants. The first kidney transplant was done more than 30 years ago in Serbia. I'll remind you, this was done by a group of young doctors at the Urological Clinic, who formed a kidney transplant center. Around 65,000 organ transplants are performed annually in the world. Last year, in our country, in 2017, 48 kidney transplants were performed in Serbia, with only 15 cadaveric, i.e. dead donors. 17 livers were transplanted and five patients had a new heart. It's data that says we have to work more when it comes to organ transplants, human cells and tissues. Statistical data suggests that Serbia has less than one donor per million per year. EU data, or EU member states, say Croatia has 12, that Germany has between 15 and 20, that Austria has between 20 and 25, and that Spain actually has the world's best results when it comes to organ collection and that it has as many as 35 donors per million inhabitants, and that it is waiting for organ transplants in Spain for either a few weeks or just a few months. By adopting new laws, the laws we are discussing today and the law on organ transplants and laws on human cells and tissues, Serbia is approaching developed countries of the world, developed EU countries. This is not only a mere copying of the directives contained in Chapter 28, which relate to consumer protection and health protection, but we really want to introduce a new quality, the new standards that we lacked in the country. By adopting new laws, first of all I mean these two laws, in a systematic way, an organ donation area will be done, the bad practice that existed in the old legal solutions will be resolved. Let me remind you, the old laws were passed in 2009 and we really need to change them. The new law on human cells and tissues will reduce waiting lists, increase, actually improve new legal proposals and the part relating to organ and cell and tissue donation, and bring us closer to the developed EU countries as Serbia has always sought and wanted to become. We as a country really work every day to improve the quality of health in our country. I'll remind you, on March 2, this year, at VMA, the Eye Bank was opened. The state of Serbia has invested 13 million dinars in the reconstruction and acquisition of equipment for the Eye Bank at VMA. This Eye Bank is not only the future, when it comes to tissues, bones, membranes that will be stored within this institution, so this is not only the future of VMA, this is also the future of Serbia's health care. Thirteen million dinars have been invested by the state of Serbia, costing only 15 transplants of our patients abroad. This good news that comes from our VMA is not the only news, we are indeed in all five health institutions for stem cell transplants every day recording really good results, with our well-trained staff both at the Institute for Mother and Child in Belgrade and at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and the Institute for Oncology of Vojvodina. Also, good results are recorded when it comes to tissue transplants in two state clinics, at the ophthalmology clinic, the Institute of orthopaedic and surgical diseases Banjica, but also in three private clinics, such as Milos Special Hospital, Zenit Hospital and Opticus Special Hospital. By raising the quality and capacity of our health institutions in Serbia, every day the state of Serbia through excellent results shows that it is ready to continue investing in these health institutions, we are approaching European models, we are adopting European standards, we are applying all those positive examples of good practice when it comes to providing health care to citizens in Europe. We also apply all these experiences to our patients. I want to say that the good policy of President Aleksandar Vucic shows the results, and on June 8, this year, the job has found 100 of the best medical graduates, 100 of the best graduates, 100 of the best medical students in Serbia, has been given the opportunity from the Serbian state to sign the contract, to continue their training, to get a job. These are positive examples, and so every responsible policy, every responsible state must behave if it wants to protect its well-trained whenever and if it wants to plan and think about the future. In the end I want to say the following, sometimes, Minister, you know better than I do, I'm a politician, you're a doctor, sometimes one day, one hour, one minute is enough to save one human life. If we save only one human life, we will save the entire society. I'm really sorry these laws didn't come up on the agenda earlier because the old legal solutions were not accurate enough. The Serbian Progressive Party showed in 2015 by signing at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to support organ transplants. All MPs in the previous SNS meeting, the vast majority, signed a donor card. The SNS also referred to other coalition partners and opposition to some kind of donor challenge. Then, I'll remind you, there was another challenge, an icy challenge, where they poured cold water, icy water, that's how they took pictures and made selfies out of it. We have shown that we are taking care of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the patients living in this country. Serbia is yesterday, in the media I learned information, declared a world leader for the second year in a row when it comes to creating new jobs and through projects of foreign direct investment. This is based on the IBM Global Location Report, which was published for 2017. Serbia is sixth in the European Union and 15th in the world. I want Serbia and I know that Serbia really has potentials, and when it comes to our Banjska spas, and when it comes to well-educated personnel, scientific and research workers, I am sure that we can and will and want to move borders every day, move barriers and when it comes to the health of our citizens and when it comes to overall health care in Serbia. I ask you every day to tear down those stereotypes and prejudices that exist in both our citizens and whom our patients and perhaps some health workers have and that we have those positive campaigns that will lead to our expansion of awareness when it comes to organ donations, tissues and cells in our country. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42191	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42192	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 161(1). Regulations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, under the draft laws on human cells and tissues submitted by the Government, I submit an amendment to Article 1 of the Law, which adds Article 3 which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of Serbia with a special reference to improving the health system". The Law on Human Cells and Tissues lays down the conditions necessary to promote the quality and safety of human cells and tissues in order to apply in the human population. The provisions of this law also apply to the stem cells of haematopoiesis from peripheral blood, cord blood and bone marrow, but the provisions of this law do not apply to reproductive cells and tissues of embryos and foetuses, blood and blood components, as well as to cells and tissues used as analogue transplants within the same medical procedure. The law also defines institutions that can be banks of human cells and tissues. The cell is a basic unit of construction and functions of all living things, except the virus, and a set of cells similar to or the same look of embryonic origin and functions is called tissue. In nature there are numerous organisms that are built only from one cell, and they are so called. single cell organisms, consisting of bacteria, animals, some algae and mushrooms, and on the other hand there are multi-cell organisms that can have millions of cells. In addition, it is also necessary to define a registry of progenitors of peripheral blood haematopoiesis cells, umbilical cord blood and bone marrow to enable the finding of non-compromising donors, thereby providing the necessary cells for transplantation. That is why a traceability information system must also be established in this area, with the adoption of a transplant programme that must be unique throughout Serbia's territory. It will clearly define the procedures and procedures for transplantation, which will also introduce order in this area of health. Every citizen has the unequivocal right to decide for himself and to make written consent to the application of his organs and tissues through transplants for human purposes or to leave a oral or written ban on the use of them. In addition, his family, if he has not made a statement before the flight outcome, can act according to his own opinion. It can give safety to use his organs and tissues. Thus, conditions are being created for promoting giving and raising the awareness of Serbian citizens of the importance of giving with respect to the principles of traceability for the purpose of treatment. This will improve the quality of overall health care provided in accordance with European Union regulations in this area of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42193	Thank you, Dr. Granny. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42194	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, and especially dear citizens of Serbia, the law has the benefit of all of us and our society in general. The progress of our society is seen in the adoption of modern laws, on which the Government is working, because only by passing such laws that follow the changes that occur in society means the desire to live better and more advanced. The government recognised the reason for the adoption of the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues and the need for human and tissue areas to be based on the highest standards of modern science and practice, given that the area of medicine that develops intensively and offers a great opportunity for treatment, as well as for healthcare institutions doing these jobs to provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. It has been recognised that the area of human cells and tissues that has so far been regulated by the Law on cell and tissue transplants has established the need to improve and specify the conditions, organisations and jobs in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as the supervision of authorised jobs. The new laws will regulate the area of human cell and tissue transplantation and the conditions under which such work will be carried out, consisting of donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells from a living or deceased person to humans, so that by preciseing these conditions in this area, health institutions can apply for human cell and tissue activities that may be human tissue banks, including all the conditions they have to fulfil in order to obtain a permit. The draft law in this area will contribute faster to the achievement of healthcare in the area of improving international co-operation, the establishment of a single information system in the area of maintenance of the traceability system. The law will simplify the process of granting consent to the application of human tissues by avoiding unnecessary financial costs of keeping the register, providing for the possibility for every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia to prohibit in writing or oral form the donation of their tissues, as well as the possibility for family members to do so at the time of death, unless the deceased person has made a statement about it, and the minors are required to need legal representations or guardians. Since the importance of this law is so great for all our citizens, I call on my fellow MPs to support this law in the voting day, as well as the bill adopted by the Ministry of Health. I point out that my amendment towards this law is developing towards Serbia's development and improving medical protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42195	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42196	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, there are topics that I don't think we should share at all when it comes to the adoption of laws by either party or professionally, because the disease doesn't choose people, by party or by professional, or by class, but it's simply a picture and an opportunity of a society that we are able to respond as a state to challenges, especially when it comes to the demographic image of Serbia. You don't need to be a doctor to see that our demographic picture of Serbia isn't good. He dies more than he is born and is exactly the size of that political party and coalition, when he heads a country, to understand how to respond to such problems in society. Since 2014, when SNS and Mr. Vucic took responsibility for state-leading, the first thing that had to be done was to implement economic reforms so that you would have the conditions to simply implement the mechanisms by which you would change the demographic image, i.e. lead to conditions for Serbian citizens to create families, to have more children born, but on the other hand, to find systemic solutions by which Serbian citizens, who really face the most difficult diseases, are able to simply create conditions to heal here in Serbia and to really overcome all the difficult moments in their lives together with their families. I think Minister Loncar responded to this challenge in Serbia in the best possible way. At the moment he took over the management of the Ministry of Health, specializations were firstly abolished, by 2012 on average 550 specializations per year, at the moment it was taken over by the state, and those who wanted to do so had to pay out of their pocket. At that point, Serbia had 3,000 unemployed doctors. Today we are struggling to keep every doctor in Serbia and we are struggling with the annual specializations of the competition, a state of 983 specialists only for the past year, which means that at this point you have about 4,000 specialists, as I understand it, who have practically not implemented the complete specialization. This means that this process is very long, slow, but it is for us the alarm that this human resource, when we talk about doctors, medical staff, we have to protect, because there are developed countries in Europe that have simply made strategies that will accept and assimilate 30,000 doctors precisely because they are old nations like Serbia and because they are economically more capable of accepting doctors and putting into service their health system because they pay five times the salary. And that's the problem not only of the Western Balkan countries, it's a problem and developed European states, that we simply have our own medical staff, so when we talk about medical staff, it means nurses and medical staff, we also have to be jealous and to create conditions like the state that they work and that they can live in an adequate way for their work. What I wanted to say was that I put an accent on medical institutions by my amendment precisely because the increase in medical institutions according to the health ministry's performance results today in 2018 simply cannot be measured with what happened by 2012. When you see that in this area today, when it comes to transplants, first of all, we have 15 donors per million, and the average in developed countries is as much as 50 per million people, then you can see that we are practically at the beginning of this medical policy in the area of transplantation, but I have to tell you that what is alarming data, that is to say for the past year by some doctors who have been making statements, for example. 700 people who are waiting for a kidney transplant, and 6,000 patients go into dialysis regularly. This is one of the major indicators that the state is really thinking extremely responsible about how it will solve these problems, that our people should reduce this waiting list, but if you look at the cost of patients from Serbia's budget, then you'll see that, for example, dialysis, one patient costs the country 25,000 euros a year. And if you have a stable patient where the transplant was performed, it costs the state 5,000 euros a year. So five times the costs are higher if you don't solve problems, like those who ran the country by 2012, five times as much you spent on treating one patient, and thus you show that in the most responsible way, the budget that you have for the treatment of Serbian citizens will give the possibility that five times as many citizens will be able to really treat and solve their health problems adequately. When you see the results of these five years as state and Ministry of Health, then statistics show that over eight billion dinars a year from the budget are given for reconstruction, the adaptation of medical institutions, that we have an open new clinical center, that we have results that say that the item in the budget that we all talk about is the point 25. attitude 3. exactly the Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases, today even sets out four and a half billion dinars for treating these diseases, of which is the highest percentage of children. This is precisely what it says about the responsibility of the Serbian government and the health ministry to simply increase the fund and that it has somehow become routine and systemically solved such problems as have plagued the Republic of Serbia. What we are facing is a medical chamber, and as you can see for the first time, the Ministry of Health and the minister of the best 100 students from all medical schools in Serbia in a certain way took them into protection by means of law from the university, practically employed them in medical institutions, and thus sent a big message, that we must think about our future in an extremely responsible way and send a message to all Serbian citizens, that the treatment of Serbian citizens is in the hands of the state, because it is created by an environment that has someone to worry about us when we're old. The human capital of over 22,000 doctors and over 50,000 medical staff is something that we really need to worry about in the most responsible way. I think this law that we have in the Assembly today actually opens up a new health modernisation site in Serbia. What we had the opportunity to hear from our fellow doctors, which is that humanity and nobility are one of the qualities that I think have been completely forgotten by 2012 because many political factors have dealt with themselves and have not dealt with the interests of Serbian citizens. You've created hope, Mr. Minister. You've created hope for the sick and safety of their families, that the state takes care of them and the moment when families are unable, simply to help their loved ones when they're sick. I think you've proven yourself serious and responsible and you're also the minister, that you recognize all those problems in society and therefore, when a cyber knife was obtained, and when a gamma knife was obtained, and when new investment was opened in terms of the reconstruction of health institutions, and when twice as much, you opened up the possibility of specialization of doctors, and when you simply opened up the possibility for everyone in this society to tell everyone what they think about their future when it's a health field, meaning, both from the patient's point of view and from the medical staff's point of view. I think you really made it possible for Serbia to take new steps in its development, because that state that does not care about its citizens, in a completely systematic way, through certain systemic legal solutions, has no way of thinking about how it will develop. So thank you for having a chance today to even talk about laws like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42197	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42198	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues sets out the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application. It also establishes control over the implementation of this law and the conduct of certain public administration tasks in the area of human cells and tissues. The bill seeks to regulate human cell and tissue areas in humans on the highest standards of medical science. This is an area of medicine that is constantly developing and giving enormous treatment opportunities, but also allows healthcare institutions that do this job to have better working conditions in line with modern achievements. The bill clearly defines which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues, including all the conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit, because in the end this law will contribute to the progress of the entire society and I call on my distinguished fellow Members of Parliament to support this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42199	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42200	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, it is certainly the health ministry's task to permanently improve the health care of Serbian citizens. However, even local self-government can play a significant role in co-operation with the Ministry of Health, because they know best what problems they have in their local self-government. A good example from practice is the local government of Sokobanja, where I come from, since in 2017 it singled out the budget of the municipality of 12 million dinars for health care. Of these, four million dinars were allocated for the purchase of a new sanity vehicle, and 2.5 million dinars for additional supplies of drugs and ampoules. I have to say that in 2016, when the SNS came to power in this local self-government, there was a question of the days when the health care home would be blocked, because it also worked as a health care facility that worked with the loss. The yellow company was not interested in the primary protection of Sokobanje citizens, as well as tourists in Sokobanja, who are over 100,000 a year, will be treated and protected. So in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, we found an adequate solution, a model, and then we attached the pharmacy to another pharmacy, thus putting the health home to healthy legs and continued to care for the health of our citizens, especially for the health of tourists who have been getting more and more in Sokobanja lately. In addition to this, we have singled out 2.5 million dinars from local self-government for extra measure, since in the season in Sokobanja, the number of tourists triples in relation to the number of residents there, so we have between 15,000 and 30,000 guests in the season in one day more than the average number of inhabitants. These funds are allocated for funding, i.e. for the earnings of two doctors and three nurses, which will certainly improve health services during the tourist season. We also opened a new village infirmary, for whose equipment IT computers and other IT equipment was financed from local self-government. This is just the beginning of a whole new policy in the local self-government of Sokobanja, which refers to health care, because the Sokobanja in addition to this primary health care it has, i.e. at home of health, also owns the Republic Center and owns a special hospital, which I will later talk about according to the following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42201	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Ivana Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP named Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42202	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues in order to further define this member, but also put a special accent on a segment relating to the improvement of medical services. Given that this area is developing very quickly and intensively, it is very important to provide medical institutions with the best possible conditions to follow this development in step and that will be in line with the achievements in this area. A large number of patients in Serbia waiting for a transplant, for which this is the only hope of healing, is the only salvation. As we have only six donors per million inhabitants in Serbia, it is clear that we are facing both organ shortages and long healing lists. In addition to fofming the legal framework, which we are working on today through discussion in particular, it is very important to provide good conditions in health institutions, but also to carry out adequate promotion of transplants. It is very important that we talk about the ultimate human and noble act, and that we highlight it to a great extent. Although it is an extremely sensitive subject and sensitive field, it is important to point out those essential things, which is now an open register of European donors that will provide information about the sick people who expect organs, but also about the available organs and that patients will be more likely to be cured. That is why it is important to raise the awareness of our citizens. The unique information system will allow monitoring and introduction of data available to the organs and what potential patients are waiting for on organs, but also monitoring organ flow from the moment of donation to the moment of transplantation. It is clear that it will be necessary to invest significant resources in the equipment of the facilities and in the Biomedicine Administration and in the organisation of teams and in the very cooperation of our Agency for Transplantation with other administrations. This is all in the interest of cutting the waiting list and in terms of healing as many patients as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42203	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42204	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, every segment of social life that the previous government tried to arrange, has been wrongly arranged by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, the most illustrating example is precisely the area of health care. In fact, although the government of the Republic of Serbia has established a health care policy since 2002, none of the objectives declared has been realised in the previous period. The reasons for such a produced negative factual state are numerous, but it is primarily the result of non-planned, improvised development, inter-party personnel combinations with huge corruption embedded in the health care system and unfortunately became a devastating factor in the regulation of relations in it. Such a devastating policy has created an almost insurmountable gap between health workers and citizens, and medical workers have done without reason a pillar of shame as corrupt officials, although the vast majority of them live modestly from their earnings and do not participate in any corruption. Therefore, restoring dignity to the medical profession and establishing new trust and mutual respect for healthcare professionals and citizens is an important objective of the new policy of the current government. In order to overcome this situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has identified as the main objective of the new health policy the preservation of the health and quality of life of the Serbian population and the socio-economic sustainability of the health care system. This can be achieved by ensuring solidarity and equality between healthy and sick, poor and rich, old and young, as well as through real gender equality with a special emphasis on special sensitive categories of population, respect for the rights and reference of citizens to their own health. The healthcare system should ensure the physical, geographical and economically accessible and accessible health care, integrated through the vertical connection of the primary, secondary, tertiary level and horizontal connection in the system compared to local communities, quality health care through an apartment improving the quality of protection and the rights of users to select doctors and informing with the right to choose patients. Although huge problems have been inherited, and health care allocations are insufficient, and with such distinctions the current Government of the Republic of Serbia is on track to better regulate the health system, making it more functional, which will specify the obligations of all institutions and individuals in it. In this respect, concrete measures are already being taken, such as the introduction of a modern information system, such as an electronic recipe, an electronic manual and other services based on the use of modern communication technologies. That is the direction of the proposed law, which is reason enough for the SNS parliamentary group to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42205	Thank you, colleague Veljkovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42206	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, our blood part-of-life. Indeed, nothing more human or superior in a man’s life can be more than the ability to give any good, especially what life means to someone. Helping the sick to heal in any way makes every human person happier and more satisfied and the patients even more. In the case of treatment with human cells, tissues and organs, it's much better to be a donor than a potential recipient. In the life of a human one, there is a 27-fold greater chance that we will receive an organ than donate. This bill offers an assumption of more effective alocation and an increase in social well-being by accepting a model of assumed consent. The Law on Human Cells and Tissues is based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that the area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great treatment opportunities, as well as that healthcare institutions doing these jobs provide better conditions for their implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. In order to raise the quality of services to a higher level than previously, I am on behalf of patients and all citizens of Podrinj, Loznica, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, LJubovije, and the environment, thanks to the Ministry of Health for understanding and promise to obtain the necessary equipment for the diagnosis of the most difficult pathological conditions, which is the scanner. We need the apparatus, because the needs for this kind of examination are increasing, unfortunately, every day. If I show you information that only on the transport of patients to other institutions to CT scans at the annual level the password hospital spends so much money that it could buy a machine of more modest characteristics, then the logical justification of the purchase is the same. The Radiological Service of the General Hospital in Loznica has an excellent tub, but we lack equipment. Thank you, Minister of Support and Understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42207	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42208	As far as the CT scan is concerned, he's in realisation, I think before the end of the year it's going to be in the final phase. The second thing, I think the hospital in Loznica is pretty invested, but it's going to keep investing, so that's something that's definitely going to go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42209	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Radčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42210	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Dear fellow Members and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. A bill with the desire to further specify the law and point out the need for health care to improve. It's been a long time since health care has invested almost nothing. The buildings are downhill, worn-out equipment, long overrun. To my great satisfaction, I have to commend the minister and his associates, they've seen the problem and they're going to solve it and they're doing it quite successfully. I can explain that on the Alexine case. The General Hospital in Aleksinc was given a new maternity home back in 1976. It took 43 years for the maternity ward to be fully functional again. During the period from 1976 until today, it was almost impossible to invest in profit and equipment at all. Any more serious intervention was not done in Alexinco, but the patients were transported to Nis and not because we didn't have professional personnel in Aleksinec, on the contrary, we have extraordinary doctors, but because they didn't have basic working conditions. Now that about 55 million dinars have been invested, I can say that much more comfortable birth and recovery conditions have been created, which has not been the case so far. Each room has its own bathroom, new appliances have been purchased and final maternity services in Aleksinc have all the conditions for normal delivery and doctors have normal working conditions. In this way, conditions in our maternity homes have drawn close to the standards that have developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42211	Thank you, colleague Radčević. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42212	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable Minister Loncar, the laws you have presented are vital because by applying them in medical practice, our healthcare professionals save the lives of our citizens. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues lays down the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human application. This law will be regulated on the highest standards of medical science and practice, given that it is an area of medicine that has been intensively developed and offers better, great treatment opportunities, and that healthcare institutions doing these jobs provide better conditions for its implementation, in line with modern achievements in this area. Clear definition and precision of the conditions in this area in terms of doing business, space, equipment and staff would remain a long-standing bad practice for us. We heard from our colleague Bojanić his personal experience that life means, but by passing this new law, there will be no more such. I would like to point out and point out that Serbia has joined the third European Health Programme 2014. In 2020, with Norway, Iceland and EU Member States, it provided access to the 446m-euro fund. It is free help with the participation of 40% applicants compared to project value. Serbia is the first non-EU country and the first country in the region to join the programme. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has awarded employment contracts for several of the 100 best graduates of the Medical Faculty in Serbia and announced that every six months the state will seek out the new 50 best graduates, enabling them to specialize in doctoral studies, which is the best way to invest in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42213	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here's my colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42214	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the respected ministers with their associates, when we talk about the recovery of healthcare, it is also inevitable to talk about the conditions in which healthcare is provided. Thanks to the ministry of health and Minister Loncaru, the General Hospital in Bor will soon be reconstructed. As in most of the facilities of this purpose in Serbia, it has not been invested in this hospital for decades back, so patients with the right sometimes have been unfavourable, but as everything in Serbia slowly recovers, the results of good economic policy are visible in health institutions. The Bor Municipality will design a project for reconstruction of the General Hospital in Bor, and this reconstruction involves the construction of 34 thousand square meters of this health facility. The project will compete at the Office for Public Investments of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, a sanitary inspection will also take part in the design of this project in order to avoid any deficiencies in the design of the project and to meet all the regulatory requirements. All of what I have stated is in favour of the fact that the Serbian government is implementing responsible policy in all its segments, and this is particularly seen in the health care sector that was most debauched, given how much earlier it was, or how much earlier it was left to itself. All in all, one good news for the citizens of Bor, and I thank you for this occasion to Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42215	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42216	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Minister Loncar and his associates, respected citizens of Serbia. the reason for the adoption of the new Law on Human Cells and Tissues is reflected in the need for the application of human cells and tissues in humans to be based on the highest standards of medicine, science and practice. Since it is an area of medicine that intensively develops and offers great treatment opportunities, health institutions that perform jobs provide better conditions for its implementation, in line with modern achievements in this area. After several years of applying the applicable Law, which also covered the area of human cells and tissues, clear needs have been identified to improve and specify the conditions of organisations and businesses in the area of cells and tissues for human use, as well as the supervision of doing business in this area in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The applicable law did not specify the conditions under which jobs in the field of human cells and tissues were carried out, where they consist of donations, acquisitions, testing, processing, preservation, storage, distribution and application of human cells and tissues in live or dead people. One of the faults of the applicable law was that they were not clearly defined institutions that could be banks of human tissues, which did not result in their formation. With the adoption of a new Law on Human Cells and Tissues, it changes significantly, so as to define which health institutions can apply for conditions in this area and which conditions the human tissue banks should meet. This law, in my opinion, is a step in our medicine and I think, when it comes to living in full capacity, it will help many people who have a medical need. Mr. Lonchar, I congratulate you and your team, for you have brought hope into our health care and all the things we don't mention now, from cyber knives to a clinic center in Nis, to students who are the best graduates of their colleges to become doctors. I think you gave us hope and thank you very much for that. I call on my colleagues in voting day to support this law. Of course, if you have the strength and the time and my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42217	Thank you, colleague Tarbuk. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42218	Thank you, Chairman. Multiple positive effects are that will carry with them the results of the law that are before us, although we well know that blood means life, which is why we are developing awareness in people that it is necessary to give and willingly give blood, many are reluctant to respond to these calls, whether because they were not on the other side that they need them, whether they think that they will never be or think that their 450 milliliters of blood do not mean so much. But that's absolutely not true, and I have to tell you how the actions are repeated, so the world is increasingly developing and I commend those who really give their half liters of blood every time. I have to tell you that recently in the city of Zrenjanin, there was a campaign of voluntary blood donations, where we collected dozens of liters and I really feel proud and brave when I see that we help each other in this way. I feel safe and not only to strengthen the sense of belonging to the community, but we want to help each other. I guess what's only the situation when the giver gives the stranger a piece of his body, some tissue or cell, and that's just a boost, not just for the donor, but for the donor. We don't have a chance to store our organs and tissues from the beginning and, unfortunately, someone else needs it, so it's a heroic venture to help another person, of course, and a relative where there's an unwritten rule that implies it. One who is not guided by this level of problem, but only whether there is an air conditioning in the home of health, whether they have a new computer because of the file of one or what is with the maternity office, what about population policy, which is, of course, all important segments, but, respected ministers, you have to take care of all these parts, you have not a bit of an envious job and it's very difficult. Since we have touched population policies, just to point out that Zrenjanin has received 29.6 million grants, the municipality of my medium Banat 7.7 million, to implement projects from population policy for 2018, which further means that work with parenting will be brought into line with the positive development of motherhood. We intend to open the nursery and kindergarten by 11:00, which will work, since my citizens are working shifts, and on weekends. Thank you, Minister, for taking care of all this. Really, if we didn't have these laws, I don't know how we could help each other better. I therefore submit an amendment which, hopefully, will further support the development of health care in Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42219	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42220	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted is further defined by Article 1. It's a bill of law. Article 1 The bill stipulates that this law lays down the conditions for the achievement of quality and safety in the field of human cells and tissues for human use, the supervision of the implementation of this law and the conduct of certain tasks of state administration in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of jobs in the field of human cells and tissues. The main objective of this law is to establish a high level of security and security in the area of human cells and tissues. In order to establish a high level of security and security in this area, the bill is clear and unequivocal and, in accordance with EU directives, defined the role of health institutions in this area, preciseing the fundamental activity of the bank of human cells and tissues. Also, in order to ensure a high level of quality in this area, it is necessary to specify rules and standards that will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and ensure the same level of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are extremely important laws and the SNS will support them in a day of voting with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42221	Thank you. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Miloevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42222	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, the esteemed Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia, on a proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, have been amended to further define Article 1 of this law. As you know, in the work of this esteemed home in the past few years, we have managed to pass a number of reform laws that have improved conditions in various areas of social life. We have proved that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic think about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is visible to anyone who is realistic and well-intentioned. One of the most important segments of life, what is the pillar of every modern state, is health care and health sector in which investment and development is essential to invest funds. I believe that this law is closer to determining matter, more like regulating the concepts of the mentioned area, making clearer provisions on conditions and achieving quality and security on donors and recipients of human cells and tissues for application in medicine, supervision of law enforcement and other important factors. We have done much in the local self-government of the municipality of Arangelovac in the last few years to improve and improve the conditions in our health institutions. Thanks to the excellent co-operation we have with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent state institutions, but local businessmen, we have managed to produce significant results in the development of services and medical care services, not only in Arangelovac, but also beyond, because people, in part and from other neighbouring municipalities, also use the services of General Hospital in Arangelovac. We've invested millions of dollars, and we're expecting the realisation of bigger projects, hopefully, and during the current year. Given the time allowed to address the debate according to the amendments, I will clarify and specify what is done and what are the results of the work to improve health conditions in Arangelovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42223	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42224	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law aimed at improving the health care system and improving health institutions. What we must recognise in the current Republic Government, as well as the one before it, as one of the most important tasks in its work, if not most importantly, has been placed as an improvement in the health situation with the greatest investment in Serbian health in the last 70 years. It is essential that such a policy of the Republic government is followed by the largest number of local self-governments. I come from Temerin municipality, where a local health home with about 150 employees provides primary health care for about 30,000 inhabitants, so it is a relatively small home of health compared to other homes, but it is enough to cover all needs of the population, since it is essentially available to all the necessary services – gynecology, internal service, pediatrics, pulmology, radiology, general medicine, dentistry, emergency medical services, as well as hospitals in all local communities. In the last four years, as far as the Temerin municipality in the government of the coalition has led the SNS, whose equal member and Socialist Movement, local self-government has allocated significant resources to improve the functioning of the health care system in the municipality. First of all, by pawning the President of Temerin Municipality, Mr. Djura Žiga, in ongoing repairs and maintenance, about six million dinars were invested, in machines and equipment of nine million dinars, and in buildings and construction facilities, along with the province's capital investment administration, the municipality invested nearly 20 million dinars, most of which went to the reconstruction of the infirmary in Backo Jarko, which has not been restored since it was built, so close to 60 years. I must also point out that Temerin's health home for a gift from the province's government received a fully equipped sanity vehicle, so today the equipment of this home of health is at an enviable level. Of course, the current municipal authority is not satisfied with these results, but daily strives to improve the health status of Temerin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42225	Thank you, Comrade Bagby. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Ivkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42226	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment complements the provision of Article 1. The bill, which defines the establishment of a human cell bank as the subject matter of the law, as well as the jurisdiction of the Biomedicine Authority in the field of human cells and tissues, which, in addition, becomes the supervisory authority of the implementation of this law. As far as this law, or bill, is concerned, it is already quite said in this area. What I'd like to remind you of is the fact that time for suggestions, objections and criticism was too short. Namely, the Ministry of Health held a public debate between 9 December 2016 and 30 December 2016 and for representatives of state authorities, public services, representatives of health institutions, professional public and other interested participants. The public also had the opportunity to submit proposals, suggestions, initiatives and comments to the health ministry's e-mail. The draft law working group found that the subject matter of this law was not the application of diseased cells and tissues, but that this law lays down conditions for the achievement of quality and safety in the area of cells and tissues for human application, with the possibility that the cells and tissues taken can also be applied for a different purpose than those for which they are taken, but only with the consent of the donor for that other purpose. It's meant for scientific research. Certain suggestions and objections to the public were valuable, and what could not be integrated into the law will be integrated into the envisaged sublaws after the law was passed. What is most important after the adoption of these laws in the field of health care is to create a plan to promote voluntary giving in the Republic of Serbia, as well as education and closer information and interpretation of these laws to doctors, especially health institutions in the interior, and they, by their knowledge, trust and communication skills, draw closer and clarify this area to patients, with the aim of extending life. The comments I have heard from citizens these days are very positive and for this reason the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for a set of health laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42227	Thank you. The People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted the title above Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Faith of Radet. Here you go. There's something wrong with the system right now. Please just be patient.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42228	I've been saying for a few days that you're not good with the system, and here, it's turned out to be bad. So, as much as you've tried to make a proposal for these laws, especially this transplant law, separate it from the public's eyes, it's also present in public and there is the concern of the citizens of Serbia. There's a lot of talk about it, as much as you think it is. Actually, you know that, but you're trying to comment differently. People are really scared. People generally don't mind organ donations, but not like this. Someone here was also talking about giving blood, voluntary blood, etc. Yeah, but you don't get the people around town to go out and give blood, but people come in and say, "I want to give blood." For example, for years back, the Serbian Radical Party has organised three times a year voluntary blood donations, primarily in Belgrade and Novi Sad, as well as in other municipal board seats. Let's just say, what was interesting, for a time, was that one of the TVs regularly informed and invited people to come to this place because they needed to get as much blood as possible and we called, asked to know, in Novi Sad there was, that the radicals organized the blood supply and they didn't want to publish it. So much for how much you're kind of looking at things, and you're talking here that it's the opposite of that. Here you were talking, the MPs were saying, I was just waiting to start a little bit about health care in Serbia, but what we heard was the state of the country of dembelia. My people, be realistic. There's some shifts, all right. It's a good thing you hire young doctors, all right. It is good that a salary increase is announced, i.e. to return to what has been reduced to medical staff, etc. But be realistic about what the subject is and what you want to praise. You're saying something that nobody believes you. We're listening here today that the MPs of someone last called, progressive, that all the donors, that they all signed donor cards and somehow I feel like they're talking about this law -- uh, falling from my heart, I had to sign a card, now it's no longer valid, and now I can go because there's no public publication and to say no, no, I don't give my organs. So you just have to be realistic. If you want this law to have an effect, say nicely that the organs in the event of brain death are donated by anyone who wants to. You can't have life and death. As much as you act like it, it doesn't work. You will see, and some much more modern states than Serbia have tried with such a law, so they have changed it in the meantime. We heard how many hundreds of thousands of billions, minority like those Bačević's in the Chinese, were spent in health care in Serbia. It's all nice, but we haven't got the answer yet, first of all from Minister Loncar, and then from those who boast, I see they know all the data, we haven't got the answer to the question where, in which way, a billion euros of health care disappears, according to the president of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42229	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42230	Right on line, Mr. Chairman, SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42231	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42232	May 8. In 2015, Tanjug published 13 and 15 lessons, donor invitations to MPs and committees. So when SNS MPs say they signed, in common action, donor cards, we mean this. So it's not about any manipulation, fiction, fairy tales, as it's already been said, so it really happened. The game of the case serves me enough memory, so I was in that room where our MPs signed the donor cards. I can, if I have to say in person, that it really happened, there's no need for you to worry about it. We are, of course, serious people behind our words and when we say something here, it's not only absolutely true, it's absolutely confidential. What's real in Serbia today? Check, all of you who possibly doubt, whether it's real and whether it's true. So, let's say that today, thanks to those solutions adopted by the SNS, rare diseases are being treated, which could not be treated before. Is that true or not? Check that the funds have been identified for that purpose. From year to year, here's the fourth year, the bigger and bigger and the more they are now, whether they count in total in billions of dinars, as we claim. All of this can be checked and it's easy to determine that it is. Make sure that billions of dinars are reinvested by the SNS and the government in which the SNS headquarters is equipped with medical facilities throughout Serbia, for the purchase of new equipment, for their editing. Check it out, and you can look at it with your own eyes, if you go, let's say to Nis, if the Clinical Center is open, if it's equipped, how many square meters it stretches, and remember who did it. That's all, simple verifiable things and we, when we talk about these things, are, of course, absolutely serious. What is not serious, which I will end up with, Mr. Chairman, is not serious to come here, to participate in the debate with us, to be beaten to the feet, and then to pretend like nothing happened in some "twitters" and in similar places to try to represent Serbia... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42233	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, and then a straight line, you Verice Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42234	I just want the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia to inform me that last night while we were sleeping, a successful heart transplant was done. It's the seventh heart transplant since the beginning of the year. With us so far, no more heart transplants have ever been done for this period of half a year. I thank everyone who participated in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42235	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Faith Radeta, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42236	A few things, first of all, I didn't say that I suspected that the advances, the MPs, signed the last call, had signed the donor cards, I said they had completed the warrant. The difference is drastic. Next, whoever's beaten to the ground, we'll talk when we discuss the amendments and additions to this law here, you'll be quick to believe. Third, I expected that key response where the millions of euros disappear magically per year from the budget, within the health budget. Now, that answer when we get it, then we can talk about something more serious. We heard the most terrible thing that could be heard here. Says Mr. Orlic, billions invested by the SNS. My people, so don't invest in SNS, the SNS has won a certain number of votes, a percentage and it is the most and it is to exercise power. It's not disputed to rule with the high percentages you won in the election, but it's not your money, people. You have formed a government, the assembly majority has voted, the government has responsibility, and the money that is invested, this size, less or larger, is the money of all Serbian citizens. It's not SNS money. Of course, you're probably going to say now that you won, I don't know how many votes in the election, yes, but when it comes to this law, don't act like you came to a man's door and said, "Here's a pack of food, you vote to us, and as soon as we get power, we take your kidney." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42237	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42238	Don't just get angry. As for these stories, we give you, we take you, I don't go to that level. I haven't done it yet, so I won't do it today. As for that -- to fulfill the warrant, how do we now convince someone that some things simply do with a full heart? Neither does it make sense, nor does it occur to us to explain it, but, you know, look at this very news agency published by "Tanjug", I told you what date at what time. Look at the faces, you'll see the faces of the MPs of the SNS of proud men. People whose hearts are obviously full because of the acts they did that day, so it'll be as clear to you as possible, if you don't get it by now. Where does it go, like you said, a million euros? Look at the news from two days ago, the best and most expensive drugs we couldn't afford to treat our children, we can afford today. No one says it's SNS money, but no one can say that it's not the money Serbia has today, which is due to the SNS today, thanks to Alexander Vukic and the policy that has ensured that this money today has both for those sanitizers and for the Clinical Centre in Nis and for every treatment we haven't had, and we have today. It's all because of this policy that has this percentage of support that you don't like when it's mentioned, but there are facts. Who was beaten to the punch? You say, "We'll talk someday." We can talk today. Here's who had a strong need last night to give himself extra courage and defend himself, and he wrote on some social networks that he had won something in the debate. This was determined by society, also beaten to the ground, by some Sas Mirkovic, Sas Jankovic, Janko and Željko Veseninović, and by all others who only function in this world, who exist virtually and who therefore never have the opportunity to destroy anything again, so that they compete in what is now a fact and reality. I'm sure we understood each other a lot better then.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42239	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42240	After you invested, the advances, the money in the development of health care, or your money, as you said and since you're all donors, we haven't heard of these few days from the minister, or from any of you, what percentages of the donor cards were in Serbia? How much is it compared to statistics measured everywhere in the world? Where are we compared to the world? Does that match your voice state? That's what we want to ask you, to see how many people have supported you in this. As for publishing on social networks, I don't know if you mean my Twitter account or anyone else's, but if you don't know, Twitter is a public communication warrant and when you publish something on a Twitter account, here's to teach you, I can tell anyone that he likes, anyone can comment on it, anyone can share it. I don't know how many thousands of posts on Twitter will still be, and that whenever you close the session here, that is, whenever you agree that there is no direct transmission, I inform the public via Twitter, as soon as I can, what's happening in the Assembly Hall. I'll keep going, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42241	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42242	"Agip prop", the method of activation of propaganda, right? That's what we just heard, well done, I support. As far as the subject is concerned, our money. I kind of say Serbian, it just seems like there's no one to hear, no one said SNS money, but the money that exists today in the budget thanks to SNS policy. How can someone who is the peak of the political reach that Twitter is talking about? How? That we spend words on these topics, it's completely insane, but how many cards he said, but still he had no one to hear, said Mr. Bojanic, in 2011, when he was in a situation where he needed help as a citizen, there were so few of those cards that we were not even in the system of international associations. Today we are, and today we are, so if it doesn't tell you enough about how much the situation has changed, no one can say anything to you, but how much the state of our voices is and who is in that Twitter account, etc. So, on these Twitters, society is the same because they behave in the same way, of the same people have the support and the same factory excuses for arguments used by those who had identical content on these Twitter accounts last night, which are in order Verica Radeta, Jelena Macic, it's a great make-up, you might have heard of her, Sergei Trifunović, you know what she's known for, by some... Marko Atlagic throws. )......................................................................................................... So Mr. Atlagic, you know who he is, Sasa Jankovic, also a great political worker, Janko Veseinovic, a great political genius, Željko Vesenovic, also a politician, is also the same as the other one, Veseinovic, but he is not in the same party, but he is as important as all of these previous ones I have read, Branimir Kuzmanovic, you have certainly heard of him, Zoran Čicak, it is probably some adviser in Macedonia and this Jankovic, Biljana Lukić, I do not know who he is, but it is also important and Sasa Mirkovic. So, all together, probably another one, I haven't been able to count it all, are at the same level of political arguments and political relevance, thanks to these Twitters and such a sense of politics, i.e. the agitprop method.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42243	Thank you. The Faith of Radet, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42244	This is, of course, an abuse and a great lie, because indeed all these people are probably on Twitter, like Orlic, as are some other people in the ranks of the advances, but these people have nothing, or it would be best to be honest and look at the comments on my comments from all those he listed, to see where we are similar. I'm still just insisting on the question, where a billion euros disappears, you let Twitter go, you let go of who you know, who you don't know from Twitter. The people want to know where a billion euros has disappeared annually since when is Zlatibor Loncar the minister? A very simple question, and the question has been asked by the president of the state. So let's just get an answer to that question, and then let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42245	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42246	I see you've been doing a little bit of data, it's not a million euros anymore, it's a billion now, it doesn't matter, I don't want to be petty. One dose of the most expensive and best medicine available to our children today, one dose, costs 90,000 euros. Such doses are required, I think, each year worth 540,000 euros per patient. Is that right, 540,000? About 20 of these doses have been provided only in one step now Count a little and compare with what Serbia couldn't yesterday, and what Serbia can do today. Maybe there's something clearer about it again. I don't expect anyone to be happy with such a good result, I don't expect those who aren't able to rejoice at any success, if it isn't their own, to share that joy. But let's at least be so polite that we don't attack such a result, that we're at least so polite as to say -- well, it's okay, never mind me, I'll skip the subject, I'll deal with something else. What does anyone do in these Twitters, etc., so I don't know, here, seems like a big enough resemblance to me when someone takes it and makes some installation, puts a picture of a man, so he writes something that that man didn't say that he would soak himself up and brag about social networks. It's the same level of lack of any political power and power to me. When it's done on Twitter, it doesn't matter who's named, it's the same people, people of the same reach, the same manners. For example, someone who takes the order and says: "The SNS MP has gone rogue about the desert procedure and everything is like that, as a graduate lawyer in the debate yesterday. Of course, all enjoying these installations that were otherwise shared by Sasa Jankovic, Kuzmanovic, Čičak and everyone else in exactly the same way. When someone doesn't realize that they directly challenged it, not someone on our side, but the one who first mentioned these desert debates, which is, of course, Alexander Seselj, how I help someone and pooped myself that I expect that someone will be able to take things seriously, such as funds for treating children.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42247	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42248	This is why people don't trust you and why people don't believe this bill and why they're afraid of these transplants of yours. It's about one case, I said the name, and I won't say the last name for that man, it's about a man who's been on dialysis for several years in Nis, and he's not from Nis. The man was a few times first to get a kidney, so every time a kidney appeared he fell to one or two places below and didn't get a kidney. A few days ago, they called him and said, "Bravo, you're the first one." Here's a kidney for you. The consilium says, in the last few years, your system has weakened so much that you can't handle that operation. As for what's being commented on the Twitter warrant, this isn't Twitter, these are the stenograms from the Parliament yesterday. According to the Law of Inheritance, I quote the Law of Inheritance: “The inheritance is opened by man’s death. ” That's what the Legacy Act says. So when a man dies, he no longer owns anything, so he doesn't own his organs. That's what Martinovic said. Twitter doesn't allow so much to be written, I would then here, now I'm going to explain, so if what he said is true, it means that when a man dies, then you have to wait for a desert debate, so who in the family will inherit the right to have a cornea, like a kidney, like a heart. I don't know where you're going to keep a man that's brain-dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42249	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42250	Not that you're tweeting, but it gives a microphone to read, but you won't. Read the following, where you have left off, Martinovic says -- if he is opposed to having his organs transplanted to another person, he can give a verbal or written statement for life that he does not want to and no administrative procedure is being conducted and no administrative dispute is being conducted, nor is any governing body making any solution about it. What you're saying is not in the law, it's in the function of scaring citizens, it's a function of criminalising Serbian health. What's wrong here? That's all true, that's what you did, and then you bravely went home, set on Twitter and said – it's stupid to talk about some administrative dispute and administrative procedure. Do we like stenograms? And I like stenograms, listen now to the stenogram of Alexander Seselj – the question arises who owns the human body, is it possible that the man is not the owner of his own body, so here's who asked if the deceased is the owner of the body, should submit a statement that he won't, so he can verify it, so until the solution arrives and then what happens? Are we going to have administrative procedures and administrative disputes about someone not wanting to give their authority to the state? If it's the essence of all the objections that it's unintelligent to mention administrative disputes and administrative procedures, who did it? Then who did you call? So, in a keen desire to be against solutions that are undeniably good for all those people who are waiting for the help of this species, let's find a little measure. I don't have a problem with people jumping into their own mouths, so they don't know themselves or calling their own names. What I expect is that it is some minimum correct relationship, that we lead this debate so that people for whom it is important not to think about these solutions – God, whom I voted for, even by mistake, and sent it to that National Assembly. If you really care about every single example, which you're willing to bring out here, if it's important just to talk, talk to people, how anyone can and loves, broadly, but let's take a little care of what we're about and where we are, I guess we're not asking too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42251	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42252	I'm not unaware of what you want, Mr. Orlic. As far as these comments are concerned, you obviously don't quite understand or distinguish some statements. I'll do it again, and this isn't a cartoon. So “a man dies is no longer the owner of anything, so he is not the owner of his organs. ” This has nothing to do with those additional explanations of yours. This is what a doctor of law said. As anyone further interpreted it, how anyone joked about it, how anyone made a serious comment, etc., it has nothing to do with it. So this is the essence of what you saw on Twitter. Let me tell you, I don't need the courage, I write from here. Do you think I'm afraid of you, so I should go home and then write on Twitter? What kind of comments are these? Someone mustered up the courage, went home and wrote on Twitter. I'm not afraid of you. No one's afraid of you. No one's afraid of you. So, from here I'm going to write, I'm going to write, I'm going to talk here, I'm sorry we don't have as much time as we'd like, but this morning, George Milicevic said that we should change the Rules of Procedure, very well, here we are in the first or second week of this conference, right, it's about time to change our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42253	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go. Here you go, Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42254	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'll try to explain what it looks like I failed to explain yesterday. So your colleague Seselj spoke of the human body and of the human organs in categories of civil law, owner, inheritance, etc. The human organs aren't things and they're not traffickers, it's about rights. As far as medicine goes, that's what the minister explained to you yesterday. So, in order for a man to get into a situation where his organs are taken for the purpose of transplanting another man, he needs to be in a state of brain death, so that his brain isn't working, but that all other organs, heart, kidney, lungs, etc. work. So it's not the dead man's organs that are taken, it's the man who's alive, so first it's his, here, let the minister correct me, he's the doctor's man, I'm not, his heart is taken last. First they take the kidney, then the liver, then the lungs, then the heart. And if he survives, his heart remains only. All right, you're laughing, you're all funny. We're talking about a serious subject. So, you don't take organs from a dead man, you take from a man who's completely dead and brainy and when it comes to heart function, and when it comes to the work of all other vital organs, you take organs from a man who's in a state of brain death, where all the other organs work. If someone does not want to be a donor, or donor of an organ, he can do so orally, orally, or written a statement to prevent it, and even if he did not do so for life, his relatives who are defined as Article 23 can do so. The law on human organ transplants and there's no misunderstanding. Everything else is a cartoon, a mockery, and everything else is an attempt to attack Zlatibor Lončar on a personal basis, what you did yesterday, or some MPs from your parliamentary group, calling the minister of health of the Republic of Serbia a butcher, a human organs dealer, a butcher, a member of the Zemun clan... (The Faith of Radeta: He said not the butcher, but the butcher.) So if you think it's a dictionary that's suitable for the National Assembly, well done, but just to tell you one thing, don't have double arches. You're angry, and you're right to be angry when someone says he's a war criminal for the president of your party, but you're giving yourself the right to call a health minister a butcher and a human organ dealer. Don't have double standards. You're in pain when a guy called Vojislav Seselj a war criminal, and you think we should keep quiet when you're the health minister we've chosen and you call from the ranks of our party a human organ dealer, that's a terrible accusation. That doesn't look like a parliamentary dictionary. I understand that you are against the law, I understand that you are against transplants, I understand all that, but that the man who's the minister put on a pillar of shame by calling him names and terms that really don't like parliament, I think that's below every civilization level, so that's what we talked about yesterday, and that's what we talked about today. What counterpart Orlic said, of course, was that the on-call critics Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic and all the others who get up at noon, who come to the Assembly to have coffee, and then wait for a break in two to come down to the restaurant to eat, know everything, understand everything, only when they were in power none of what Minister Lončar managed to do, along with his team, failed to do, nor to build a Clinical Centre in Nis, nor to get linear accelerators, nor to get a gamma knife, nothing was able to do, they ruined everything. Now that they're out of power, they're too smart, now they understand everything, and now we're all out of our minds. So you talk about it – you from SNS give money etc. No, thanks to SNS policy, thanks to Alexander Vucic's policy, which you suspected since 2014, we are in a situation where in 2017 and 2018 we have a surplus in the budget, that we have GDP growth of 3.5% and that we can therefore buy all of this medical equipment, build these clinical centres and buy medical equipment and treat five times as many children abroad as we could treat them, say, in 2010 and 2011. No longer children in Serbia have to be treated through SMS messages and through false humanitarian actions, but there is a budget fund for the treatment of children abroad, and this fund is full, thanks to the fact that you or anyone else in the opposition or not, the politics of Alexander Vukic, thanks to SNS policy, thanks to all those measures of economic and fiscal consolidation, which we carried out with the barbeque fire of the media, MPs from the opposition, various experts, the type Milan Culibrk, who understands everything from Kosovo to the azotar, and who suspected the policy we conducted. Today, in 2018, as in 2017, we have a surplus in the budget, we have enough money to treat our people, to equip our clinical centres, to make new ones, to buy the most modern medical equipment, and that, after all, the majority of Serbian citizens no longer have to go abroad to be treated. Now it can do so in its country, in Serbia, and all this is the result of the policy that has endured citizens' rehearsal in the elections in both 2014 and 2016 and 2017. And don't think that the people are ignorant, that the people don't know anything and that the people don't believe who works for the good of the citizens, which is exactly the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, these are just the ministers of the Serbian government, and that is exactly what we are, after all, SNS MPs who are allied to all that works well for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42255	Thank you. I think we've discussed "Twitter" enough about Dr. Martinovic's statements. You can't stop this right now. I have to once, I have to at some point, because this could take a while. I'm very glad and I like to listen to both arguments. Then I'll do the Rules of Procedure. ) Don't, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, because I have to, in accordance with Article 87, set a break. We're working on it at 4:00 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42256	Dear fellow Members of the People, we continue our work. The title above Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42257	I thank the chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several controversial members in this bill that will, when they are found out, cause anger, public condemnation and mistrust in your entire system of government. One of them is also a member of Article 28(4), and it is about underage children who were without parental ageing for life. Under the proposal of this law, which will be adopted within a few days, tissue is allowed to be taken, and in that other law and body, only on the basis of the decision of the Ethics Committee of the Health Institute. Legal agents, guardians, relatives in this case are completely excluded. In other people, even a kinsman wonders, and when it comes to these children, they're nobody. One way or another, it says in both laws, although the minister here claimed otherwise a few days ago when he was answering the MP, Bosko Obradovic. Now it remains unclear what the minister wanted to achieve with this statement, maybe he doesn't even know what the law says, and it's better if he doesn't know, so in time to react, because you'll see how the Serbian public reacts when this gets out. It is possible that the cause of the system of social protection that is too glamour and that works badly and that it is difficult to obtain information about relatives, so it was simple to regulate it in this way. In Serbia over the past five years, about 5,668 children. I don't know how many have been abandoned, but I know I don't trust this health care system like at least half of Serbia does. There's no trust in social workers or foster families. I know how people react when news of disputed adoption decisions, foster parents comes to light in the media. Our people are scared of this power, believe me. This member, this repressive bill will be the drop that pours the glass. Can you, Mr. Minister, guarantee that there will be no abuse? Do you guarantee that every child will be maximum protected and that this most sensitive group will not become a bank of tissues and organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42258	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42259	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues, I have submitted the following amendment, in Article 2(2). The bill also changes – the provisions of this law apply also to the procedures for giving, obtaining and testing human cells and tissues used in the manufacture of products intended for human use, which contain human cells and tissues or are produced from human cells and tissues. Let's look back on the main aspect of these medical laws. These laws penetrate man's privacy and many of the things the law provides can be realised beyond his will. How is it possible that the law predicts that every man is a potential donor unless he explicitly states that he does not want to be a donor? That the last word gives the family does not mean much and it cannot meet possible abuses. I'm not talking about the ethical aspect of everything that and what all this can lead to. This is a special topic that may be more important than anything else, but that's something else. So for all these reasons, the SRS will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42260	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42261	I would take the opportunity, if it weren't a problem, Mr. Chairman, to speak a few words about this third law, given that the minister is there, that it is not good and that this is not heard from the direction of MPs and, of course, from the direction of the citizens of Serbia. So the third law is amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances and you are this law, and the law sounds nice in public, but this law has nothing actually done on substance, no measures are taken on the subject of drugs, prevention and so on. You have this law merely formulated conditions for the functioning of the national data collection system in terms of supply and demand and introduced an early warning system for new psychoactive substances. What I want to point out and what's very important is that the minister should know and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to turn your head to the SRS when we tell you something from this direction, because we really have no evil intentions, nor did you come here to underestimate someone, you've already come to explain the law and you're obliged to look at someone, in a conversation, someone who tells you. So I'm not going to talk any further unless you turn your head to us, because this is not my problem, this is the nation's problem, this is the problem of the state, this is the problem of all our citizens and all our children. We don't need any roads, no railways if we drop our kids. We as parents don't have the strength to deal with this without the presence of the state and without the support of the state and government. You're here in front of the government, in front of the state in charge of these topics, and let your behavior really serve you honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42262	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42263	Thank you. Listening to today's discussion of some colleagues on our left, simply, that a man wonders what country it's about. I will bring my discussion closer to both the topic and the home court. We're talking about laws relating to transplants. You listed the number of donors and transplants in 2017. In this regard, I ask the question when was the first heart transplant, i.e. organ transplant in the Republic of Serbia, and in which health establishment when we know that seven heart transplants were made in 2017 from possible 40 donors? What success are we talking about here? Calculate what percent that is. A serious question is rightly raised - by what regulation, criteria and standards have so far been allocated donors to health institutions, and why has it not been performed evenly towards everyone? In this way, not only has there been discrimination against certain health institutions that have been authorised to transplant, but also discrimination against their patients. Of course, this has brought the most damage to the patients themselves, perhaps even the loss of life, which has violated the rights of patients from 2013, which, in addition to the rights established, has established adequate sanctions for the violation of individual rights. Dear colleagues, on the basis of answers to questions and accepting or not accepting the answer that we have these days in the National Assembly in the unseen and inappropriate conduct of the Minister of Resort not to answer any of our questions. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this proposal is made up without sufficient influence from the professional public, insufficient time to conduct a public debate, the fact that some provisions are not clearly defined and defined, leaving the possibility of different interpretations, and this also means different practices in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42264	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42265	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fundamental objection of the SRS to this bill refers to Article 28 and so on. The assumed consent to the position of the deceased without parental ageing, where the decision to take an organ is taken by the Ethics Committee of the Institution. The same applies to those persons who are partially or completely deprived of their business ability. Minister Lončar said yesterday that the reason for refusing this amendment was because he said it was a disagreement with the family law, because custody of a juvenile protégé ceases at the time of death, so I ask you, since my colleague Martinovic said a little while, I will quote, he says - not taking organs from a dead man, but from a man who is alive. But who is alive, so first they take, here, let the minister correct me, then repeat that no organs are taken from a dead man, with a man who is completely dead, and brainlessly and when it comes to the work of the heart and when it comes to the work of other vital organs. Well, if that's the case, then you should definitely accept this amendment, because as they say, the man is alive and then his organs are taken. And, if it's no problem, explain to me how this man is a little alive, a little dead, is he alive at all or isn't he? Well, you as a doctor, if you can explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42266	Thank you. Maja Gojkovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42267	Article 107. It should already respond to this kind of discussion, because we are obliged here to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and not to cause panic in people, that someone thinks that someone half-dead, half-dead, as one of the MPs has now said, is kidnapping and taking certain organs. I got a message a while ago, 15 minutes ago, one important message. All I'm going to say is that the person from Sjenica is from the opposition party, and it's very opposition parties these days, who sent a message of gratitude to Minister Loncar and the Ministry of Health and to all of us who are going to support this law, because with the help of kidney transplants, his sister's life was saved from his aunt and because of Parliament's dignity, because of citizens who, because of some wrong, lay discussions here, are simply afraid of this law, I have to read something that will make us think. "My aunt's sister got a kidney two months ago and everyone in my big family is grateful to the health minister and to the whole team who participated in the process where a young life with dialysis of five years of torment continues to be worth a young person's life." Is there a better defense and better motive to uphold this law? Thank you. I won't ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42268	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Natasa Sp Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42269	I will speak very competently today, Mr. Marinkovic, since I have prepared seriously for this debate on this law. Here, Mrs. Gojkovic is a lawyer, a lawyer, Martinovic is a doctor of law science and I will restart it, since nothing knows about it but Minister Loncar, you could, Mr. Martinovic, teach him or Mrs. Gojkovic, the legal aspect of this law. So it wasn't just enough to create a picture of humanity being the first place in your life. Of course, both with me and with each of my colleagues, but you have to bear in mind the fact that the donation of organs to many countries in the world outside the EU has been resolved in a much better way, and you've just grasped the method of assumed consent, as Brussels says. For not looking up to some of the countries in America, Canada or other Scandinavian countries, which have very much in line with their Constitution protected both families and potential donors through humanity in action. This can't be a classic legal contract. What Martinovic was saying yesterday is really something that he would try to justify today as if he were saying it, that's what the example is about, but, on the other hand, because here it's about ethics, about mercy, about giving, and how the family of the one who hasn't spoken up until the moment of his death can have a problem. They may have a problem with the fact that you've been left unarranged, and who is in the family that gives final consent because there can be a dispute between them? I don't have a lot of time and I'm going to give you an example in Italy, when there was an accident and when the family decided that from their so hard and unfortunately lost life and the lost, the organs donated, it also came up with a huge legal dispute between them, because someone who thought at that point had a major word, decided instead of everyone else. So you will go in a five-member family to go from one to the next to the next to ask: Who is he who will give the last word, and that his is respected, if that man never wanted to think about it, he has not had a chance to say it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42270	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nenad Christmas and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42271	Thank you. Article 2 The bill of law on human cells and tissues was defined by the application of this law. In that sense, we of the SRS parliamentary group have tabled an amendment to Article 3 which speaks in which cases the provisions of this law are applied and we have proposed that text be adopted in this case which we consider appropriate. In particular, we have suggested that the wording “cells and tissues obtained from one person on that person” be added in point 2 of the same medical procedure. We believe that the proposer should accept this amendment, and in this way we will have a law in which better and more precise terms are defined. Otherwise, we in the SRS have repeatedly repeated that we have nothing against some new ways of treatment, or humanity, on the contrary, but we advocate that any donation of the human body must be voluntary and with the approval of a person who will become a donor. The default consent is unconstitutional and should not be imposed by law. Likewise, the promoter's claims that avoiding the financial costs of keeping the register simply does not exist. In order for someone who does not want to participate in the story of donations to body parts, which he has the right to do so, to exercise his right, must confirm a statement and the above of that statement is paid. The SRS parliamentary group is of the opinion that these are sufficient arguments that such provisions of the law should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42272	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go. (Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović: Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42273	Please, this is where all the members of the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly are injured, the way the minister today, what is called, is being treated by Zlatibor Lončar, of course I can and I don't need to know why...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42274	You must specify a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42275	Please, Articles 107 and 108. So his body language, the way he sits, the way he looks, the way his right hand moves, talks all the time about one ignoring of our entire discussion today, the discussion of the SRS. If he has something personal against the discussion of the SRS, if it's directed at him, and he thinks we're guilty of some of the lies that we said today, or yesterday, or the day before, he's bound to follow the rules and make sure he sues whoever he thinks hurt him. He can't ignore the entire SRS parliamentary group and stay out of his business all day. What I wanted to talk about is drugs, is the abuse of our children in schools of 12 years old and beyond, a man shows that he is not exclusively involved in his work, that he has no political sensitivity for what he does, and that he has no professional sensitivity either. The second time you put people in government and choose ministers, make sure they're clean people looking into the eyes, and if we're wrong, let them sue us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42276	Thank you. I believe I did not harm the Rules of Procedure and that the minister is very actively involved in the work and in the discussions. Otherwise, one of the ministers who's certainly been doing a great job for the past two years and dedicated. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42277	Of course I do, and it would be good if MPs from the ruling coalition had... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42278	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42279	I ask you, Vice President of the Assembly, that you no longer interrupt the MPs. The discussion of the letter was very interesting and inspiring. It's just, when you talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you have to say which member, you can't just say all the members. Here, I list, there are all kinds of members and I don't know what to call it now. For a budget search, let's say, Article 172 received a word and insulted Minister Loncar. I don't know if you have anything to or against Secretary Loncar and you want to establish communication with him in any way, but the minister has nothing to say about your amendments and he doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure that the minister has to communicate with the MPs at all costs and that the minister has to discuss amendments to the MPs. It really doesn't make sense, and you've still raised your voice, and the minister will next time ask for a replacement to come here to parliament because he'll think he's not safe here. So, don't yell at your co-workers as an ordinary MP. As President of Parliament, I will have to protect him and his right to remain silent or disagree with your amendment. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure, or the Chairman, which did not warn you because you said – Here you are, in violation of all this. That's not how you talk in a parliament. You need to find a basis for reporting, even if it's like all of us, a little Filipino abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42280	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Maya Gojkovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42281	Article 116. All participants in the session are obliged to act in accordance with the rules applicable to MPs, and so Mr. Minister doesn't have to keep quiet without disrupting the dignity of the National Assembly and was rightly co-worker Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, and that the minister defends himself by silence, it is known to us, at least to me personally since I read in the paper, and there have been many, to call him "Dr. Death"... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42282	My colleague Jovanovic, you continue to practice, is not correct. Let's move on. Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42283	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues, this law recognizes the register of stem cell donors, a new law, which is not, with a fundamental goal for people who are waiting for stem cell transplants as soon as possible, and especially to increase the likelihood of a higher register and if these people do not have donors in the circle of their family. So this law is the basis for Serbia to be one big family for its health. Unfortunately, in this Serbia, there are individuals who are happy about other people's deaths, and I'm saying this about what happened a few days ago, when the SNS Councilman, Vladan Markovic, was in the estate while he was working, had a hornet sting and died. I'll read you a reaction from Jeremic and Tadic's supporters, one of them on Facebook, and he was very supportive, unfortunately. "A member of the SNS suffered from the stings of the hornets, so when we don't have to do anything by nature." Who raises them like this? Parents, surely, no. With this law and all our actions, we will do everything for the benefit of all and those who do not vote for us and those who hate us. We want them all the best, and that's the line that will always separate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42284	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42285	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr Minister, SNS and SNS MPs will give full support to all proposed health care laws, because the SNS is fighting for life and fighting for a healthy man. The policy that will be implemented in every democratic country, and Serbia is a democratic country, is decided solely by citizens, in elections, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the 2012 elections, in continuity and in an increasing number, provide support for politics and results and policies conducted by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. That's what's clear. That's what's unequivocal. That's what the election shows. Then, I want to say that he, as far as the laws on human cells and tissues are concerned, is comprehensive, that he is clear, that he is precise, that he is clear in relation to jurisdiction, that he is clear in relation to inspection, that he is clear in relation to criminal provisions, that this law has been conducted by public debate. Among other things, public debates involved those who are involved in their daily work in life, or dealing with the rescue of people from illnesses, which are doctors. This law is fully in line and is not in any kind of conflict with other regulations, and above all with Family Law, because they are trying to abuse underage children here, and the law is absolutely in accordance with Article 145(6). Family law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42286	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42287	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting this law, this area will finally be placed on the highest standards of medical science and practice, and given that it is developing offers great treatment opportunities. So far, this job has been done, but there have been no clear rules or prescribed conditions. This bill corrects these failures. First, it defines institutions that can apply for cell and tissue work. It also defines the future banks of cells and tissues and conditions they must meet. Also, an institution that deals with this area, the law will provide better working conditions and monitoring of modern achievements. The law also specifies the register of stem cells, the finding of direct donors and the provision of transplant cells. The information system will be unique in order to establish and maintain a traceability system, which is particularly important. The role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority have been precisely defined, and inspection supervision of the work of health institutions has also been arranged, which has not been the case in the previous legal solution. So, before us, we have a law that will certainly lead to the level of protection, health care and care for people being at the highest possible level, and in the day of voting I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42288	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42289	Thank you, Chairman. Given that this area of medicine is developing intensively and offers high treatment opportunities, as well as that health institutions performing these tasks are determined to need to improve and specify the conditions of organisations and jobs in the field of cells and tissues for human use, as well as to monitor the performance of jobs in the mentioned area, it is clear that the highest level of health care will be ensured, primarily through the establishment of a single quality system. The VMA haematology clinic did 100 stem cell transplants, so-called bone marrow. an allogeneous transplant taken from donors who are not related to patients. Such VMA transplants have been done since January 2013 since Serbia became a member of the International Trade Register. By 2013, such transplants were made abroad unless the country had a matching donor. Membership in the International Register of Donors in Serbia created all conditions for the treatment of malignant blood diseases, forms of transplants, as abroad. The VMA medical team has the necessary clinical experience to monitor patients after a transplant. More than 1,200 transplants have been done on VMA so far, and each year it is working to modernise this form of treatment. In the 21st century, the priority is to maximise health well-being in every age with general coverage of health care and health policy in all sectors. By creating sustainable health systems, it requires reshaping the demand for health services, reducing the burden... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42290	Thank you very much. The People's MP, Dr Vlado Babic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42291	Thank you. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, millions of cells participate in the creation and operation of our bodies. Each of them has its own function and role, i.e. they specialize in the functioning of a particular part of the body of the organism. It's exactly what I've quoted that separates stem cells from other cells. They are not specialized and can be transformed into any other type of cell in the organism, which has been destroyed during the process of aging, disease, injury or similar condition. They are the source of all cells of the body, and this ability to regenerate damaged tissues makes them unique in medicine. The stem cells of the umbilical cord have the following characteristics. They can be said to be young, self-renewing, smart, powerful, unique. The body of a newborn child is rich in valuable, potent, vital stem cells. During the nine months of their stay in the womb of their mother, they planned and built the body of a new human being. Later in life, they help to maintain the regeneration mechanism of cells that have been destroyed in the process of aging the organism, any injury or any condition of the disease in the body. At the time of birth in the blood of the umbilical cord, there are many so valuable stem cells. Each individual is the owner of its own stem cell deposit that could be used immediately through the progress of medicine and that person gets its compatible, unchanged, young, potent stem cells. These stem cells are stored in special stem cell banks after cutting the umbilical cord, and we always store whole umbilical blood without separating individual components, as this prevents the loss of individual cells that are important in the disease therapy for which they are intended. There are 158 public stem cell banks in the world that have been deployed to 36 countries and have stored over a million and a half samples and 250 private stem cells that store around eight million samples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42292	National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42293	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, according to the latest data, I think this is also important for this area of health managed by Mr Zlatibor Lončar, Serbia is definitely the economic leader of the Western Balkans because in the first quarter of 2018 we record GDP growth of 4.6%. So we are past all the countries in the region, and BiH, and Montenegro, and Macedonia, and Albania, and all the others, which means, Mr. Loncar, that there will be more money in the budget and for your portfolio. I want you to continue to rebuild the health system of the Republic of Serbia, to continue with all the important projects in the area of health care, as the project of the Clinical Centre in Nis has already been completed. What I also want to say is today is a big day for Serbia and because 272 young people, students, who have completed the criminal and police academy and who have today established a working relationship at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, have been admitted to permanent employment. The MUP of the Republic of Serbia together with the Ministry of Health leads an unfavourable fight against crime and corruption in all areas of social life, especially when it comes to fighting drug dealers and you, Mr. Loncar and your associates, as well as your colleagues from the MUP, along with these young people who got a job in the police today, I want a lot of success in continuing this battle which is the greatest monster among the Serbian youth today.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42294	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42295	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, development in all areas, including, of course, the area of health care, is an inseparable part of the policy represented by the SNS and we point to this amendment. The development of which certainly includes excellent legal solutions, including what we are discussing today, which uncontestably determines the most standards in the field of health care, standards that are at the world's highest level and when it comes to scientific and professional practice and results. Among other things, this development includes the implementation of an integrated health information system, which is also one of the great positive consequences of SNS policy implementation. Only one of his subsystems, also implemented in the meantime, to state as an excellent example, would be an example of an E recipe that represents a link between doctors employed in institutions, pharmacies and the Republic Health Insurance Fund. That system exists. It's built up, it works very much. Also established is the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. So, another extremely important result we have also achieved on this plan that has been discussed in the previous amendment of our MPs and on this plan also new, good results are achieved by just adopting those laws that are subject to today's debates. When you look at these good results, so the results that represent the undisputed modernisation of Serbia and the uncontested improvement and quality of life, but also the protection of health, on the one hand, are SNS policy, and all that is offered on the other. When I say it from someone else, for example. I'm thinking of something that's happening right now while we're discussing here. Pulen Dragan Gilasa, the famous fake unionist, Vesenović Zeljko equalises on social networks, where the second, the National Assembly with the "yellow house". So, all of us as ambassadors of the people he equals with the "yellow house" and he says that all the training was given to us by the verified butchers of the Serbian people, Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj. Compare it on one side. So that hatred and open destruction of everything including the citizens of this country and the entire National Assembly and all of us on the one hand and good results on the other. So, the results of the SNS Alexander Vukic. Things are more than clear, contrasting than obvious, so the source is more than easy in every election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42296	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42297	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, improving health care and caring for the health of the population depends to the greatest extent on the health conditions of the competent institutions, as well as on how the health services are provided to the population, regardless of whether they relate to the treatment and rehabilitation of the sick or to the preventive protection of the general population. In the health center of Užica, the city from which I come, based on an integrated plan of continuous improvement of the quality of work of the health center, has been undertaken, and many activities continue to be undertaken to improve the quality of work. With the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the management of the Uzice Health Centre recognised the need to introduce new diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, as well as the need to obtain modern equipment and conduct training of adequate personnel. As part of the Užica Health Center, it successfully works to treat patients with acute myocardial infarction, where more than 900 interventions are performed on average annually in the noble hall, and in the previous year alone, about 1,200 stints of blood vessels were performed by four intervention cardiologists. As of last year, after obtaining the Commission's permission for new technologies in health care, a stuttering of peripheral blood vessels has started at the pleasure health center. All the above talks about it is the health centre of Uzica according to the possibilities and with the help of the rest ministry to improve the conditions, treatment and prevention of the protection of all citizens of the Zlatibor district, Republika Srpska, northern part of Montenegro, citizens from the former republics of Yugoslavia who have the status of refugees and exiled persons displaced from KIM as a large number of tourists in the course of the tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42298	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Alexander Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42299	I thank the chairman. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine represents the support of this bill, the bill of human cells and tissues, but also the support of all those results of the Ministry of Health in the past period, and the results are so much that there would really be little of these two minutes, with as little as I have, to list them all. These are facts, facts that are not seen only by those who do not want to see them or only by those who have evil intentions. It is truly unacceptable for me to listen for days already to various ruses, to hear attacks against the minister, but completely unfounded and attacks without any single argument because how else to explain the fact that from the budget of the Ministry of Health for the period 2014 to 2018, 8.136,533.000 dinars for the reconstruction of health institutions whose founder is the Republic, and reconstruction and equipment and adaptation, as my distinguished colleague Orlic spoke of in one of the previous reports. If we consider only this information, then there is no story that the Ministry does nothing about health care, or improving the conditions in which health institutions are located, and this is not just one of the arguments. As one of the colleagues said in today's debate – by 2012 Serbian healthcare did not meet the evaluation criteria as part of the European health consumer index, and when it met the criteria, it was the worst estimate. It is the state of health that used to be, and we have heard on several occasions what the situation is now, that is, in the period since the SNS assumed responsibility for the exercise of power in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42300	Thank you, colleague Markovic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's sent Ana Čaapić. Here's my colleague, Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42301	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the quality of modern society is certainly a quality system of health care. Serbia really has something to boast about today. On the one hand, we have experts who are world-class, and on the other hand today we are discussing legal solutions that are at the level of developed countries both in the world and EU member states. This once again confirms that Serbia today is a country with accelerated economic development, so I have submitted the amendment accordingly. The state invests in the equipment of health institutions, and the Resort Ministry monitors the work of medical staff through reports, through images and with the aim of providing health care services to be of maximum quality, professional and professional and of course to reduce the crowds in waiting rooms, as was the case from before, of course, bad practice. The health system of the Republic of Serbia is really invested very much today. There's no part of it, no local self-government, no health center where something hasn't been done. As an example, I will take the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, which received the most modern biomedical laboratory, and there are only four of them in the world, then it is finished and started with the work of the Clinical Centre in Nis, which is the most modern. So, the ethnic region received the most modern KC, which invested more than 50,000 euros. Then, financial resources were provided for the completion of the KC in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. So all this tells us what we've achieved when it comes to the health care system. I would like to mention another interesting fact that a hundred heart surgery has recently been performed in Užica, all in order for demanding operations to be performed now at the restaurant and this will certainly reduce the cost of treatment. It used to be a practice for demanding operations to be performed exclusively in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42302	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42303	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when it comes to improving the quality of life of citizens and when it comes to improving conditions for improving medical services, we have the result of proposals for laws in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as they are today on the agenda and it is clear that their application will be an orderly area of health that will save many lives. The goal is to establish jobs in a unique, safe and secure manner, as well as to implement steps that will set the rules and standards equal throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the fact that in the last few years, the fundamental approach to solving problems and making solutions for removing them is confirmed by the proposals of the laws on human cells and tissues, where it stands out as very important that the waiting time be shortened, or that it will reduce the number of patients on waiting lists, to an increase in the number of donors, to the regulation of health institutions, i.e. society as a whole. Health care is much invested, it's done much locally and at a republican level and an example of good practice, and it's done a lot in DZ in Ub, only in the last few years. A lot has been done to improve health care conditions and, for example, DZ is richer for an x-ray machine donated by the Government of Japan, worth 6.2 million dinars. A UZ apparatus was installed in the gynaecological office. The children's department is equipped with funds from the municipality's budget. This Regulation For years, rooms and sanitary knots have been arranged. The Ubu DZ is also richer for a sanitary vehicle equipped with European standards, worth over 50,000 euros and thus improved emergency medical care. So with good co-operation of leadership in front of health institutions, at local level, in front of the municipality, the health ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia certainly contributes to better living conditions for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42304	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42305	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The proposal for a law on human cells and tissues and the same reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the development of medical protection. “ The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need for people’s human cell and tissue areas to be based on the highest standards of medical science and practice, since it is an area of medicine that develops intensively and offers great treatment opportunities, as well as for healthcare institutions performing jobs to provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. In its programme principles, the Serbian Progressive Party has given a significant place to a new health policy aimed at improving the situation and extending the rights, as well as an adequate position in achieving healthcare. Health policy is based on the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the common objectives of EU countries in the area. It is pointed out that the right to health and health care is one of the basic human rights and that everyone should enjoy the best health and quality of life and that everyone in such Serbia should have the opportunity to choose a healthy lifestyle and life in an environment that supports health. In the voting day, I will vote in favour of this bill, as well as the other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42306	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42307	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers, respected guests from the Ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, provisions of Article 2 of this Law refer to the stem cells of peripheral blood haematopies, umbilical blood and bone marrow. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 is further defined by the application of this law in terms of strengthening public health. The oldest definition of public health was given by Professor Charles Edward Gislo, quotes: “The public health is the science and art of preventing disease, extending life, improving mental and physical health, efficiency through organised efforts of the community to protect the environment, controlling infection in the community, education of individuals on the principles of personal hygiene, organising early diagnosis health services and preventive treatment of diseases and the development of social mechanisms that will ensure that every individual in the community has a standard of life that will allow it to preserve health. As far as hematopiesis is concerned, it's a process of creating and developing blood cells. Blood cells are constantly lost and destroyed. In order to maintain haemostasis, the system must have self-renewing capacity. In this regard, the existing law did not clearly define the existence of a stem cell register, haematoposis, as an organisational continent, as well as no liability and obligation to act in the register, which is the basis for working in accordance with the highest standards in this area. In the end, I'm just going to say that Serbian physicists, irradiated in Vinci in 1958, were the first samples of stem cells in the world. And as for the unwarranted criticism of your account, Mr. Minister, by one part of the opposition, you and your ministry are responding to the complete reconstruction of the Pirot hospital, which is under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42308	Thank you, Dr. Jancic. The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42309	I thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, the distinguished colleagues and ministers, who are truly qualified for this area, I would ask you to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that treating stem cells is an extremely useful thing, but that there is also one bad and one good news. The bad news is that stem cells can't be treated with insolence, education, thieving, dementia and all that's seen in the behavior of the bad guys with the Jaram market and the owner of the return pastures, but also in Dragan Sutanovac. I'm really not up to the task of making his comments on a daily list that otherwise has the attitude to pay for catering services in advance, probably because they charge their services to write ordered texts and paid by foreign embassies exclusively in advance, to pack this right diagnosis. I believe one of these diagnosiss I've counted can really be quite appropriate. So, you have to be either rude or rude or demented, so forget how you acted as an army minister or a thief with a Jarram market and then let yourself be criticized by someone who's doing this job today with honor and honesty, corrects all the nonsense, thieving and pigs he's done. The extraordinary ability to forget that you were selling tanks for the price of the second-hand south, destroying all military effects, and the fact that those airmen from Batajnica stole and hid the pilot's van so they wouldn't be ashamed of who was wearing it, and maybe out of fear that this guy really thought he was a pilot and asked him to chase him around. Yeah, that's, uh, distinguished colleagues, the combination of the guys with the Jaram market, the geometres taking action. Indeed, only with this kind of diagnosis can one forgets that it never occurred to him, from 2000 to 2012, that the “Dedinje” military facility, where waiters, chefs, not officers or soldiers, would normally work to make a profit by hosting foreign delegations, but rather run them by various bureaucrats with whom they had a contracted percentage and then used it for private purposes. Unlike that period, in 2012, since the Minister of the Army was Alexander Vukic, even today, when Alexander Vulin, and in the future, all foreign delegations are hosting the military institution of Dedinje as one of the most representative institutions. The good news, in addition to this bad news, that this cannot be treated by stem cells, for Serbian citizens, is that even his stem cells cannot be infected with thieving, insolence, insolence or dementia. In order for stem cells to be used, as far as I understand it, there should be a great genetic resemblance and not just a visual similarity to that of the Đeram market thief with Boris Tadic, who was taken together in protective and technical clothing that didn't bother one of the military unions at the time, and today it bothers. It didn't bother them when the market-wrestler with Jarram kept this sniper like a stick he was carrying with him when he was chasing people at Jarram's market who were trying to make some dinar and didn't agree with the policy he was leading, they didn't mind when he was wearing a military uniform, not just a technical piece and technical clothing. I ask you to really explain this to the citizens of Serbia, that there is no risk of anyone being infected with any of these diagnosiss that Dragan Sutanovac, Boris Tadic and this association of SLIP – the alliance of thieves and frauds carry with them, and I really think that the citizens of Serbia can take my word for it, you do not need to make any further statements about this, that no one in Serbia has ever wished or will have the opportunity to look more like such sick people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42310	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42311	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the local self-government of the town of Leskovec has made significant efforts over the past five years to provide citizens with better and better quality treatment, modern appliances and modern hospitals. So for the past five years, the town of Leskovac has invested nearly 800,000 euros in the House of Health, Leskovac. We've managed to renovate all 34 ambulances on our city's territory, many of which have been in very poor condition. We have also worked to improve the quality of treatment in the home of health. The dentistry has been completely renovated, and three new dental chairs have been obtained. About three million dinars were invested in reconstruction of surgical sauger, floors, windows, installation of ice-reflectors, procurement of dental instruments and materials. Thanks to the donations of the company "Actavis" and "Jura", two new color-dopplers, the ultra-sound apparatus, one for the needs of gynaecology and one for radiological diagnostics were obtained. For the past four years, the local self-government of the town of Leskovac has transferred funds to the home of health care workers worth 600,000 euros, following a decision by the city council and the City of Leskovac Assembly, totaling one million and 400,000 euros along with previous investments. In view of the fact that for this same period of five years, we have reduced the number of employees by 250, 105 employees in line with the Human Resources Plan to the General Hospital of Leskovac and the rest by natural outflow, we have financially reduced the liabilities to the RFZO of one million and 500 000 euros per year. The rationalization of primary healthcare workers has reduced the number of employees by 39 more and received a total of 154 million dinars in severance from the health ministry. In this way, respected ministers, the House of Health of Leskovac, after almost a decade, no more unnecessary workers. I note that on today, the House of Health of Leskovac does not owe for drugs, sanitary materials, energy and other material costs, and there is no dinar of non-intentional spending. We hope that the Commission of the Ministry of Health, when giving new consent to jobs, will take into account all these previous facts and respond positively to the request, as we have dropped 19 employees below the prescribed Staff Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42312	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The vulture really gets ahead of the results. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42313	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about health care, we must also link it to investment in institutions where health care is provided and provided. As a good example from the local self-government I come from, I would like to highlight the House of Health in Nis, whose leadership is constantly working on projects and, of course, with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with good co-operation with the city as a unit of local self-government, these projects are being completed and realised. So, at the House of Health initiative Nis, the town of Nis at the Office for Public Investment Management of the Government of the Republic of Serbia competed and received the project - Rehabilitation and thermal adaptation of the House of Health Nis. The reconstruction began and ended in 2017. The reconstruction was designed to replace permanent outdoor carpentry and lockeries, aluminum carpentry, garage door with aluminum roll-doors with thermoprecreas, repair and repair of air conditioning, construction of facades, construction of thermal insulation of stone wool ceilings of garages and walls towards the heating area, making new sidewalks around the building. The Nis Health Home has developed a project to resuscitate the roof, which has been approved by the Public Investment Management Office. The implementation of the roof recovery project is under way. These projects also maintain improvements in the functioning of facilities in which healthcare is provided are very important. On the one hand, precisely because of the quality of services provided by such an institution, but on the other hand, they represent evidence of kept promises made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic that health care will also be invested because of employees, therefore, because of better working conditions, but primarily because of citizens who achieve health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42314	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42315	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. The law on cells and tissues of human origin, which should define the provisions of laws that encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with reference to the development of medical centres. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, led by the SNS, has laid down a law that, through its adoption and application, should solve the problem of just over four thousand citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are now on the waiting list for organ transplants. Kidney transplants are waiting for about three thousand and 500 people, liver transplants around 200, new heart waiting for 30 patients. It is estimated that 30 people die annually in Serbia because of the inability to find a donor that is compatible with the organ transplant. The provisions of this bill, which will be adopted by support of SNS MPs and coalition partners, a period of waiting for a compatible donor to be found, i.e. The donor, will be significantly shortened, and the number of patients with health problems today will be significantly reduced. The financial effect of applying the law would be reflected in the fact that the number of patients referred to abroad from the Republic of Serbia would be significantly reduced and significant savings would be achieved in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, given that identical operating procedures in foreign centres are more expensive by 20 or 30 times than in centres in the Republic of Serbia. The funds achieved through the application of this law, the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health would continue the process of modernising equipment in existing medical centres and raising health care levels in the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42316	Thank you, Mr. Zeleg. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42317	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this bill seeks to make the area of human cells and tissues in humans the highest standards of medical science and practice, as it is a medical field, which develops intensively and offers great opportunities for treatment and that healthcare institutions that carry out these tasks provide better conditions for its implementation in line with modern achievements in this area. The draft law defines in a precise and clear way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues including all the conditions they have to fulfil in order to obtain a permit. In order to develop the area of human cells and tissues under the highest standards of medical science and tax in the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to define a register of progenitors of haematopoiesis that enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells. This law, as well as the proposal for a law on human organs transplantation, will resolve bad practices from the past, reduce waiting lists, as these laws systematically regulate the area of organ donation, cells and tissues in accordance with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42318	Thank you, colleague Damnjanović. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Lakatoš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42319	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Article 2 of the proposed law define the provisions that make the move in terms of tissue and organ donors. Since stem cells can develop into any other tissue, the possibility of their application is broad from pharmaceutical to cosmetic industry. This would also lead to the development of many industrial branches, which gives employment opportunities, and thus affects the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 of this Act further defines the application of the law in order to improve the health protection of our population. The formation of a stem cell bank would lead to a much greater number of people deciding to store stem cells, which would certainly have a positive effect in treating rare and severe diseases, both in terms of financial costs and preserving Serbia's citizens' health. The adoption of this law is of great importance to society as a whole, to improve the health status of the population, to improve the quality of health care provided, to allow for the reduction of disease detection until the start of treatment, also to allow replacement of expensive medicines, cytostatics and improve the quality of health care. The use of stem cells leads to shorter treatment, reduces the problems arising from treatment and reduces the financial costs required by the treatment of severe and rare diseases, such as cancer, blood diseases, diabetes, chromosome diseases, and others. Based on experiences from developed countries in the application of stem cells, it can be concluded that their application would be of multiple importance to improve the overall health sector and related days. The voting day should support this law, as this will positively reflect the health status of the population, which is our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42320	Thank you, colleague Lakatos. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Savkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42321	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on human cells and tissues, which reads -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the progress of medical institutions. It is very important to point out that the bill defines the register of stem cell donors, which facilitates the finding of donors who are not relatives in order to provide transplant cells. The register shall be conducted in accordance with the highest standards in this area. The bill also regulated all activities related to the keeping of a business register, which is a significant newspaper compared to the existing legislative framework. On the other hand, the continuity of professional surveillance has been ensured by the formation of inspection supervision that will operate under the Biomedicine Authority, surveillance will be carried out by the best experts in this area. The bill recognized the specificity of this area of medicine due to the introduction of new methods and the arrival of new inventions. They are also defined health institutions that can apply for a job within the meaning of this law. So far, the law has failed to define which facility can be a tissue bank. It is prescribed that every organ donation facility must participate in a republican organ transplant programme. With everything mentioned in mind, it is clear that the proposal for a cell and tissue law significantly improves this very important area of medicine and contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 2. It's a bill of law, and that's exactly what the amendment I'm proposing is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42322	Thanks, buddy. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has Milimir Vujadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42323	Thank you, Chairman. It is clear that the whole of Europe faces migration, both those whose flows lead to Europe and those whose flows are within Europe itself. In order for the migration flows from Serbia to be as small as possible, that is, to make our people more satisfied and stay in Serbia, it is necessary, in addition to everything else, to develop this medical system that we have and that is the intensity of this amendment. You are developing this, Mr. Minister, in a good way, along with the government and the president, especially considering everything that has preceded our society in recent decades, especially that decade and after the DoS rule of the current Serbian Union as they call it, self-called. There's a lot of concrete stuff here, and I can best talk about Subotica where I come from, so I'm going to say that there's been a lot of equipment purchased there for the last year, I'm going to just count the eye clinic, the gastro-entrology clinic, the X-ray that was last purchased in 1967, an intensive care respirator. In itself, it wouldn't mean much to anyone unless I told you that these equipment in the last year has been gained more than in the last decade. I think that's enough information. This is certainly due to management headed by Mr. Dr. Free Pusher, but also impossible for them to do so without the support of the entire system, by the president, you as minister, the circuit secretary and ultimately Mayor Bojan Laban. This is an apparent advance in technical terms and in terms of the equipment of a medical institution. However, I am authorized to file an application by management to help us monitor this record of progress in the equipment of the facility in terms of sufficient personnel, i.e. personnel solutions. That, you know, is the problem facing the whole region and Serbia. The rest of Serbia is also facing this problem, but believe me, we in northern Serbia are much more, because the situation is that people have more passports, and I ask you to help us solve this problem in some future period, and we will do so a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42324	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42325	It's already in the final phase of the Staff's new plan, so you'll certainly get everything you need, I know about both Vrbas and Saturday and everything. We're literally doing what's necessary and you're getting it as recently as possible, of course I mean the personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42326	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42327	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I reported several times yesterday, for the first time today and I want to say that we all took an oath in this high house, but that, in addition to this oath I took, I also took the Hippocratic oath. I made it very clear yesterday that I represented the importance of this passing of this law, ready to receive both criticism and beatings of certain people. I understand that this law is very easy to interpret in another way, given that Serbia's citizens do not yet know how important this one is. So I am also asking the Ministry to show practical experts over the coming months to talk about the importance of this law, to show people who are waiting for an organ to go through what kind of hell they are going through, to show in the national media people who have received organs, that and people, Serbian citizens realize how important this is matter that we are doing today. As a doctor, I would certainly point to any irregularities if she answered. As a doctor, I say that with the previous, previous legal solution, we have had the inability to provide adequate protection to our citizens and that many of our citizens died precisely because they didn't have the appropriate authority to do this, that's what our doctors do. Once again, since I mentioned Twitter, and on Twitter you have a very good campaign that was made under the hashtag “extend life”. The longer life speaks very clearly of this subject. You have also a very good hashtag – the most important call. The most important call waiting for our patients, 2,000 of them waiting for that most important call to be told they can come to the hospital, to find a donor and to be able to extend their lives. I talked about this subject last year. Since Twitter is mentioned, on December 3, 2017, I wrote on Twitter that I advocate this legal solution. I am not giving in to my views and I am not interested in government or opposition, I am interested in the citizens of Serbia and the possibility of helping sick citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42328	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42329	I thank the chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, for passing health care laws along with the country's large investment in the health system, for clearly talking about the definition of Serbia's state, then the government of the Republic of Serbia and the health ministry to stand side by side with the most developed countries. Over the past four years, more has been invested in the health system than in the past few decades. Investments like this, investments in health care, show primarily the attitude towards Serbian citizens. Today's fiscal situation is much better, clinical centres are being built, state-of-the-art devices are being purchased, waiting lists are shrinking or completely disappearing. This is how refurbished hospitals mean a better standard of living for our parents, for our children, because each of them will have better and better quality health care. It is especially necessary to highlight the doctor's and nurses' relationship to the success of the state, I can say freely, because with the best and best quality devices they can provide a much better service to the citizens, which they do. Of course, it should be noted that it was not easy, it was necessary to arrange public finances to not be spent more than they had earned. Interests and loans that were taken at high interest rates during the previous period were to be returned and peace and stability should certainly be maintained in our country. When you define yourself to be a leader of the state, you work in the interests of the citizens, then it is clear why the state of Serbia in all areas, and of course in health care, is taking big steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42330	Thank you, my fellow Prince. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Marijana Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, writer Pavić said that we all have one treaty with God, we're all on leave with God, I'm a trusting man, but we all have to try to keep this absence with God for as long as possible. I also think that organ transplants should be in that very purpose, that this contract that we have with God on a limited absence, on a life that is limited, lasts as long and as high as possible. Health outweighs all earthly good. There's a saying: "A healthy poor man is happier than a sick king." The sick king of the poor poor sees the crown on his head. Health is, too, saying, suits only a sick man can see. We need to take care of health. You should have listened to Mr Vlahodinović, or whatever his name is, at the press conference. You should've seen these guys from never had enough of how they perform at press conferences. Health cannot be stored with reic therapy. Those two ladies of the People's Parliament who provide medical and medical services without any license, you've all seen it on social networks, and even I've given some media to make it as visible as possible. It can't be the dick therapy they recommend, and if it doesn't help them, reiki or feng shui. So there are proven scientific methods in treating people. I don't believe in Vlach magic either. That's what Mr. Vlahodinović thinks, now we move to Vlahe, we apply Vladinovic's magic, we don't need organ transplants, it's so suspicious to me, and then he applies hair magic and who takes the hand away. It is simply not passing and should not be kept in error by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, first of all, they have to be applied scientifically proven means. We need to take care of organ transplants in health care. To say in the end, fortunately, evil minds cannot be transplanted and with that, honor for one exception, the yellow enterprise will certainly not harm this humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42332	Thank you. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia's health care has arrived from 36th place or last place on the European scale, according to data, in 24th place. If we keep working this well, in five to six years we'll be in 12 places. That's how it works. It's SNS and you, Mr. Minister. One of the biggest ventures is the reconstruction of the four largest clinical centres in the Republic of Serbia, namely Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, and not only that. A lot of money has been invested, over 700 million dinars, for the purchase of modern equipment, so four linear accelerators have been released into work, so the government has invested 700 million dinars in purchases, appliances have been deployed to four major cities, two to Nis, one to Kragujevac, one to Belgrade, and the World Bank has also invested a lot of money, Serbia will finally meet all the criteria because we have imported six more accelerators. Then, numerous waiting lists were reduced, and some were completely abolished. There is no waiting list in Kragujevac anymore. During 2017, an electronic recipe was established as part of the ISIS system, which will contribute to much less crowded health homes. That's how the SNS works, headed with you, Minister, and just keep going. I would also add that Serbia has renewed its application for Eurotransplant membership, and it is very important that I say this because it is of great importance for all patients on organ transplant waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42334	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, colleague Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42335	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to point out once again what is causing great interest and controversy in the public these days, and what has been said here many times before in the opening presentation of Minister Loncar, and then in many other presentations of the MPs. This is the following – the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues provides the possibility for every adult citizen of Serbia to ban, in writing or oral form, the donation of their organs, as well as the possibility for the family to do so, unless a member of the deceased has declared it. So there is no point in taking any organ to anyone, at any time or anywhere contrary to his will, unless a member of the deceased has spoken of it, contrary to the will of his family, and in the case of minors, the consent of legal agents or guardians is foreseen. I would especially like to emphasise that the new bill provides for criminal or criminal penalties for certain offences. A prison sentence of two to ten years has been prescribed for all those who offer for the sale of their own or other organs, as well as for persons who recruit, transport, surrender or otherwise intervene in the process of transplanting human organs. A similar and stricter prison sentence threatens people who participate in human organs transplanting a recipient who opposed organ donation, as well as doctors who use the organ of a donor who during life opposed the donation or were done by members of his family. So much for any attempts at abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42336	Thank you, colleague Djokic. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, we have before us a law that regulates conditions for quality, safety in the field of human cells, tissues with human use, for the purpose of treatment, which improves the level of health care, and all in line with modern standards of medical science and practices based on respect for priority interests for the preservation of life and health and full protection of fundamental human rights. This bill will remove bad practice from the past and reduce waiting lists, with clearly defined procedures. The promoter, therefore, tells us clearly that we do not have the right to a mistake, that we must do everything transparently, recordedly, with the agreed consent provided and fair availability. This is a law that will surely move our health system forward on the list of European health systems where we have already improved our position thanks to the reform measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic from 2012 until today. Reforms have already provided us with growth of gross domestic product by 4%, surplus in the state register, reduction of the public debt rate, unemployment rate at the historic minimum, reputation in the world, way of development and modernisation. That's why health care is available today. Treatment conditions are significantly better. A system was established for the benefit of healthcare users with the use of modern world achievements and state-of-the-art equipment, and only six years ago we found medical equipment by warehouses purchased for election purposes, prohibition of specialization, specialists over the age of 50, abandoned and ruined facilities of health institutions and their empty accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42338	Thank you. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42339	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, annual expenditures and expenditures for mandatory social security organisations at the level of the general state of the Republic of Serbia's budget amounted to 850 billion, when Serbia invested less, more than seven billion euros in these institutions. If you look at 2015, 2016, 2017, of course DRI has been doing an audit of the functioning of the institutions you run and when you do a sectoral audit of the institutions you run and other institutions in this sector, then you can understand based on their relevant report, which is not questioned, that only 0.14% of the financial resources are somehow misrepresented. In your work, there was no such thing in your ministry. Mr. Minister, you are responsible and responsible for the functioning of the entire health system, but I would like to point out that you have contributed by your work and by your efforts and that the financial part of the functioning of public funds in public policy management is completely transparent and as someone who runs this ministry, it is your responsibility. When we talk about the growth and development of health care, we should also talk about the policies of the UN-led public, the 2030 Programme that talk about sustainable development. The role of health in sustainable development is crucial. This is the third of the 17 goals, i.e. health care has nine goals. When we talk about the future of the world's population and better conditions, only food and food is more important than the health system. On the basis of my first presentation on the amount of funds invested in health and importance and these laws that we move the borders in the functioning of the health system, it is certainly clear that you as Minister and Government of the Republic of Serbia contribute crucially to the functioning of the health system in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42340	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42341	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by adopting the Law on Cells and Tissues, each citizen of Serbia becomes a potential organ donor if it is not explicitly opposed during life. The human organs of the deceased may be taken for transplant purposes unless the full-time professional is orally or in writing for the life of the deceased, or if it is not explicitly opposed by the parent, spouse, out-of-marriage partner or the adult child of the deceased. The proposed consensus for which a good part of the professional public has been advocated is certainly the most important amendment provided for by this law. In 2017, there were six donors per million people in Serbia, still less than 10% waiting for a new transplant body. The adoption of this law will also give us the first biomedicine inspector, who will be in charge of overseeing the operations of health institutions dealing with human organs transplants. As this law creates conditions for the promotion of human cell and tissue donations, i.e. raising citizens' awareness of the importance of donation, the SNS will vote for this proposed law in the voting day. Thanks to responsible management in front of the Ministry of Health, the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, intensive development in the field of health and the fact that more has been invested in the past four years than in the last 20 years certainly contributes to improving health conditions and improving the quality of life of our citizens. That's why I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, to support this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42342	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42343	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with colleagues, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted another amendment to this bill, with a desire to support all these proposals, because I think these proposals also meet the needs of our citizens and the needs of all of us here in Serbia. This way we finally have a chance to save someone's life tomorrow, and now it can't. I signed the donor card back in 2011, with the desire to support that initiative in this way because it's really great. Most of us talked about problems, especially things about medicine, the ministry of yours. I am pleased that there are many new appliances, new things, to be reconstructed of the homes of health, but one thing for me as a man who comes from Srlig, as a representative of these small municipalities from southeastern Serbia, the big problem for all of us is that we have once large homes of health that are now reconstructed, we have apparatus, we have everything, but we don't have enough doctors, enough sisters, so now we all want to keep those hospitals because a large number of our small municipalities have large territories, and a small number of inhabitants. These residents are old people, and there is a great need to go to them, to work with them, to ultimately provide adequate conditions for their treatment. So I think that, together with you in the coming period, we can find the opportunity to provide certain specializations, to specifically homes of health such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, and these small municipalities have the opportunity to have their own intern, to have some speciality that will provide them at any time tomorrow to save some life. One more thing that's very important for these little homes of health is that duty there is mandatory, that health homes there work all the time, and there are not enough workers. Once again, I thank you and invite all fellow Members to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42344	Thank you, fellow Miletic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people has received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42345	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to add Article 4 to Article 2 of this Act. The provisions of this law apply to stem cells, peripheral blood haematopoiesis, umbilical cord blood and bone marrow. stem cells have been used for years to treat many diseases, but experts expect much more from them in the future. They are collected either from the patient or from other persons whose tissue corresponds to the recipient. Since one of the most common uses of cells and tissues is precisely the transplantation of cells and tissues, the new law has established the existence of a stem cell donor register, haematopiesis, with the aim of enabling the finding of a donor for patients who need to transplant haematopiesis stem cells and who do not have a responding donor within family members. Today, a whole medical branch has been developed that uses stem cells to treat various diseases. Over 70 different diseases are successfully treated. The human organism is a coherent mechanism in which extremely small changes can lead to the occurrence of the disease or take it out of a state of balance, but the medicine progresses, and even when that happens, there are ways to return to balance. The provisions of this law encourage the development of the health care of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, by carefully analysing the above-mentioned views, I have proposed Amendment 2 to which Article 2 is complemented by Article 4. Mr. Minister, you have no one to justify yourself to, because you have proven yourself by your work and proven yourself every day more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42346	Thank you. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42347	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, I have submitted Amendment 2 to the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues that defines the application of this law by adding a new position relating to further affirmation and development of our medical institutions in Serbia. In my first presentation today, I was talking about the results of the work of the Ministry of Health, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I, Mr. Minister, ask you to carry on with a really full couple. I know you have found a catastrophic situation in our health institutions, but we must work together to improve the quality of life of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I really want to touch this third law we're discussing today, this is about the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, and the results of the MUP when it comes to the fight against drug trafficking. During only the first 10 months of last year, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, members of the ministry have achieved truly impressive results. In the first 10 months of 2017, police seized 3,44 tons of different narcotics, as well as 342,303 opiates in pieces. It is in the report by the MUP, which was delivered to all MPs and that the public could also meet. The interior ministry, headed by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, only during the previous 2017, seized 3.27 tonnes of marijuana, 50kg of amphetamines, has discovered 33 laboratories, one laboratory in Belgrade. Video surveillance has been introduced in all primary schools in Belgrade and our students, our parents, our teachers, our directors, come from the Rakovica municipality, I can say that they are really calm, because they know that video surveillance is tied to all primary schools and can really be calm. Please continue and do not stop with these legal solutions, it is important that we adopt such quality laws and proposals, not only because these are just our obligations to EU membership for Chapter 28 and Chapter 24, when it comes to narcotics, but in order for the citizens of this country to really live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42348	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Professor. My lord.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42349	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law, which reads, to read it – that the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to health affirmation. Again, for the sake of our viewers who are following the congregation debate in these afternoons, I would like to read only briefly what is covered by Article 2. Article 2 states that the provisions of this law apply to stem cells, peripheral blood haematoposis, umbilical cord blood and bone marrow, as well as to the provisions of this law apply to the procedures for the donation, acquisition and testing of human cells and tissues used in the manufacture of products intended for human use. So far, my fellow MPs have made clear all the positive effects of this law. In fact, this law is a medical strategic law, a system law governing this area of cells and tissues, unfortunately which has not been regulated so far, and there have been appropriate problems in this segment of health care. The adoption of this law is resolved in accordance with the medical state-of-the-art doctrine and standards is governed by an area that, of course, will have the ultimate effect of affirming and improving the health of our citizens and that will indeed be resolved for patients whose only method of treatment, the medical method of treatment, or the saving of life, is one segment of health care in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42350	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Here's my colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42351	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to another member because I wanted to further define this law and I would particularly refer to medical services, because by adding this to Article 2 I would like to encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a reference to medical services. What I want to point out here is that, I will say why I will first of all vote in the voting day and vote in favour of this good law, because I believe in this government, I believe in the competent ministry, because in the previous period they have shown that they work responsibly, they are responsible for leading politics and are working primarily for the benefit of Serbian citizens. On this occasion, I would like to point out and say that I come from Kruševec and I would disagree with Mr Marinkovic where he says certain cities are preceded. As Mr. Gasic said in 2012 when he took office as Mayor of Kruševec, nothing is good enough for Kruševac if it is not good enough. We have shown this in the previous period and the minister will confirm that since early 2018 we have invested more than 145 million dinars in the general hospital, that many offices, many buildings in the hospital have been reconstructed, that many apparatus have arrived, of which four ultrasound apparatus, new equipment for maximum surgery, surgery for gynecology and that it is in the design and equipment of an angular hall. Therefore, it is all enough that the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Kruševec give even more support not only to SNS, Mr Vukic, but also to this government and the message that we will continue even faster, even stronger, even better. Minister, continue, as I said we will continue to support all these good laws because they are in favour of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42352	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42353	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with my associates and the second amendment, I will speak of the results of the work of the Ministry of Health, whose head you are on. We have results that are respectable and I will deliver the results for 2016. 184 million dinars have been allocated for health projects. In KBC Kragujevac, I'm talking about 2016, he started working oncology patients' modern air therapy apparatus thanks to which waiting lists are reduced to a minimum. The machine in Kragujevac was obtained by the Serbian government, which allocated funds to repair the situation in radiology, or air therapy, and that about 800 million dinars were allocated for these purposes. Furthermore, in 2016, in the renovated section of the General Hospital in Loznica, the UC was opened where patients from Loznica, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, LJubovija and also the coastal part of Republika Srpska will be taken care of. Patients will be available throughout the entire year for 10 doctors and 14 nurses and the service is equipped with state-of-the-art appliances where patients will be able to make both ultra sound and ECG and X-ray and gastroscopy and colonoscopy and laboratory. The money for reconstruction was provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, which has invested 70m dinars in the General Hospital in Loznica over the past two years. In the context of the implementation of ISIS with operational work, I am talking about 2016, the National College of the Ministry of Health started by which citizens can schedule an examination with their selected physician of general practice, pediatrician, dentist or gynecologist. Fifteen hospitals in Serbia have charged the keys to 21 Sanitary vehicles and there are many more, but I will do so according to the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42354	Thank you very much. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Veroljub Matic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP, doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milovan Drecun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Desanka Repac submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42355	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome Mr. Minister with his associates. I'd like to say something. A foreign journalist once said – Serbia is a country where war never stops, free health care, and treatment is paid. I'd like to refresh my memory of my delinquent colleagues for a comment from the government, Mr. Minister. This statement of journalists was made when the health system was completely destroyed during the ruling of the DS, especially in the AP Vojvodina where it remained the longest to rule. Thanks to the government of Aleksandr Vukic, negative processes have stopped, and with the continuation of the new government, the health institution has gone towards improvement. The government put health care at the top of the line. At this point, we are talking about laws dealing with top medicine, which is now in Serbia, and only four years ago Serbian health care was at the very bottom. I'd like to say something about this law, about the provisions of this law. Hundreds of people around the world suffer from severe diseases where all kinds of treatment have been tested. Only then remains that the organ whose function has ceased to be replaced by another. Human organ and tissue transplants have been practiced for more than half a century.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42356	Thank you very much. (Desanka Repac: I haven't even started.) You have two minutes. Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Messenger Tian the Davidite. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42357	Thank you, Chairman. I come from one of 17 Belgrade municipalities, from Lazarec, in which, thanks to the responsible and dedicated work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the city of Belgrade and the management of the city municipality of Lazarec, since 2012, is significantly invested in the modernisation of health. The health home of Dr. Djordje Kovacevic in Lazarevec has existed since April 1953, and nothing has been invested in it for many years. In the past three years, ambulances have been adapted to local communities in Dudovica, Baroševec and Umkovec, Great Cranians and Rudovci. The total investment amounted to about four million dinars. The health ministry and the city of Belgrade have donated in the last four years to the House of Health in Lazarevec three sanitary vehicles and one passenger vehicle. It is currently changing to an exhausting carpentry at the health home central building, thanks to the donation of the European Bank, the city of Belgrade and the city municipality of Lazarec. This investment is about 30 million dinars. The long-standing idea of moving the maternity home to a new facility has finally been achieved. By the end of the year, Lazarevec will open its first non-patient maternity home in Belgrade's territory in the last 40 years, a surface of about 1,300 square metres. This investment is about 150 million dinars. Also, during 2017, central heating was improved in the House of Health, by building a substation financed by the founders of Belgrade. Since the SNS came to power, the rational use of funds has significantly contributed to improving health services and creating better conditions for the lives of our citizens. In Voting Day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42358	Thank you, colleague of David's. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42359	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for this ministry led by Mr. Loncar, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, the results speak, the traffic light said, the MPs have already discussed it. The provisions of this law, when implemented, will also affect the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the progress of the general medical conditions which, in addition, provide for the healthy mental life of each individual. If Milojko Pantic, called a lunatic, had enjoyed the general medical conditions of this amendment, he would not have told SNS MPs and some other parties on 19 July 2018, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of Serbia, that they were paranoid, uncivilised, nationalist pyromans, I quote. Let the MP of the former regime, who is here across from me, stand up and say when and what member of the SNS was doing, especially when the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic did it. If Milojko Panic, a crazy woman, had enjoyed the general medical conditions, he would not have said it. It's about, respected citizens of Serbia, a simple one of them, and an even bigger one is the one who feeds him such uncivilised and false data. Unfortunately, the doctors can't help him anymore. That is why this law and general medical conditions, Mr. Minister and Vice-President, are very important, so that the bastards of this kind of birth, such as the bitanga Milojko Pantic, and the reputation of the People's Republic of Serbia, the MPs of the ruling coalition and the state of Serbia in general, will not be born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42360	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word has been issued by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, your associates, I will neither praise you nor mock you. I think that all three laws, the ones we present now and prepare to adopt, are a place where we shouldn't deal with politics and a place where we shouldn't share, or that we can't doubt that these laws will only be adopted by someone else and that we condemn others. We have to educate all of us. Yesterday I was telling you what my doubts were, I was offering solutions to how to drive them away, and now I'm offering another solution. As soon as the law is over, people from the profession to all the media, to go, to explain, that what happened to us isn't what happened when the anti-vacation lobby was harao, when everyone in the media heard it, everyone talked, and only the waist was dead, silent and silent. Only if we do so after the adoption of these laws can we expect those people who are sick to have a greater chance of surviving and making their lives a decent life. About the third law, just a few words. So, both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Social Affairs, all together, all the forces to work, to talk, not politically colored, professionally colored, scientifically colored, that we don't happen to realize the program promotes in whatever media, printed, written or otherwise, the one who won the program, and then draws the line of drugs, because that trait he pulled is going to draw us to the point of undermining, that we're not in Serbia. So, I support these laws, I think they're good, but let's not leave a dead letter. It won't stay, but I think we can all do this together, and the government and those of the opposition who think like this and those who don't think like this, so they can bring something that's good for our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42362	Thanks, buddy. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42363	I'll just remind you, as far as the antivaccinal lobby campaign is concerned, if you can, go back and see. We couldn't get word in the media, because the breaking news on all the media was people from the antivaccinal lobby and, worst of all, they abused children and put them in front of us. Professional opinion, the opinion of experts could not appear until the end of the news, nor could it get into the news. The explanation was – we were in a hurry, we weren't there. So it's just for reality and for the fact that I do. This must never happen to us again, because this campaign made our children die, people die. I hope someone learned a lesson from this. And this has nothing to do with any politics, this is about life and death. As for life and death, regarding psychoactive substances and drugs, where we formed this commission. Please, everyone, now we know what the problem is, we know why the kids are leaving to try out these psychoactive substances. One reason is curiosity, that's one reason, and another reason is because they don't have an alternative, they don't have other things to deal with, third thing, to get into society, because it's something "in" and fourth thing is – problems in the family. Now we all need to talk loudly about the reasons and work on it, give them an alternative, not think about it, but deal with other things and these things that we can fix and deal with our children. Because children can never be guilty. Kids are never guilty of anything. It's only their parents' fault. That's what science proved.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42364	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42365	The Honorable Chairman, when I said about this anti-vaccinal lobby, on the Health Committee, was the Secretary of State, Mr Mahmutovic, we all agreed and talked, but, Minister, I am the opposition, you are the power, there is a knife and a cake in you. It's you who can influence the media not to let us be in the 29th minute, we who think differently and wait for our children to die to silence those who said they shouldn't be doing it. That's what we have to do. We stand in the mood to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42366	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word has Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42367	I have to tell you that we tried to point it out to the media, to the editors, but they said it was pressure on them and that they wouldn't do it like that. So, please, see if that was the case. We went out the most professionally and said -- people, there's no study for this, there's no evidence of this, don't do this, there's going to be these things happening to you, and they said -- you don't have the right to interfere with us in the media, that you're doing editorial policy for us, that you tell us what we're going to put at the beginning of the news and what we don't do. So that's what you need to hear from here. Let's all go together, when such an action happens, that we all get up from here and distract the media – gentlemen, we want you to deal with this topic in that way and that way. Have we ever done that? No, we didn't, but we all reacted daily and now we say – let's save one life all together, let's go out here all together, we'll always find those who say – well, we won't, because we're waiting for something to happen, we don't like Loncar, we don't like him, and we won't because Loncar suggested it or what Petrovic suggested or what Markovic suggested. That's who we are. That's our essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42368	Thank you, Minister. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42369	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, we are talking about one of the good laws of human law these days. In the past, the Republic of Serbia has brought forth great experts in the field of medicine, known worldwide, and today they are well-known both in our country and in the world. This year, VMA will mark 45 years since the first allogeneic bone marrow transplant of a related donor, which was a pioneering venture in the Balkans. The VMA transplant centre has been a full member of the Transplant Association since 1996. The provisions of this law shall not apply to reproductive cells and tissues, cells and tissues of embryos and fetuses. The task of all of us today, and also in the future, is that, and especially health workers, we inform citizens about what the organ transplant law means, and what the assumed consent means. The assumed consent implies that all citizens are in some way organ donors, but that in situations of brain death, family consent must certainly be sought. In 2015, there were 18 donors in Serbia. Thirty-two kidney transplants, seven liver transplants, and five heart transplants have been performed. This way we get more donors, more lives saved than people with healthy organs, but the stroke was fatal to their end. I must say that the proposal for this law has passed all procedures, procedural actions, and the SPC has been positively expressed for its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42370	The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42371	I thank the chairman. Dear Serbian citizens, the adoption of laws will create conditions for promoting giving and raising citizens' awareness of the importance of giving, as well as for organising jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, thus improving the quality of health care in accordance with modern standards of medical science and practice, as well as with EU regulations in this area, so that the area of human cells and tissues is based in a way that protects the interests of dignity, the principle of solidarity, medical justification, security and the principle of equality. In order to establish a high level of safety and security in the field of human cells and tissues, the law defines the role of health institutions in this area by detailing the fundamental activity of the bank of human cells and tissues, defining it as a health care unit as the government's plan for networks that carry out the work of processing, preserving, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues, so that it can also carry out the tasks of obtaining and testing cells and tissues and importing and exporting cells and tissues. The establishment of quality in this area is necessary to specify rules and standards that will be unique in Serbia's territory and ensure a uniform level of health care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The law will allow the Republic's waiting list to be reduced for individual tissues, to increase the number of tissue donors, and to reduce the number of patients on the waiting list. By regulating this area, it will have a positive effect on patients who are waiting for tissue transplants and will provide better results of transplants and progress in medical protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42372	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42373	I thank the chairman, respected ministers, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, today I would like to talk to you about a special hospital called Ozren near Soko Banja. The hospital treats pulmonary and ocular diseases. Today, the hospital has modern diagnostics and professional staff, and provides modern treatment for non-specific and specific pulmonary diseases. This hospital building was built in 1938 and up to a few years ago it was horrible to get into it because you could have had a ceiling fall on your head, and then the patients were released early for treatment at home because of the cold. However, the situation today is quite different. For two years 2016/2017 The year was set aside from the Ministry of Health seven million dinars for remont boilers and the rehabilitation of the heating system. In addition, in this hospital, through various donations, management, hospital management has managed to acquire 100 new beds and 100 new mattresses, which is in any case to improve the comfort of patients in this hospital. We must not ignore the investment that comes from the Ministry of Health, which refers to equipment in this hospital, so in 2018, in these six months more than seven million were allocated, of which more than five million for... . And for the reconstruction of the oxygen network, which is very important. This equipment is actually the heart that provides health care to patients with these specific pulmonary disorders at the Osren Special Hospital. Over a few thousand patients pass yearly at this hospital and she employs over 150 workers. Certainly, if further reconstruction and investment were carried out in this hospital, perhaps a greater number of patients could serve, but at present because of a situation related to comfort rooms and bathrooms is not in a position to receive a maximum number of patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42374	Thank you very much. The People's MP Ivana Stoiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milena Turk has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Dragan Veljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42375	Thank you, Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, as well as the potential in the context of the proposed law, the area of human cells and tissues has so far been regulated by the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation, as well as by sublegal acts adopted under that law. However, the current law governing the area of transplantation did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating jobs in human cells and tissues for human use, and neither were the conditions under which these jobs could be done, which produced poor years of practice to carry out procedures in health institutions in this area, but without defining the conditions at the republican level as they would be carried out. One of the faults was that they were not clearly defined institutions that could be a human tissue bank, which is why they were not even formed. The proposed law removes the identified weaknesses to the greatest extent, and defines in a precise way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the area, as well as the conditions that human tissue banks should meet, and also simplified the procedure for issuing authorisations to human cell and tissue health institutions, as the exposure of the information system in that area. Also, the bill requires the adoption of a human organ transplant programme involving both human cells and tissues and which will be unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which will define clear procedures and procedures concerning the organisation, teams and financing of the overall process of human organs, human cells and tissues. All these and other alternative solutions have defined the SNS parliamentary group to support these and other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42376	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Borka Grubor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42377	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Human Cells and Tissues in a precise and clear manner defines which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which can be banks of human tissues including all the conditions they have to fulfil to obtain a permit. The quality of services in cell and tissue areas depends directly on the conditions in which action is carried out. Namely, all planned institutions will have to have adequate equipment, adequate space, as well as educated healthcare professionals and health associates, which directly affects the increase in quality in this area. As the standards of medical science in this area are very high and expensive, the primary goal is to define health institutions that will be able to meet the above criteria for testing, processing, storage of large numbers of cells and tissues. It is necessary to define a register of progenitors of haematoposis cells that enables the finding of incompatible donors and the provision of transplant cells. The establishment of inspection supervision under the Biomedicine Administration shall ensure the continuity of professional supervision in the field of biomedicine, which is specific due to the daily introduction of new methods and procedures of work, and the need to monitor by experts with the greatest experience in the practice followed by the contemporary achievements of science in this area. The need for certain professional terms to be defined differently and more precisely has also been established in order to fully harmonise domestic law in this area with EU law as recommended by the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42378	Thank you. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42379	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill aims to further define the bill, as well as to point out the importance of improving health care. Health care needs to be constantly invested because of the constant progression of medicine. The staff must be nurtured and directed to specialization, so doctors can perfect themselves and to have specialists from different areas. We're well aware that we can't get a specialist's doctor overnight. From the moment the specialization started, to the moment the doctor finished specialization went from four to six years. According to information I have, from the director of the health home in Aleksinc, seven specializations have been distributed by the Ministry of Health with you ministers headed a few years ago. I must point out that you approved the first specializations in Aleksinco after many years. This says that health care and professional staff were not meant at all during the DOS period. The head of the ministry was supposed to be looking after the needs of homes of health and hospitals, in terms of professional staff, not to get into a situation where we have homes of health and hospitals without specialists working. So, once again, I commend the Ministry and you, Minister Loncar, and I ask that you continue to approve of the new specializations that we need, especially for the General Hospital in Aleksinec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42380	Thank you. The People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Sonja Vlahović submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42381	Thank you. Serbia's government is investing in healthcare, and the sector's reform is one of the most difficult and demanding. It is invested, and will continue, on the basis of the good state of public finances. We have the opportunity to help the children, the elderly, the sick. A lot of equipment was bought, renovated, hospitals, a clinical center was opened. And that's how we're gonna keep doing it, correcting and improving the state of the art. In Belgrade, the Institute of Oncology and Radiology opened a new Oncology Two Hospital, which exclusively deals with radiation therapy. The institute received one of the apparatus for which the Serbian government allocated 700m dinars for four. The reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia is planned, followed by the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina and Kragujevac. Dear Minister Lončar, I want to finally commend the draft laws that will resolve bad practice from the past, reduce waiting lists, because the laws systematically regulate the area of organ donation, cells and tissues in accordance with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42382	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Radmilo Kostic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Studenka Kovacevic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42383	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable ministers, progress in the field of health care, when we talk about the General Hospital in Bora, except for the upcoming reconstruction that I was already talking about in the previous amendment, it could also be about modernising the equipment provided by the Ministry of Health. It's about 20 million dinars worth of equipment. Our hospital now has a new radiological ultrasound, neurological ultrasound, decommissioning chamber and cytostatic preparation, as well as an orthopedic motor system. In addition, new methods of work have been introduced, and some new interventions are now being done at the General Hospital in Bor. Among other things, there are also those who, due to conditions, have not been available to patients for some time. So again on orthopedics, hip prosthetics are being performed, neurology has formed a stroke unit, surgery has introduced a new method of surgery of hemorrhoids, gynecology of laparoscopic surgery, two doctors have acquired a license, ophthalmology is being subject to a new method of cataract surgery, and this is the only one in a wider environment. Then new methods were introduced in the field of microbiology and transfusiology. We are a regional centre for the collection and treatment of medical waste with all the permits, for two districts, Borski and Zaječarski and regional center for the control of tuberculosis. And as you can see progress that means a lot to patients who are using General Hospital services in Bor, since these services have a significant impact on the quality of life of our citizens. Continue to improve the work of health institutions and care for the health of our population, and you will certainly have our great support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42384	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go, Comrade Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42385	I thank the chairman. Honorable Minister Loncar and his associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the Bill on Human Cells and Tissues lays down the conditions for achieving quality and safety in the area of human cells and human tissues. Control over the implementation of this law and the implementation of certain tasks, state administrations and in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of tasks in this area. The proposed law first defines in a clear, precise way which health institutions can apply for jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as which institutions may be banks of human tissues, including all conditions that must be met in order to obtain a permit. The bill has laid down a simplified procedure for issuing health institutions for carrying out jobs in the field of human cells and tissues, as well as for establishing a single information system. The need for certain professional terms to be defined differently and more precisely, and in order to fully harmonise domestic rights in this area, with EU law, in the way that the EU rules it. Mr. Lonchar, once again I want to express my respect and admiration for what your Ministry has done in this period, it's the Nis Clinical Center, the gamma knife, the best students are admitted to work, so they no longer show that you're the best that it's a flaw. The same thing that makes me happy as a man, that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic announced an increase in salary to health workers by the end of the year, and drastically. I think those people take care of us when we're sick and we have to take care of them. Anyway, thank you for everything you've done. This is a great law, and I will support it in the voting day, and my respected colleagues, please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42386	Thank you, colleague Tarbuk. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Miloevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42387	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Human Cells and Tissues is based on priority interests in preserving health and life and protecting fundamental human rights, donor and recipient. In line with the above, and with the legal provisions, I would like to inform the esteemed present that the municipality of Arangelovac has significantly improved this area over the past period. Recently, works have been completed on the polyclinical part of the General Hospital in Arangelovac. The project is worth more than 500,000 euros, and the newly built space is the size of 700 m2 that will have diagnostic surgery and we hope the most modern conditions for patient care. A major fundraising and rehabilitation campaign has been launched. Almost all the businessmen from Arangelovac joined in. The municipality of Arangelovac has singled out about 40 million dinars so far, of which 24 million through the Bekament Foundation and 16 million through direct investment. The businessmen collected about 30 million dinars, and the citizens had the opportunity to donate via text messages. Recently, our municipality received a diagnostic scanner, which is why we will be among the best equipped municipalities in Serbia, and we expect to open a polyclinic and release into the work of scanners as soon as possible. I'm taking this opportunity to thank the Ministry of Health and Mr. Lonchar for the great help we've been given and without which we couldn't achieve all this. In addition to the polyclinic work, an organization was launched to plan a complete reconstruction of the entire General Hospital in Arangelovac. In 2017, a major project for the reconstruction of the City Hospital, which the local self-government paid 100,000 euros. The whole project with all its accompanying equipment should cost about sevenm euros, and negotiations with the health ministry are under way to expand the project to build another facility, raising the total value to 10m euros. If these plans were to be implemented, the Arangelovac would resolve the issue of patient care and care in the next few decades with all the necessary equipment and rooms. From this point on, I believe that the investment and improvement of the health sector since the arrival of SNS to power has been given to the importance that it has never, not only in Arangelovac, but in all of Serbia, and I deeply believe that this trend will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42388	Thank you, fellow Miloevich. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42389	Thank you, Chairman. On several occasions, we have had the opportunity to hear what are all the positive effects that the laws on human cells and tissues bear, and we have enough reason to mention the positive results that will affect future transplants, the work of the Ministry and how the quality of health is raised in our country. That law accurately and decadently determines the quality and safety of the application of human cells and tissues. Article 1 defines fully how this is collected, the warehouse, as distributed, tested and processed by human cells and tissues for further application in humans. When there are multiple recipients at the same time, the Republic's list of recipients and, of course, the fair consistency of the application of those organs shall be taken into account. Taking human tissues and cells is enabled and, I repeat, only if the person has given written or oral consent to it. It is also possible to do so from the deceased if it has given consent during life or if it is his family, that is, family members have given that consent and, of course, it is necessary for many diagnostics to be done on medical criteria. What is also important, and what I find very significant is that criminal provisions have also been established. When does that seem? We know and we are aware of what a moral effect it is and what human values it is when it is given tissue, but it is undeniable that it is punishable by the law of any kind of subsequent take on the transplant of some organs. It is also punishable, of course, to the work of institutions that do not have a defined way of doing these duties, i.e. processing, storage, organ protection and distribution, and it is also punishable if the institution does not report any changes to the Biomedicine Administration. Dear Minister, I thank you for all your efforts, as well as for your team, which you have implemented in order for us to pass such a law, and I have no doubt that we will do so in the day of the vote, because this will help many families and their members and make them happy. And when is someone who's sick happy? Only if she's healthy, and that's all she wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42390	Thank you. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted the title above Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Happy Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42391	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, to achieve results in the field of medicine certainly cannot be ignored, they are great, but I would ask all my colleagues to lower these tensions a little bit. When the Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation was passed six years ago, some colleagues also talked about this as something that was absolutely unattainable. Life and progress in the field of medicine is going very fast, so even after I don't know how long I'm going to see that this isn't the best thing that could happen. But to go forward, it goes. The tissue transplant is already being done for about 50 years and many people, if it hadn't been for this, might have been alive today. Modern surgery is no longer just what heals and removes diseased organs, but it has become a situation to replace the diseased organs with completely healthy organs and that is good. Perhaps even in a more aggressive way, we should do a promotion of human organ transplants and replacements, but what the SRS is generally opposed to is, to point out once again, that assumed consent. Several members of this law speak of how and how they can deviate from the rules. If we had just accepted the basic principle that it must be written consent, then we would have avoided many other things. In explaining these legal proposals, the minister said that this is a harmonisation with European directives and, to remind you and to show you practically, this bill has 263 pages, of which there are 24 related to the bill, and all other reasons, clarifications and these tables that work to prove to the European Union that we are firm, that is, you are firmly on that path. It's something we don't need, which we need more energy to spend on how to provide a better health system for our citizens, not to prove it to someone. There is another danger here, one member of the law predicts that we must send reports to certain bodies of the European Union. It seems to me that from the moment of the birth of a Serbian citizen, we will be obliged to report there somewhere in Brussels, or somewhere, we don't need it, we don't want it, it's a job for nothing – a job for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42392	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42393	Now, now, since you're going to solve the problem of transplants with these three laws, then it would be good for the Ministry to conclude two, three of these proposals, and then a little bit here to talk about it and solve the waiting list problem, to stop waiting for the examination of specialists, I don't know, dermatologist, oncologist, ophthalmologist, to cut down a few years to wait for cataract surgery. You know, we've been listening to the story of these colleagues today as if they didn't live in Serbia or as if they didn't know anyone sick in the state of Serbia. There are a lot of problems here, gentlemen dear, that are not even close to solving. Someone said they don't treat kids with SMS anymore. Well, unfortunately, they're being treated. Our president, two, three years ago, spoke first of this at the conference and drew attention to Minister Lonchar that there should be rare diseases in our country, that we have doctors who are able to do this, that much less cost to obtain these appropriate equipment than patients are sent there selectively. Who's the one who's going to say - the one with the rare disease can go to the white world somewhere, and this one can't? You know, whenever we're in a situation where someone has to say that this one can, this one can't, our experience is that we have to wonder what it is that interferes with and what defines that someone can, someone can't. Is it a personal relationship, is it money, is it a relationship with that one over there, so where do these people go for treatment? It's in different countries, in different clinics. Is there anyone out there who made a deal, so that's where he's sending people? You know, everything you do is highly doubtful and don't try to convince us otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42394	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42395	The issue of organ transplants enters the most intimate sphere of human life and the integrity of man, the personality of every individual. Now, while we are discussing here, Mr Marinkovic, who knows how many Serbian citizens, those who deal with agriculture are in the field, after everything that has happened to them because of the weather and floods in certain cities, and the ravines and those who deal with blackberries and other fruits and vegetables, are saving what can be saved, and they have no idea what they're talking about here, nor will they look at television, you don't think they'll be reading "The Official Messenger" and seeing what their rights are in it, but one day all Serbian citizens will wake up, probably on Tuesday or Wednesday, or when the law comes into effect, with the fact that there are so-called. Presumed consent for organ donors, and Serbian citizens did not make such a statement. You say, well, we got so many percent in the election. Yes, gentlemen of the government, but then you got those percentages when you applied for donor cards. You have not mentioned at all that this problem will be solved in a way that introduces some assumed consent, because if you said so, Serbian citizens might not vote for you in that number. You know, the fact that someone at all talked about it yesterday, and now I'm saying it, they have to think about it and that there's some kind of administration showing up and giving the express order that they don't want to do it, if they don't want it to hurt the integrity of every man in this country. That is why you will be faced with this and Serbian radicals have been repeating it for several days, that soon this law will experience its changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42396	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42397	Here, I'm finishing up, Mr. Marinkovic, why didn't you do it, to improve the lack of organs, what is done in hospitals in the world, to cross family members at clinics that are going to do it, not a family that is a donor to the one who is sick from his family, but someone else who also needs help? This is done at the Achibade clinic in Turkey, in many other clinics in the world, and you have resorted to copying the law and the European Union and you will see that this will come upon a great condemnation of Serbian citizens. All of this could have been solved differently, in the way many other countries did.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42398	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Dr Daniel Stojadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Danica Bukvic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42399	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(1) of point 5 of the proposal for a law on human cells and tissues. The amendment proposes using a scientific definition, a widely accepted organ definition. In addition to the reasons for the adoption of this law, which has been highlighted in the debate so far, I would like to say that it was necessary for the new law to define professional terms differently and more precisely, and in order to harmonise domestic law in this area with European Union law. Also, I would like to point out once again the role of the Biomedicine Authority, which as a renowned institution will conduct inspection supervision through well-educated biomedicine inspectors in these institutions. The new legal solution also affects the reduction of costs for health institutions in the area of cells and tissues because they will now not have to apply for renewal of the permit every five years. In the current law, inspection supervision is not clearly defined, and this is certainly urgent, given the sensitive problem this law regulates. Our SPS parliamentary group will support this, as well as other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42400	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Prof. Dubravko Bojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42401	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the light of these laws, or better to state the legal proposals, have stated that the applicable law in this area did not recognise the importance of defining and regulating the work of carrying out the transplants, as well as the conditions under which this activity could be carried out, which resulted in the inability to issue authorisations for the work of certain health institutions. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS is asking for special act or regulation to determine which medical institutions in which each body can be transplanted, individually, but based on objective, professional and scientific potentials, not on personal sympathy, vanity, ignorance, or perhaps hatred. I'll remind you, hate is the worst state of human consciousness, and you're broadcasting it as a system carrier today in the National Assembly. I will add that the transplant, a professional, scientific and therapeutic treatment method, carried out in Serbia under impossible conditions of economic sanctions, is very, very successful in the mid-90s. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all of you as well as the general public of Serbia, with the question – Can there be better references to someone's work than the fact that these transplanted patients still live their other lives today? These were the great exploits at the time, and you were fascinated by some other exploits and heroes at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42402	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Rose Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42403	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill defines the role and tasks of the Biomedicine Authority. Also, one of the government's obligations is to keep a record of serious adverse events and serious side effects. In line with the above, they would ask you, who suffers the consequences of adverse events that are not specific, such as poor storage, or handling, and which are measured by actions and actions, which are carried out so that the same adverse events do not happen again. We have also seen that all measures are being taken to reduce the damage, but not the consequences for those who have caused the damage. Then, under the import and export of water cells, the Director of the Biomedicine Administration is authorised for each individual case of imports, i.e. exports of human cells. We believe that besides the directors here, it is also necessary to include the expert commission, or the whole team of people, in order to make a common decision on which permission they will grant. Then, also with imports and exports, I would point out that the contracts covering this area as well as the financing are unknown.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42404	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović.. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42405	Thank you. I don't know now if the minister is willing to hear the voice of the people and hear the voice of the parents who are at great risk of using psychoactive substances in schools. I used to listen well to him when he said that there were about three reasons why kids use drugs, it's a ticket to get into society, curiosity, docks. I'll tell you, Mr. Minister, that's not why, that's not the real reason. The real reasons are because the country of Serbia is a transit country for the smuggling of psychoactive substances, and for this reason higher drugs appear here than they do in other countries. Then, the production and availability of these toxic, synthetic drugs is very widespread, and above all, it's about the most sensitive groups, social groups, they're children from the fourth grade of primary school and beyond. We know that these synthetic drugs and poisons that a few of our children have died in the last maybe a month, that they've been working with nice icons, and in fine bags, etc. The parents are not only responsible, and I want you to take full responsibility as a state, and as the Ministry of Health, along with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education, the most beautiful of you, as a parent and as a member of the SRS, please, will be your responsibility for any case that happens in the country of Serbia with the outcome of death. If this isn't enough for you and if you don't take this as the most serious appeal of society, citizens, mothers, parents, then we can really say that you're a soulless man, that you have no sensitivity for what you're doing. Please don't. It's very ugly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42406	Please, your time is up. Thank you. Dr Dragana Barisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42407	A colleague, Marinkovic, was injured by a member of 107. Namely, the dignity of the National Assembly. This morning, I've been listening for ten hours to usually fellow MPs who are now saying they are simply insulting the dignity of this assembly, trying to lead Serbian citizens astray. On this occasion, I felt myself called the mother of a 15-year-old girl. In fact, we as parents have to take care of our children. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and other competent services are working for the benefit of our children and for the benefit of Serbian citizens, but first of all, we as parents need to know where our children are going, where they spend their time, what they're doing. We can't blame the state of Serbia, the Wolf and the others for why the children are on the street for up to one, two nights. We have to be responsible as parents, first of all, for those children who brought us into the world, who we gave birth to, we simply can't look for reasons in someone else. I believe that the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, are working responsibly, but first and foremost, parents have to take matters into their own hands and take care of their children. Therefore, a colleague must consider what she is saying in this home and the citizens of Serbia should not be led astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42408	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but as you could see all day long, I have appealed to all MPs to have more correct discussions, in the sense that they are not insulting the minister, really, without any need, but unfortunately it did not bear fruit. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is the Verse of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42409	Mr. Marinkovic, listen to some MPs, and listen to yourself. Who has now offended Zlatibor Lonchar in the last few minutes? Who said anything about him? So, we're listening to praises from the MPs of the government today...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42410	Only if you can member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42411	Article 27(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42412	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42413	Please. I could have said this eventually, and if I didn't say it, then you could have given me a warning because there's no time to take it away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42414	I have no intention, absolutely, to tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42415	Well, please, then don't pretend you're not. So, praises on this side, that's legitimate. Criticisms on this side, you'd also have to take it as legitimate. Today you broke up in a very delicate discussion of the replica between colleagues Martinovic and me, when he compared Vojislav Seselj and Zlatibor Lončar and said that we are angry when someone says that Seselj is a war criminal and that we, on the other hand, say that Zlatibor Lončar is death. Now I really have to explain it, and I've been waiting for this opportunity. Dr Vojislav Seselj has the verdict of the UN tribunal's judicial verdict, whatever the tribunal is, where it does not say that he is a war criminal, where he has not committed a war crime and no one has the right to call him a war criminal. We asked Zlatibor Loncar for his resignation, and we asked him to resign, and Meho Omerovic resigned for a minor offense. Let him resign and ask the authorities nicely. Here, let Mr. Gasic look for his file, which is that Vukadinovic, or whatever his name is, copied and shared, so let it be determined what the real truth is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42416	Thank you. Everyone knows what the real truth is. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) - Yes, you do. Well, you know Mr. Loncar has run the Ministry for two years without a single mistake, so we all know. The word is made by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42417	Thank you, Chairman. I reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure after my colleague, Nikolic Vukajlovic, was exposed. I believe that the members of 106 and 108 are injured, or I would like to invite you to the application of Article 108 but also to the application of Article 27. It doesn't matter that this member is already advertised. You are like the chairman of this Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you some things from my colleague's presentation, which you'll see for yourself that he's been injured by the Rules of Procedure. First of all, the question is whether the minister is willing to hear the voice of the people and to hear the MPs, so as far as I can see, the minister is here in the hall all the time along with the MPs who are doing their job here was also in the debate on the principle of these bill proposals and now, in the debate in particular. The psychoactive substances are not currently on the agenda in particular, so a member of 106 is injured, and I believe that perhaps the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because saying that the minister is responsible for every subsequent death that occurs in Serbia from psychotic substances is, above all, excessive for the discussion in the National Assembly. I'm not going to ask you to vote on this, but I'm just asking you that the discussion is not going in any other direction, but only in the direction of the debate in particular of the draft law that is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-07-20-0.u42418	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. I just wanted to have a democratic debate, of course, argumentated. I agree with you that what your colleague said is really out of line. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Jelena Žarić Kovacevic: No. Thank you. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue our work Monday at 10:00 p.m. I thank the minister with his associates. I thank all the MPs for their participation and for their work. I wish you all a nice weekend. Thank you.
