ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34791	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions for continuing work. We continue the search in detail on the Third Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Military Education. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34792	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 2 of Article 5, which reads: "Military Professional Training, within the meaning of this law, involves training programmes for Serbia's reserve officers, candidates for entry into professional military service and foreign citizens." The amendment asked us to delete the words "Serbian armies", as I proposed the text of this amendment refers to the Army of Serbia. There are criteria and conditions for selecting candidates for the Serbian Army's reserve officer's course, both for men and women. With this, there is no nepotism, no party pressure, but the choice of the best, most capable, both psychologically and physically, to get the best rating of candidates' ability. This and the selection of the best candidates would fill both the form and the essence, not the percentage of so many women, so many men. When selecting candidates for the school of senior staff from primary school, should the commission assess only psychological, security and knowledge-checking, such as in Article 47(2), rather than what is very important – physical ability. By adopting this law, what will happen to the third largest organisation system of Serbia's Army, which is the KZO - a command for training and training of officers, in particular Panchevo. Basic training and other specialist centres that have trained officers by 2007, what will happen to the staff from these centres. Why the diplomats of military academics write the defence manager, not how an officer of the Serbian Army should, as it was when Serbia had the right and organized military to the five-eyed coup and the yellow revolution. For example, in a 250th rocket brigade division from December last, until March this year, it left, perhaps the minister doesn't know, but by his will six young officers. I ask you, what defined them in that act? Well, we assume that this standard of living...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34793	Thank you. Time. A Member of the 2nd Amendment was sent by a Member of the Parliament of Alexander Belačić. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34794	Dear Ministers, we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted a large number of amendments to improve the proposed legislative solution and during preparations for this discussion at the Ministry of Defence site I have found an interesting statement by your predecessor stating that the Republic of Serbia is sending troops to peacekeeping missions to improve relations with the EU, while maintaining military neutrality. I believe that this statement is quite unrealistic and that it is impossible to progress towards the EU today, to join the EU tomorrow, and to maintain military neutrality for a long time. So, the EU is pulling membership into the NATO Pact. I think that you are somewhat dishonest in your position to respect both partners from the West and partners from the East, because that way, you would not send soldiers exclusively to peacekeeping missions, under the auspices of the EU and the UN, while at the same time punishing prison sentences of people who are self-organizing and going to Ukraine to support the Russian people in these conflicts. Generally, favouring this pro-European option compared to the national presence in all the pores of society, the military is the least guilty there, the media are also performing, that we had the opportunity to see yesterday where, despite the anti-constitutional ban on gathering, one handful of junkies appeared without incidents at the entrance to Hrtkovci, at the exit from Jarak and where, after the rally, when the president of our party had already left, a handful of drug addicts appeared, which caused the incident and where we today have the opportunity to read in the media today that we allegedly carried out the attack on someone, while in fact the real truth is that we were provoked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34795	Thank you, and you've wasted your time. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34796	Dear People's MPs, representatives of the People's Defence, the Law on Military Education is a specific law because it norms a very sensitive part that is related to the efficiency of the defence of a particular state. Schooling within the meaning of this law involves secondary education and education and higher education, which are implemented by higher education institutions. This law, although long to be expected, has a lot of uncertainty and inaccuracies, and therefore we Serbian radicals intervened in an amendment to improve this situation as far as possible. In particular, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(5). The law on military education, where I have suggested that because of the precision of the word "service" the word "as" and the education of foreign citizens is added because it has existed so far, and now we are merely precisely hinting, because this is essential because of the popularity of our military education that was once highly respected in our country. So I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34797	National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34798	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the Union, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we of the SNS are fully aware that only the strong, powerful and stable Serbian Army is a guarantee and peace in such turbulent times as we live in, in such an environment as we live in, that sometimes there are sparks and threats coming to us on some sides, and that for these reasons we have to do even more to make our army stronger, more modern and more willing to respond to all the challenges that can wait for it in the future. We do not strengthen our army to be a threat to anyone, but to be sure of our own and to make our people feel safe and more stable in all the places where they live. Strengthening Serbia's military is a guarantee of a stable state, a guarantee of a stable economy and economy. Where security is certain, there are investors coming, there are factories opening up, and this has been shown for the past five years, a stable Serbia, Serbia that can guarantee the safety, safety of investors and citizens and capital is a magnet for investors and is a magnet for opening new jobs and is attractive to its citizens to stay in it to live and create their families. In that sense, as an SNS MP, I am confident and my colleagues will support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34799	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34800	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected officers of the Republika Srpska Army and representatives of the BIA, have submitted an amendment to Article 2, with a proposal, on military education, to add attitude 6. This set of patriotic laws, which, at the defence ministry's initiative, came to the motion of the government of the Republic of Serbia to come to parliament, is proof that Serbia has taken a pro-Serbian stance after the roots of 2012 and that Alexander Vukic's arrival as defence minister. Not only about the military, the pro-Serbian stance, but about the state's policies at all. Not only is Aleksandar Vukic, the first pro-Spr. Defence Minister, but all the ministers who came after him, I am also thinking of Mr Rodic and Mr. Gasic, and Mr. Djordjevic, and of course the current defence minister in the Government of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vulin. I'm glad Mr. Vulin has the courage to call things the name they should be called. I hope that soon I will have the opportunity to ask him a set of questions, not to him, but to the Ministry of Defence, a set of questions based on everything we've heard, and that it was happening around our army and about our Army in the period until 2012. When we say military education, the very word education always associates us with theory. The theory itself without practice is not something and it's not some platform from which we can build the highest quality personnel. We need it except theory and practice, through practice I mean military exercises, I mean maneuvers. We all know that the best military and officer personnel are in war conflicts, but we don't want war. So far, the training of these personnel has no intention of going to war, but to deter anyone who thinks they can endanger the security of this country. After these two practical things that I have stated, there is another vision, and that is the improvement that Mr. Vulin said, which is when our members of the Republic of Serbia's army participate in peace missions and when we get out of here...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34801	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34802	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this article with the 6th position I have proposed, further defines the importance of military professional training in the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, and particularly the importance of developing medical centres. Over 5,000 specializations and subspecies have been allocated for the last five years, mostly from the deficiting branches of medicine such as anesthesiology, radiology, paediatrics, neurosurgery and other branches. By the end of this year, the first young experts in these areas will be worthy and quality replace their retired colleagues. Also, Serbia's military health contributes to the healing of our institutions. The Military Medical Academy, or Medical Faculty of Defence in recent years, has repeatedly called for a competition for the admission of unemployed healthcare professionals to specialization in the area of the deficited branches of medicine. So, for the first time, unemployed doctors of medicine can get specializations without a previous two-year internship, as was formerly a practice and thus enable young people to professionally improve and provide themselves with a quality job. The Military Medical Academy also joined the health ministry's action to strengthen the prevention of our citizens. Eight free preventive checks have already been carried out in most of the country's health institutions and over 150,000 citizens have carried out the aforementioned checks, and several thousand have been referred to further diagnostics. With this action, which has been carried out once a month since September 2017, the focus of treatment is shifted to prevention and early detection of disease in a phase where the chances of healing are greater. This raises the general health of the nation, but neither is the financial effects for health. Every dinar invested in prevention saves 16 dinars in the treatment resulting from the disease. The provision of regular and quality professional training and adequate working conditions, including modern equipment, creates conditions for new generations of doctors to contribute to the development of health care and thus to Serbia's overall development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34803	Thank you. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34804	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a War Education Act. Given that military education is very specific and that it is mainly intended for the education of personnel to work on defence and security affairs, we should not forget that here are schools and staff that will improve their engineering knowledge in the future and the dedicated industry. The very word dedicated industry indicates that it is the production of products and the provision of services that are for special purposes. Mahum are weapons products for military purposes, but these include special ones, not to mention secret research like nuclear technologies, space exploration and the like. The dedicated industry deals with the production of military aircraft, ships for the needs of the Navy, special military vehicles, weapons, and electronic systems. Knowing that technology is progressing very quickly today, we must keep in mind that we are constantly in step with the world, especially with the countries surrounding us. In order to keep up with the environment, we need a good and stable engineering chamber, and military schools and academias are the most invited to do so because their pittomians have already passed all security checks and among them we need to look for experts to advance the dedicated industry and contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34805	Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34806	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, gentlemen of the Republic of Serbia, Army of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen of the BIA, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 by which I am adding Article 6. I will better explain by military training how the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is ensured, with a view to reducing social workers. Namely, the Law on Education was adopted in 2017, and the Law on Military Education should only be brought into line with the Law on Education, i.e. to agree on a normative act in order for military-school institutions to become an integral part of the education system. I constantly point out when I talk about amendments to education that young people should be educated, because education gives freedom, gives choice. The educated people in every country are making an elite, and not only is it more, the higher the percentage of educated people, it's a stronger state. Just look at developed countries like Germany and other developed countries. Our country invests a lot of money in education and that's good. This reduces social differences. How? By enrolling the masses of children in the military academy, and the Military Academy gives free schooling, free food, free protection, free apartment, absolutely everything. Imagine how much that is on the annual level, it's about 4,000 euros. Four years, that's 16,000 euros. If you have two children, that's 32,000 euros. You can buy an apartment for one child. That's how the responsible government works. The more educated people are, the more scrupulous they know they're investing in the state without being kidnapped from it. I would also say that the responsible government of each country takes care of its population and that is a socially responsible policy, so does the SNS, and I will, of course, support my amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34807	A letter from Tijana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34808	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Honored Citizens, Amendment to Article 2. I have proposed the law to more precisely define this law in terms of strengthening regional co-operation through the improvement of the military education system, as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, which is in the power of the Ministry of Defence. Military education is based on the needs of education, training and military-professional training, which includes training programmes for the Serbian Army's reserve officers. Then, training programmes for candidates to join the professional military service and training programme for foreign citizens. The contribution of the adoption of the Law on Military Education to the Educational System of the Republic of Serbia is also reflected in the impact on the development of our country, resulting in the improvement of bilateral co-operation and the improvement of regional co-operation, which involves one of the external political priorities of the Republic of Serbia, which is achieved through very active participation in the work of regional initiatives and organisations, which represent significant support for the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia in the defence reform process. In Voting Day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34809	The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34810	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, gentlemen officers, honourable MPs, I will also insist on this amendment on the general need to improve the relationship and protect Serbs in the environment. How's our countrymen in the environment today? What are the signs of their future, we must recognize it? We see that Croatia has flooded the memory of the markings and passwords from the time of the criminal NDH. France's Ferdinand is being erected in Saarev, Clinton has already been erected in Pristina. Because of its Serbian essence, Njegoshe's bones have no tranquillity. Svetozar Miletic is suspicious, and his and your Novi Sad, had those psychologically ready for Franc Joseph and Conrad von Hecendorf. Is it in such a state that we can ignore how we, unfortunately, heard from a folk letter, history and tradition as a myth? Can we make cohesion between the honorable past and the future? Who did we ask in the future that we were entitled to this cohesion? Some events and people must remain moral and spiritual and emotional indications to the people. You don't learn about them. It teaches them with full faith in the correctness of all their actions and sacrifices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34811	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34812	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the military academics must also be brought up in parts of the warlords, such as General Ratko Mladic, who said, quote: "The limits are drawn and terminated, the country defends all forces. He is not a dead soldier if he gives life for his country, he is dead if he loses his eternal hearth." It's a finished quote. In a military academy, General Mladic was studied in 1994 to insinuate and humiliate the world media crowds of his favorite Clinton General Wesley Clark, convincing him to replace military hats, which is why resignations in Washington broke. General Mladic, like no one in history, humiliated NATO's offices when he took them hostage and used them as a living wall of NATO attacks from the air, tying them to bandits near the ammunition warehouse to bomb them. This is Mladic's cunning, and this is being studied in many military academys. The Honorable President, the SNS headed by Alexander Vukic and the Socialist Movement headed by Alexander Vulin, advocates that the honour, pride and reputation of the Serb army from the sink have been restored, to which the Dossmanian authorities led Tadic, called Lipicaner, who said in 2006, I quote - what the Army, and, behold, there is no shame in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34813	Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the theme of my amendment is agriculture, I look forward to a rain that fell and so on last night, and it seems to me, a saying in earlier Serbian governments that when it rains, we have no problems for the budget or for the military budget. I look forward to that rain, and I hope that the colleagues who marched the forest ores yesterday, that they contributed to that rain, and that's what I'm grateful for. In agriculture is a password — what seed you sow, what seed you sow, what kind of fruit you should expect. So, these people before us, they didn't sow us, they didn't plant us, they just read, they did, and they sold. A seed and a good harvest depends on investment. They didn't invest in the Army, which is our intention. They invested more in the minister of military and pasture, meadows, buildings that broke down in that pasture. We need to raise the GDP. I think agriculture is our comparative advantage and that through agriculture, processing and energy from agriculture we need to make a bigger social product and make more money for the Army as well. I believe that our army, it does not lack courage, but that we must well equip it with modern weapons to be a force that can deter potential opponents. We must not deal with the military and the economy of this country in the way these before us have worked. It comes down to what they have sown, and they are waiting for the pigs to sprout, and the pigs have never come to their senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34815	Marko Parezenović submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Stanija Compirović submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd amendment was submitted by Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34816	Thank you. Mr. Ministers and gentlemen officers, honourable MPs, education in the Serbian Army means, as we know, secondary education and education, higher education, training, military-professional training, etc. However, I would point out one very important thing that is important to society as a whole, which is that the Army is. Military schooling, military education, the best example of implementing lifelong education, from the first days of military school to the end of the entire career. We don't normally have similar examples in society, perhaps in medicine, where other people have been educated all their lives in such an organized way as in the military, though, in a more comfortable way, but the Army can be an example to the entire society. Throughout the entire military career, members of the Serbian Army are constantly perfecting themselves. The various courses of training, training, etc. are constantly being conducted, so that this is an excellent example for others as well as for how it should be organised. I especially stress the importance of military-professional training, once again, because it also provides the opportunity to carry out inter-war, inter-army co-operation with foreign citizens, so that they can also school and educate in our military-professional institutions, because we will certainly have the opportunity to export arms and military equipment to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34817	Thank you. Olivera Pesic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34818	Thank you. Mr President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment that I propose to be in Article 2. The bill adds the 6th position -- military and professional training provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on social equality. The existing Law on Military Schools and Military Research Institutions does not comply with the rules governing the education system in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of regulations governing the specificities of military education will complete the process of harmonisation of regulations and military school institutions will become an integral part of the education system in the Republic of Serbia. This proposal gives students, cadets, or students and teaching staff in higher education institutions the status of military persons and special rights, obligations, but also responsibilities. Secondary military schools can be established as a gymnasium, as a secondary vocational school and mixed school, which is both a high school and a secondary vocational school in accordance with education regulations. All of what I have cited, as well as the investments that happened in military education in previous years, will contribute to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly to the achievement of social equality and this amendment of mine is currently going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34819	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34820	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable officers, representatives of the BIA, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines Article 2 of this Law. Before I explain, I would only like to say for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia that, behold, some here today in the hall are not just discussing the Law on the Army, and they dared to take the words of our great military leader Zivojin Mišić in their own slogan, and today, here they are, no one here in the hall. But I guess it's already clear to everyone in Serbia. That's what their final election results testify to. To return to this amendment. The Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Defence really work well together, and that is another indicator of the good functioning of the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, and thanks to this very good co-operation today we have launched different projects in the area of the dedicated industry. I'd like to commend, Mr. Minister, and the latest acquisition of new funds, which is 740 assault rifles, and otherwise one part of these 26 different arms groups, which will contribute to better training. better equipment for the Republika Srpska Army. This bill will undoubtedly be supported by all those who respect, appreciate and love, but also by those who look forward to the increasing capacity of the Republic of Serbia's Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34821	National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34822	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Serbia has brought out top pilots, paratroopers, tankers, engineers, who grew up and matured alongside anthem, flag and coat of arms. And then somewhere in early 2000, a delegation made up of sociologists, winemakers and engineers, with all due respect for these professions and calls, which the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army demoted and brought to the brink of existence. Imagine now, dear colleagues, each of you that the Major, the Colonel and the General, had dedicated his life to his country and that he worked as morally and as devoted to his country and his people and then someone came one day and said, "We don't need you anymore, you're surplus, you went home." Did they even wonder how people who then lost their jobs would fit into civil business and normal life? How will their families be fed, and what will they live on? The government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic said they would actively invest in the development of the Army, military weapons and machinery, as well as people and level of education. That is why I am investing this amendment that will fully contribute to the development, to defining the objectives of military education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34823	The word has been made by MP Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34824	I'll use group time. We got four and a half minutes, I think. The military is an institution with the highest confidence of citizens in it, but also in such an institution, unconsciously dealing with the ruling party's policy, it may come to the place of the minister who has nothing to do with the military, as it is now. I also think of the previous defence minister, not Mr. Djordjevic, but Gasic. It may come to this minister giving himself the right to give an order after which he loses seven people, trained, educated, experienced and responsible. After that, there may be no responsibility, no investigation, no responsibility for seven lives lost, no matter whether they're military or civilian. One more piece of evidence, and now I'm not accusing anyone of this, is that we're a society that doesn't go in the right direction and, for this other part, I'm not accusing, of course, any political party, that unfortunately, I'm sorry for the family, in the last four months, 21 women lost their lives in Koserić. (Alexander Martinovic: What is this? ) It's fraternizing data. There's no need for this kind of reaction, because I said I wasn't accusing anyone of this other part. This is a general problem for society in general, and all of us who do public work, who do politics, especially you who run the most important institutions in this country, should ask certain questions where we as a society in general are going. I'm not accusing anyone of this matter, but, yes, the first thing I'm accusing of is an unconscious defence minister or perhaps a health minister who is responsible for seven lives lost in a helicopter accident, and that's why the whole system is both a defence system and all systems in the state of Serbia are extremely important. If that could not be prevented, then at least there must be responsibility for who is responsible, who gave the order, who instructed military pilots in the weather to carry out a specific task. In doing so, I'm not saying that they had bad intentions for those who gave the order, but you gentlemen officers know that some things are done, that some things are not done. If he didn't know the military minister and, unfortunately, that's why we've been saying all these days that neither this current minister is competent nor on the political side to perform this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34825	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34826	What can I tell you? It's started. Of course, we tried to talk about the law, and now we're going to river hate, ignorance, yes, which nobody asks them about in the defense system anymore, to listen. I wonder what Mr. Sutanovac deserved to be Minister of Defense? By breaking the law, leaving one ministry, he took severance and became a minister in the other ministry. I guess that's it. I don't know what he deserved, but I do know that everyone in this place has a responsibility to take care of the Serbian Army and not to destroy weapons, armies and officers, but to create both weapons and armies and officers. We know what it's been like in the past. You know, only when you see the amount of weapons we've now acquired, when you see the changes we're making in the military, when you see the return of the Serb army where it belongs, then you know why it's incompetent. You know what the real problem is here? Here is a fundamental problem that they see the Army as prey, so who the minister is, he's God. No, the Army knows the rules, they know what the Army does, what the Department of Defense does. I'm not a God in the Ministry. It's my job to secure the money, it's my job to make sure this country's policies are implemented. I'm doing it, and what you learned to make gods who wear flying vans that sew and make them, that's your problem. Don't use this tragedy, please. Don't, if you have cheeks, if you have shame. Don't accuse people of death. You don't have the right to do that. It has no right for any politician to do so. Only courts have the right to do so. No one made that decision. How can you not be ashamed? Seven dead. (Radoslav Milojic: Where is the verdict? Two years. Hold on, please, court ruling, hold on so long. I understand your hatred, but you have no right to order the judiciary to do what it does. Please, hold on, hold on to those families so you don't show such hatred. Don't open their wounds, don't open them. Imagine if any of us now dared to use those tragedies in the Besulian meadows or the fall of the moment in 2009 for political purposes? Don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34827	By amendment? (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. ) First infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34828	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Madam Chairman, with full understanding of tolerance for the rest of the opposition or what is called the opposition, I think you should have interrupted the Smederjevska Palanka speaker who was talking about an accident. So, five days ago in the United States, in Georgia, an American plane crashed with five deaths, and before that, two months ago, a developed, also, U.S.A. crashed a plane where a pilot and an officer were killed. The minister had already spoken about what was going on at practice while the minister was Mr. Sutanovac. We have no idea that we are politicizing, nor that we are politically exploiting anyone's death, especially the death of soldiers who were killed during a humanitarian action. This shows that DS, what Mr. Zivkovic was saying, is neither democratic nor party anymore. I think that they should be prevented in these morbid intentions that every accident will try to exploit and gain some political points at the death of people who, I repeat, have been in an honorable humanitarian action and in doing so their families suffer, also, certain consequences due to the loss of loved ones. I don't think there's any more odious act than to politicize the death of certain people in the National Assembly, since in no country, and I've listed one that's their favorite, it doesn't. Thank you, and I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34829	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the DS has been doing for months is inhumane, hypocritical, necrophilic, morbid, and I can speak freely sick. To accuse the ruling party, referring to the SNS, that she wanted anyone dead, the death of those soldiers, the pilots... Says the previous speaker – someone told them to perform a task. So the task was to transport a sick baby to VMA from the New Market to save her life. Now it's Bratislav Gasic, now it's Vukic, now it's Loncar, now we're from SNS, we wanted the helicopter to fall and the accident to happen. A man gets up and says, "The minister of the military is incapacitated for the function he performs, but just to tell you, one woman was killed last night." Ludi, there are people sitting here who are married, who have their spouses, who have children, and some have grandchildren. Do you think someone really rubs their hands in SNS when there's an accident in Serbia, when someone dies, when, God forbid, someone kills someone, there's a rape crime, or anything that terrifies every normal man? Not in any normal... (Radoslav Milojic): Only Vukic gets drunk when they kill Djindjic. I don't want to answer to this wildly edgy gentleman who's ruined his own community. In a normal and decent country, normal and decent people don't try to score political points on accidents, on the death of innocent people. It's only done DS and it's been doing it for over a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34831	Thank you. Parliament member Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34832	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I want to give my support to the government of Serbia's policy, because I am convinced that the government will continue to develop and invest in our military and defence system, by strengthening our security structures, both the military and the police. I would like to remind you of the visit by Alexander Vukic Moscow in 2016, which is of great importance to Serbia because only from this visit Serbia is now richer for six MiGs, 30 tanks and 30 armored vehicles. Finally, we are able to obtain and dispose of the most modern means of defense and maintain a high degree of security. During 2017, we had about 150 international co-operation activities. More than 450 soldiers, members of the Serbian Army participated in multinational exercises, ministerial visits were organised. All this points to a high level of defence and security in Serbia. The fact is that memorandums of understanding between our government and the governments of many countries related to military, defence and industrial co-operation have been signed. I would especially like to commend our army's cooperation with the civil sector. The army is a foundation for all citizens. It helps in elementary disasters and other similar situations that cannot be predicted, but also helps in other ways. I will indicate just how important it is for the local population that during 2017 the troops participated in the construction of the road into two local communities. I am taking the opportunity to invite the minister to do so in this year and beyond, and I am sure he will, and that you will take care of Serbia's security, Serbia's stability and the security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34833	Thank you. Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament member Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34834	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Serbia's military as one of its priorities has developed Serbia's defence industry, as thanks to its work, Serbia has included $1.215 billion since its arms exports over the last five years. With this in connection with the planned investment in the dedicated industry in 2018: 9.7m euros will be invested by the state in the flag of arms factory from Kragujevac, 6.8m will be invested in the "Teleoptik" from Zemun, 4.4m euros will be given to the Milan Blagojevic factory from Lucan, fourm euros will be invested in the new factory "First Partizan" in Užica, fourm euros will receive the Air Force Institute Moma Stanojlović from Batajnica, 3.5m euros planned to invest in the "First Petolec" factory in Triestenik, threem euros will receive the Technical and Remont Institute from Cačka, 2.5m euros will be paid to the FAP from Priboj, twom euros will be paid to the Technical and Remont Institute from Kragujevac. That these investments are justified and that in practice the invested money is repeatedly returned to the budget tells us examples such as "First Iskra" Baric. By investing in new production capacity of 1mm and 500,000 euros, First Iskra Baric has ensured that its annual turnover increases by 2m euros a year and that it will be able to employ new workers as well. After a long time, Iskra returned its original purpose, which is that it deals exclusively with the production of caring explosives for Serbia's military needs and for manufacturers of commercial explosives. Thanks to the transfer of technology and extra profits, the company has invested all that profits in the restoration of capacities and factories and has now completely renovated its capacities to the satisfaction of other factories of the dedicated industry, and 80% of our capacities are directed towards exports. I'll present the other examples in my next presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34835	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Igor Becic. Does he want a word? Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34836	I thank the president. Dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, in order to preserve security and in response to all security challenges, it is necessary for professional training to be in line with the goals Serbia has in this direction, i.e. training programmes to be representative. The training programme involves a programme of maintaining and improving acquired knowledge and skills, as well as training a professional soldier to carry out his duties successfully within the unit. The training in Vojsca is carried out in a plan and systematic manner as a permanent process of training and training of its members with the aim of training to carry out the duties of the department's commander, commanding water, or other duties of that level in the family of services and the successful execution of missions and tasks of the Serbian Army for reserve officers, to obtain representative professional soldiers who are the primary performers of numerous military tasks and duties, professionally specialised and less complex and auxiliary tasks in the commands, units and institutions of the Serbian Army, as well as to be able to respond to the tasks of operational engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34837	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34838	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the Army, is certainly, that's what I said last time, one of the most orderly systems of our society and an example of how other continents should be organised. By amending this Law on Military Education, we are correcting it, and we are passing it by emergency procedure so that generations that have been enrolled since September can now go according to new law. What is important is that the military and the elders, respecting our environment, and our policy that we are leading, are educated in the right way primarily for the defence facts, for participation in peace missions, and what I particularly care about and is certainly in the interest of citizens is facts in emergency situations, because in the nature of the work, I had the opportunity to deal with these situations, and I have to tell you that the military and the police in the best and fastest way to help the public, solve the problems on the ground and eliminate the consequences. By passing this law, I expect it to go even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34839	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34840	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, the centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government, Leskovac, has been named three times in a row as the best in the framework of the Regional Centre of the Ministry of Defence, Nis. This was demonstrated when assessing the compliance of local self-government defence plans with the Defence Plan of the Republic of Serbia. The town of Leskovac received an assessment of consent as the first city in Serbia, and besides the city and the other five municipalities in the Jablanic Management District also received a positive assessment of consent, meaning 100 per cent. These results have been achieved by the highly professional work of local self-government and selfless assistance provided by the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for the local self-government of the town of Leskovec. There has been a re-expression of excellent co-operation at the local level, but in drawing up a defence plan, I must especially point out excellent co-operation between the mayor and all the presidents of the municipalities, as responsible persons on the one hand and the head of the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government on the other. The mayor of the town of Leskovec provided working conditions, needed a number of professional and responsible persons and financial support through the city council, and the head of the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government of Leskovac, providing selfless professional assistance and continuous involvement of his referents who proved to be exceptional professionals. Considering that a large number of years have not been done in these jobs, in the way it is now done, that the mayor is a responsible person and that the city's defence plan itself is producing the town of Leskovac, these results gain even more importance. I must point out that all the local self-government of the Jablanic Management District has respected every deadline given by the Ministry of Defense in all the drafting of their own defence plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34841	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Shormaz submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague, Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34842	I thank the chairman. When it comes to military training, I have linked the amendment to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. this area of education and general improvement with the overall development of our society. I guess every legal proposal should serve the overall development of our community, but often they were just witnesses that it was just one dead letter on paper. The development is secure, but individual development, primarily by the then minister, his business and party associates and people who were directly or indirectly connected to him. Of course, Serbia is either stagnating or lagging much behind at the time, both in terms of the situation in the military and the defence system, as well as in terms of economic development. However, the affairs that were related to this period, starting with the election of ministers and qualifications that recommended him for the post, were training in foreign intelligence centres, destruction of Serbia's military equipment, disbanding units, selling weapons through privileged companies, etc. etc. have had a negative impact on Serbia's overall development. We're still feeling the consequences today. By installing such an amendment in the legislative proposal, we contribute not only to our society in the Republic of Serbia, but also to our communities in the neighbourhood. Here, the testimony about this is also to help develop the Republic of Serbia, in recent days of current development and funding by the Republic of Serbia on the initiative of the president of the country, millions of projects in the south, i.e. in the Herzegovina area, projects in Mostar, Trebinj, Bilja, Nevesinj, etc. where it's something that's vital to our community that lives there. This amendment of mine is one symbolic support of this path and these processes and the continuation of these things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34843	Thanks, buddy. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34844	Thank you. My amendment refers to military training. We provide the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on improving health care. Military education is the intention of training new and perfecting existing personnel. To train professionally the needs of the Serbian Army. The amendment concerns improving health care. So, education and training of medical military personnel, so I have to say something about an institution where people are educated and trained. The institution is VMA, which received a gold plaque from the Serbian Army over 170 years of existence. She was presented in 2014. It was declared Serbia's super brand in the health category, 2007, 2013 and 2016. It's a military-educated and research institution with an international reputation. That's where we train cadets to improve health care. They need to be trained for specific tasks of military health professions, to acquire modern skills. The vision is to educate doctors of medicine according to European and world standards, to be equal with world experts in the field of medical science and military sanity. With more than 40% of civilians being treated there, this amendment is fully justified for improving the health care of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34845	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Maja Macužic Puzic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34846	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is directly related to the amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, and in my opinion, it is completely complemented by the bill itself. Because it emphasizes and potentials modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. Mr. Minister, I'm glad that here, for all this time this debate on these bill proposals, both in principle and in the debate in particular, we haven't heard one single argument in favour of the criticism of this law. Not a single argument, nor any serious criticism of the law itself, except for some empty paroles, empty flossules, but exhausted, millions of times repeated flossules, other than criticism, for criticism, except for attempts at criticism, but without one single argument. Once again, some MPs have not missed the opportunity to, at any cost, take a stand that is counter-SNS, although they have no single argument to support it. So if you ask them, what are they against, then they are against us because we are in favour. That would explain why they're against this bill. This would not all be such a problem if it were not for party members, who is directly responsible for the decades-long systematic destruction of the Serbian Army. My message to them is just to keep going that way. Let them continue to run such a policy, because this is the fastest time in political history where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34847	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34848	A few tips, maybe some suggestions to rationalize the discussion. I notice that many are reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, after which they say that they do not want to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it would be nice to take away that time they spent, the parliamentary group from which... . (President: This has nothing to do with the amendment, counterpart Zivkovic. Of course, I'm just saying for rationality. And it has to do with the amendment as many of the predecessors have spoken. There, here and now we've just heard that the opposition is against just because the government is for, which is one nonsense, that we're against this law. A small effort at the level of not mathematics, but a simple account would lead many predecessors to a clear conclusion that they, that is, that the ruling party, or that the SNS has submitted the largest number of amendments to this law, in logic which is one old science, and applies today, even in Serbia, and even in this Parliament, it is logical that when someone makes the most remarks on something, that he thinks something is wrong. This logical conclusion can come to the definition that this bill is the least pleased with the ruling party, or its parliamentary clubs, because otherwise they would not have submitted such a large number of amendments. Of course, at some point, there will be an attack of logic and wit among the largest number of people who represent that ruling policy and they will withdraw these amendments, or they will still be insecure about whether logic is something to be served, to wait for the sound of the bell and in one known effect that I will not repeat, a Russian scientist Pavlov has long defined it, will vote against his personal amendments. Therefore, the logic that the opposition is against the bill is correct, but even more so against this bill is the ruling party, and I call on the minister to withdraw it from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34849	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34850	Mr. Marinkovic, because of these words, the previous speaker should at least have received a warning. SNS MPs, let me tell you, and let me tell him, they're not dogs. Pavlov’s reflex, referred to by the previous speaker, is the result of an experiment that was practiced by the Soviet scientist Pavlov on dogs before World War II. So, Zoran Zivkovic called us all here in the Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group dogs. I ask you not to tolerate such behavior in the future. I know he's used to the bar language, to his bar manners, and I know they've tied him to a Nish bander in time, so they've probably remained the consequences, but that doesn't justify him continuing with that behavior in 2018. That arrogant behavior, burning electricity bills in a barrel, tying people to a lamppost, that could have been in his time. Today, Serbia is a civilized, decent country. No one has any objection to anyone's opinion, but to compare the entire parliamentary group to the dogs where some reflexes are being practiced, that's inadmissible. I ask you, Mr. Marinkovic, to take care of this in the future. So Mr. Zivkovic's behavior is something that in the most harsh way possible raises the dignity of the National Assembly. I understand that he is a man who is in political hopelessness, that practically no party, his party has fallen apart, everyone has left him alive, alone as a lone wolf in the National Assembly, doesn't know what kind of politics he represents anymore, and he's left with nothing left to insult. Just because he thinks he's too smart and can't understand what he's trying to say, let him forget it. There are people sitting here who are a thousand times more educated, more written, more cultural, more polite and very well-known the meaning of certain words and individual expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34851	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You have the right to speak by amendment. With my full agreement with my colleague Martinovic in the context of what he said, but, of course, because of further parliamentary debate, I did not want to give you a warning. You have the right to express yourself however you want, of course, metaphorically and in any other way, but you have no right to insult anyone, which is already a question of your style and your relationship with your colleagues, the issue of home education. Thanks for these suggestions. You're right about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34852	I've been mentioned three times, and I don't have the right to a replica. Okay, and that's part of some logic. I'm very sorry that a colleague who would have to hear well, and you, the chairman, didn't understand that the point of my earlier story was in logic, not in dogs. And it's a completely pointless thing. Where I recognize myself, it's not my job to do it, nor did I mean it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34853	Dude, I didn't give you a replica. So you can speak by amendment. You know what the amendment says, and I can read it to you. Here, I will read: "A military-professional training provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to modernisation." Let's talk about modernising the Serbian Army. Here and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34854	Modernisation is, of course, a very important thing in any sphere of life, in the defence system, in the Ministry of Defence, in the Serbian Army and without it, it cannot. Modernization, of course, must take place in some logic. So I tried to explain earlier that if you have 300 and some amendments, or 500 and some amendments to one bill, to the first few members of one bill, then you probably logically and modernly think that law has nothing to do with it. Just before, I called the minister to withdraw the law because there are too many amendments that say that this law is not good, and I expected the minister's reaction to what I was saying, and there was no reaction from anyone who recognized himself in some Soviet scientist's research 100 years ago. I didn't do that. Secondly, all my colleagues who know me a little better know that I respect the rights of all animals, and I would never compare anyone with anyone in any ugly way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34855	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34856	Pavlov is a Soviet scientist who died in 1936. He's been nominated for the Nobel Prize in time. He experimented with dogs, and those dogs had a mostly sad and unfortunate destiny. I'm behind what I said. So, the previous speaker, because he can't talk about the amendment and since it has proved to be one of Serbia's biggest political failures in recent political history, remains only to insult and to compare Serbian Progressive Party MPs with dogs. He says he didn't talk about Paul's reflex and didn't talk about dogs, he talked about logic. Here, I'd like to, since he's much more educated than I am, much more cultural, much more polite, more books he's read to us now, to give us the definition of logic, so let's see if we SNS MPs, who submit amendments, submit logical or illogical amendments. So I'm asking you as president of the parliamentary group, please both as a friend and as a colleague, to give a word to the previous speaker to give us the definition of logic, that textbook definition of logic, so we'll see if our amendments fit that definition or not. The previous speaker doesn't even know how to count, which I'm surprised, because his bill always went well especially when it comes to money. The SNS MPs submitted 380 amendments to a full set of military laws, representing Minister Vulin's National Assembly. In total, all those laws were filed, if I'm not mistaken, 1,600 amendments. Now tell me, how is 380 bigger and more, larger than 1,600? If we have submitted 380 amendments, then who has submitted the other 1,200 and who knows how many amendments? So, please, give a word to the previous speaker, since we're ignorant, stupid, uneducated, rude, we know nothing about anything, so give him a word and let him give us a definition of logic, and we'll be quick to see if these amendments are in accordance with his definition or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34857	Thank you, fellow Martinovic. Everyone has the right to think and speak in parliament as they wish. I can't listen to you in this part right now. We continue the debate, we all know what logic is, maybe a colleague will have a chance somewhere else to say it. There's no replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic: Give me a replica!]] National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Sonja Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34858	Thank you, Your Honor. I am proud to say that I am an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party and I have submitted as many as four amendments to the bill, I have the right to do so, and all with special reference to economic growth and improving economic growth. Investment in military education is an investment in the future of the Serbian Army and investment in the future of the country and every citizen, because we educate young people who will be ready to respond to the challenges. We reform society, the economy, the system, education, and all that we do with one goal, to leave children a brighter future, a more orderly country in which they will be able to school, work and live decently. I will proudly now say that every citizen and citizen of our Serbia hears me, that growth in the first quarter of 2018 is 4.5%. The good news is that this is all about economic growth and that salaries and pensions will be increased by 10% by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34859	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Vera Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34860	Dear Chairman, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, by submitting this amendment, I wanted to include myself in the legal text and military training as a condition and a necessary element for the growth of the economy and in general the formation of a favourable economic environment. The military represents the pillar of every society and state, just like education. With adequate training of military personnel and military industry factors, we are able to produce military equipment necessary to equip our army, but also to achieve economic benefits by exporting them. This is the special success of previous ministers, first Alexander Vukic, then Minister Djordjevic and current Minister Vulin, who led our dedicated industry's capacities to the level at which it has won its reputation everywhere in the world. Milan Blagojevic, "The First Spark", "The flag of arms", "Krusik", are all examples of successful companies that represent the Serbian industry and Serbian knowledge in the right way. Our military industry, in accordance with its capacities, does not lag behind in quality compared to high world standards. The "Shumadi", "Alexander", "Nora", "Avionic Owl", then "Lazar" and "Milos" are the pride of our military industry and always particularly interesting in various international exhibitions. Further reform of military education, along with investment in the dedicated industry, the Serbian military industry can be a cornerstone of overall economy and economic growth. The products of the dedicated industry are the most frequent momentum of industrial development thanks to the acquisition of new technologies and the increase in capacity. Given the complexity of the product, especially complex combat systems, cosmic and nuclear research...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34861	Thank you very much. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34862	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's another illogical amendment to the otherwise wonderful bill. Article 2 provides that military education is part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia and is defined by this proposed solution to ensure that education, training and military training of persons from the citizenship of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by foreign citizens and professional military personnel, according to professional profiles and the needs of the visions of genders and military services and the rules of military service. Then why did I refer an illogical amendment to this member of the bill? It's because the 2030 agenda says all of this to 4 and the 4 target is about the quality of education. He's just saying all of this that's defined by Article 2, so that's why I added attitude 6, to put on exactly sustainable development. What does that target 4 say? Objective 4 says – inclusive and fair, quality education and promotion of lifelong learning opportunities for all, increasing by 2030 the number of young and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and professional skills. Well, isn't that what this member says? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34863	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34864	Thank you, Chairman. A clear legal framework against all forms of discrimination has finally been established in the Republic of Serbia, and significant reforms have been carried out in the military education system, such as women's admission to the Military Academy. These shifts in most cases were accompanied by a corresponding change of discourse in this educational system. The textbooks and other teaching materials shall be changed and audited in an appropriate adaptable manner. Some of the most recently published textbooks contain adequate formulations from the point of view of human rights protection and the arrangement of those in the mentioned area. A special sensitivity of reform processes is shown to vulnerable groups. The reform processes carried out by the President of the State, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, the Government and the Ministry of Defence contribute to the development of awareness of the need for better protection of human rights and the members of the defence system themselves, so that the Law on Military Education and the Law on the Serbian Army further prohibits discrimination against members of the Serbian Army on the basis of racial, religious, national, full membership or any other personal property. Among the most important achievements of the reform processes is the admission of women to education, the Military Academy, and from 2014 to the Military High School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34865	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34866	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow officers, my amendment refers to Article 2 when we talk about military professional human training and the implementation of Agenda 20/30, or the way the world goes when we talk not only about sustainable development in economy and economy, but also about the education of human beings in order to simply move the whole world into a new system of functioning so-called. digitization, modernisation, one-fourth industrial revolution. What's important to say today is that the Military Academy today has 650 cadets in total, and that the Military High School enrolls 120 students annually, and yet there are military schools that enroll 60 high school students. This is very important for Serbian citizens to know what capacity Serbia has, or how hard it is for you as a ministry or as a competent educational institution at all, to choose the best of the best. According to basic academic studies for enrolment at the Military Academy, there are 51 cadets on seven directions, i.e. ten modules and on master studies, there are also seven modules. It should be commended that the Academy itself has entered full modernisation when it comes to formal education, so that there are guidelines relating to defence management, military electronic engineering, military engineering, PSC, defence logistics and ABHO. So these are all directions that show by their very name how much we're actually going into step with time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34867	Thank you. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34868	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the amendment I have submitted, and as regards the relationship between military training and strengthening the security structures of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to draw attention to Mr. Minister that we will never again hope that we have a minister of military training who told then US Ambassador to Belgrade Michael Polt in 2007, that it is his real mission to prepare the Serbian armed forces for joining NATO and that he has a major problem representing about 200 active members of the MUP and that he is keeping an eye on them through his security services because of his, as he said, their Kosovo experience. I also hope that we will never again experience the situation that happened before 2012, that someone who is a war crimes prosecutor is reporting to the U.S. Embassy's advisor about the state of affairs and how long it has been in pursuit of persons who have been charged with committing certain crimes for which the prosecution has jurisdiction. I am also saying this because, some time ago, there was a monstrous accusation against the current chief of staff, otherwise a wonderful man by General LJubisha Dikovic, probably not enough Serbian heads and Serbian living meat delivered to The Hague tribunal, so there was a monstrous charge that General Dikovic was allegedly responsible for some war crimes that took place at KIM. So, I hope Mr. Minister, you respect this amendment or not that you will continue to run a policy of military neutrality and policy that will be in line with the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34869	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34870	Exactly, we not only improve the situation in our army but once again confirm our permanent political orientation about military neutrality introduce them even as a legal category. As the honourable MP mentioned, not once have General Dikovic and many other honourable officers tried to drag through the mud of lies to show the truth about the heroic resistance of the Serbian people as a crime, and unfortunately very often they have had political support and our authorities for it, very often they have had the support of the people who are right in our country, who are in the political circles of our country. Serbia's army is proud of each of its officers, from the Chiefs of Staff to every participant in the defence of this country, and that's how we treat them, that's the only way we use their experiences, we use their morale, we use their reputation, we use what they sacrificed for their country, and the country needs to thank them, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34871	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by MP Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34872	I hope that it will finally stop with the wartime Hague statements, I hope that we will finally talk about this law about how the material status of members of the Republic of Serbia's Army is, because what we forbid is someone's entry into the country or someone forbids our ministers to enter the country, Serbian citizens will have nothing good. It's shown in the past, it's showing up now. I hope you'll finally get out of the vest where you were in the '90s... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34873	What does this have to do with the amendment? (Radoslav Milojic: Did you hear what counterpart Martinovic said?) What difference does it make? Please don't argue, I won't allow you words like that, or such terminology. That absolutely makes no sense, you can't insult the minister or anyone here with words like that. (Radoslav Milojic: We are talking about how members of the army live. Let's move on. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: You must punish me first, to take away my word. Learn something. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34874	The esteemed representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, let us return and remind ourselves, after the wars of the 1990s, and afterwards of the Dosovo 12-year-old economic, transition and national, in one word, of the destruction of the Republic of Serbia, and at the beginning of this century, we all know that, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted SNS, Aleksandr Vukic with the first minister of the military. With all the laws of the agreement and decisions of the defence ministry at this session and specifically the proposal for a law on military education, the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to work on the development and progress of the Republic. With all these bill proposals, thoroughly and persistently, step by step, stone by stone, we are rebuilding our common house, our Serbia, but also our army. In Article 2 of this bill, which defines military training, I have proposed a new position indicating that this legislative proposal provides what is our programme goal, our political goal, which is the progress of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I must say, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia about the current developments in our country, we have seen what the opposition of Serbia today offers as an alternative. They offer chaos and a return to the ideological horns of the '90s, from which even today, a quarter of a century later, they are unable to get out. Fortunately, Serbian citizens recognize it, and their voter confidence is at the level of a statistical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34875	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here's your colleague, Zeleg.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34876	To Article 2. The law on military education, I have submitted an amendment aimed at improving the bill. The amendment adds attitude 6 to encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia through military professional training. By draft law, students, cadets, or students and teaching staff in military institutions receive military status and special rights and obligations. The law also proposes the regulation of specific military education objectives, which includes, in addition to the general objectives of education, specific objectives stemming from the specific nature of military education. With SNS coming to power, the period of recovery of the Republika Srpska Army began, as well as the restoration of the destroyed military technique. The Serbian government is also seeking to improve citizens' trust in one of the most important pillars of stability for each sovereign state. The pillar must at any moment be able to preserve peace in the state and stability of borders, and such a task cannot be carried out without long preparations and serious preparation of personnel, or officers who need the task in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens to carry out the work. Our army should be proud of its past and of all the military ventures it has carried out, but from this past and learn not how some unserious politicians have declared that in the past a Serb soldier has died gloriously for his country, but today the army should gloriously carry out its mission and preserve what is most important, and these are human lives. By applying this law and by raising the quality of military personnel education, it is precisely this goal that is the meaning of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34877	National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34878	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, namely the Law on Military Education has great importance not only in the military frameworks but also in the framework of the entire education system of the Republic of Serbia. In this light, it was necessary to align this law on military education with the Law on Higher Education and thus enable their complementarity, on the one hand, and also to enable one coordinated application. What is very important and what is the connection between the Law on Military Education, on the one hand, and the Law on Civil Education, or higher education, and on the other, what is their connection to local self-government, as it says in the amendments. I'll tell you that the largest number of local self-government faces a very, very significant problem, which is a huge surplus of workers or extra workers and a lack of staff. In this way, therefore, here, and through the Law on Military Education, joint civil and military programmes are set up, therefore, universal programs, programs that will surprise intellectuals who will be able to find their origin not only in the military but also in the civil sector. It's just one way to solve this problem that I said existed, and it's related to local self-government, where these intellectuals, these educated young people, will find a place, not only in the military, but also in the civil system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34879	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34880	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on military education, which aims to further define the text of this law and the objectives to be achieved. A whole set of laws that we are discussing and concerning the defence industry aim to improve the functionality of the entire Serbian Army defence system and the dedicated industry. This is exactly what the key is, in fact, in connecting all segments into investing capacity improvements and in this job has been actively working several years back. When it comes to the dedicated industry, starting in 2012, the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic, then Mr Bratislav Gasic and Minister Djordjevic and Alexander Vulin started with an active and significant investment in the recovery of the dedicated industry, which until then was a loser and really could not respond to all the needs of our country. This is also an indicator of the serious state relations, which are carefully and plannedly investing in improving capacity to remove critical points and to ensure the smooth functioning of all these important segments. Today in our factories we purposely have a designed machinery park, we have stable contracts, we have a dedicated, which is an active participant in the world market, whose products are both wanted and appreciated. What was proposed through this set of laws, along with all that it will bring, is that the state actively participates with 51% in the action package, to control business, continuity, production, with what is foreseen for factories that are part of the defence industry group, which is to invest in improving further their capacities, investing in perfecting, preparing personnel, Serbia's Army equipment. Simply, this is all that is necessary for the military to maintain the reputation it has among citizens, because it is an institution of the highest confidence of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34881	Thank you, colleague Turk. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, Dr Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34882	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, respected BIA representatives, respected fellow MPs and, above all, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on military education, where Section 2 is added, would further define the objectives of this law. First of all, I want to point out that, here, today, as well as the previous sessions, as well as the previous months, those who destroyed our Serbia, destroyed my Kruševac, destroyed all the cities, from Nis, Leskovec, Vranja, to Sudotica, they are still not ashamed to speak ill of our government, our president, about all those good people who honestly and honestly try to provide the citizens of Serbia with a normal life that they tried to destroy and of course succeeded in doing so. What I want to add is that Serbia's citizens have said clearly to not their policy more than once since 2012, clearly that SNS and SNS have no alternative and that they want to be led by Mr Aleksandar Vucic, but obviously it is not enough for them. On this occasion, I would like to add that by submitting this amendment, I wanted to add a contribution and to encourage and develop the health system, and that is what the Ministry of Defence is working on, but also, here, I would like to stress to this occasion that Minister Loncar has just stressed that over the next few weeks he will receive hundreds of doctors, which is indeed commendable, because this shows that we want to ensure that all of our young people are employed and staying in the country, not working on the destruction of the country, as did the yellow enterprise by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34883	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34884	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected BIA representatives, military education and professional training is of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. It regulates the objectives and principles of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, and includes: education, training and military-professional training for defence purposes and the Republic of Serbia's Army. For the Republic of Serbia's army to exceed its frameworks, we could see for ourselves many times. In situations with their sacrifice and engagement, many infrastructure projects have been made, and more importantly, major crisis situations and saved human lives have been overcome. If someone rightly can say that, they are citizens of Zapca, and we all remember in 2014 and catastrophic floods. Then the incompetent city government, led by the DS, left the Shabbat for mercy and mercy, doing nothing to prevent the flood wave that threatened Capca. At the meeting of the government of the Republic of Serbia, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic made a decision to send members of the Republika Srpska Army to Sabac, who with thousands of volunteers defended and defended Sabac, and thus a much wider region. Such loyalty and sacrifice of the Republika Srpska Army to its people, headed by then-Minister Bratislava Gasic and Chief of Staff General Dikovic, Shapcani will not remember forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34885	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34886	Honored chairmen, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, military education goals, in principle, contain the same objectives as civil ones, which are basically full of intellectual, emotional, social, moral and physical development, the acquisition of quality knowledge, skills and attitudes, the development of creative abilities, creativity, aesthetic perceptions and taste, the development of the ability to find, analyse, apply and communicate information, with the skillful and efficient use of information technologies. In addition to these objectives, an increase in the educational level of the population and the development of the Republic of Serbia as a state is based on knowledge. A military aspect, especially in the development of health care, would mean that when training personnel for health care institutions, starting from secondary schools, to universities, institutes and military research centres, they have military status and special rights, obligations and responsibilities, governed by this law and regulations on Serbia's Army. It is foreseen that a teacher who has stopped working for retirement can keep his duties on master and doctoral academic studies, as a mentor or a member of the Commission in the process of drawing up and defending final works, or dissertation in these studies and as a member of the Commission for the selection of teachers. In this way, it is ensured that professional and experienced teachers can transfer acquired knowledge and experience to younger colleagues until they have obtained a condition for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34887	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34888	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Article 2 is. The draft law defines that military education includes education, training and military-professional training, the proposed amendment further defines the said member, taking into account the importance of traffic as important areas, where particular handling could be recognised as of great importance at any level of education, especially in schools whose knowledge and skills in the future would focus on the security and defence of a single country. Policy implementation, in line with the SNS programme, is absolutely evident that investment in education is recognised as a priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and that great efforts, but primarily energy and will, in the better quality of education, applying the methods of developed countries, are being made by President Aleksandar Vucic. Having awareness of the importance of traffic and coordination of all visions for a simpler and safer quality of life of citizens certainly merits a special consideration at all levels of education. As military education is aimed at defending the country, it is important to have as a roof law such a good proposal on the agenda today, which will define the starting base for our country's security. Also, I want to point out that the special responsibility is to well-qualified, well-trained persons and that they should respond to the challenges our country faces by moving towards an ever-increasing future and therefore, with great attention, a detailed analysis must be taken into account at all levels of education, given that investment in education is an investment in our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34889	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the primary role of the Army and Serbia and in every other country is to defend the country. However, there is another very important role and not even less important, which is that the Army is an institution that belongs to all and that as an institution that belongs to all affects the collective debt of one people, its unity, given that the Serb people are small and its survival. It seems to me precisely why such a policy was led from 2007 until 2012 when the Serbian Army was destroyed. You know, how can an officer or a soldier have a mood when he can't do his own job that he loves and when his technique and equipment are destroyed or ruined. If someone thinks they're not feeling it among the citizens, they're wrong, and when the Serbs see that his army is falling apart, they conclude that his state and the negation of the process that was until 2012 is complicity in the process and the collapse of the state. Also, since 2012, it starts with Minister of the then, Alexander Vukic, to all ministers until today...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34891	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34892	And when the president... To finish my colleague Marinkovic, others could.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34893	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34894	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34895	Thank you very much. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34896	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, military-professional training provides overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the improvement of medical institutions. As we know, the Ministry of Defence has set aside two billion 490 million dinars for 2018 to supply military medical facilities with drugs and sanity materials, which guarantees that all military insurance companies will be adequately disposed of in an adequate manner, i.e. they will have the necessary medicines and necessary sanitary material. These investments are a guarantee that military health will be able to meet the needs of all of its medical services users. For the first time, at the beginning of this calendar year, they entered with pharmacies that are full of drugs and expendable sanitary material. Military Health is one of the most important parts of the Department of Defense. It employs about 4,500 people, all those health workers who care about hundreds of thousands of health care users, to have the care and health care they deserve every day. By decision of the government of the Republic of Serbia, VMA is functionally involved in a system of republican health with 40% of its capacities, starting on 1 January 2008. This year alone, more than 230,000 civilian insurance companies are screened at VMA, of which more than 20,000 are hospitalized. Besides, every Wednesday, the VMA Emergency Centre is also an emergency service for Serbian citizens. As far as the military education law itself is concerned, he as a reform law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34897	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34898	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, Serbia can boast of the long and rich tradition of military education. The development of military education was closely linked to the development of the Serbian Army. The military was the basis and protection of the national idea of creating a modern Serbian state in the 19th century, the Principality and the Kingdom of Serbia. The establishment of the first civil and military schools announced the start of the development of educational institutions in Serbia, which in the 19th century will surprise the play of top intellectuals and experts in military areas. The adoption of the Law on Military Education is necessary because military education is of great importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. Education also involves professional training and training during life. Military-professional training within the meaning of this law involves training programmes for Serbian Army reserve officers, candidates for entry into professional military service and foreign citizens. Investment in military education invests in the future of Serbia and thus in the future of each of our citizens. The Serbian army today, unlike some previous period, enjoys again the reputation it had before and what it deserves and thanks first of all to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the competent ministry. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34899	Thank you, colleague. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34900	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, military education includes education and military and professional training for the needs of Serbia's defence and army. The law on military education provides for secondary education and education and higher education that are being implemented by higher school institutions. Military education is of special importance to the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 of the bill proposes the regulation of military education as part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and as an action of particular importance for the defence which is in the power of the Ministry of Defence. We can conclude from the draft law that the proposed solution is based on the needs of education, training and military-professional training of persons from the public, both those who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of foreign state, professional military persons according to professional profiles, needs, species of gender and service of the military service, and rules of military service, which are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and competent professional military authorities. What I want to point out is that in the municipality of Bujanovac, the Serbian Army participated in the adaptation of the preschool building "Our Joy" and music schools in 2015. On that occasion, a preschool building that is over 40 years old replaced a wooden carpenterium with a carpentry. The sanitary nodes were arranged, the electrical installation was replaced, as well as the repair of the roof. This is of paramount importance to our youngest citizens who are staying in this facility, to keep their stay calm and calm, and to make sure that their children are safe. I thank the defence ministry and then Minister Bratislava Gasic and the Serbian Army for their help and support.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34901	Thanks, buddy. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already spoken at this session about the importance of education, including, of course, the military for the overall development of society and when it comes to the country's strategic efforts to regulate opportunities in the sector. We also mentioned the development of a strategic document that will regulate the most important fundamentals of education in the Republic of Serbia in the next decade, so from 2020 to 2030. Already today, a series of different aspects are defined which the state plans to pay particular attention to. We have already talked about the direct link between the good, quality education system and the economy being essential to one society, and also in the context of military education. The aspect mentioned today by counterpart Djokic also concerns the so-called question. lifelong or lifelong learning. And in the context of this law we're discussing now, it certainly has its specific weight. It is known that our experts coming right from the military education system are truly extraordinary experts when it comes to different knowledge, skills and numerous areas that need not only be closely related to military issues. There are a lot of extraordinary examples that we can find around the world that these people, the moment they end their professional career, say in a system like military, are starting their own private initiative. They turn their knowledge into a direct contribution to the economy. So there are really many examples, and today in Serbia we also have the right format to support these efforts. We recognize the form in the fact that opportunities for business are drastically better than just a few years back. The number of companies, the number of enterprises formed at the level of one year for thousands exceeds what would be the standard in, say, 2012. The number of those that are shut down at the level of the year is twice as low. So, we can work today, we can, we've created conditions for, to attract, the state can develop and grow, to become modern on a healthy basis. Why not use it in a system like a military education system, why not make a good contribution and make us much better than we used to be, to show up more with a sad DOS palanka, and I end up with the kind of Serbia, unfortunately, until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34903	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34904	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the provision of Article 2 of the proposed law has been prescribed that military education is part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, and that action is of particular importance for the defence which falls within the defence ministry's jurisdiction. The proposed amendment adds item 6 which further defines the objectives of military education and refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rights of displaced persons. Dear colleagues, starting with the fact that displaced persons are one of the most endangered categories of the population, their problems are numerous, and are most pronounced in the areas of resolving housing needs, resolving status issues, education, employment, pension, disability and health insurance. When it comes to addressing housing needs, it should be pointed out that the Republic of Serbia has been filling for two decades in co-operation with international organisations creating conditions for this category of population for their dignified and secure life. In addition to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out this occasion also the contribution of the units of local self-government doing so on two levels. At the first level, it refers to the allocation of construction land without compensation for residential construction, providing municipal infrastructure and giving up the collection of various local taxis and contributions. On the second level, they are directly involved in solving this burning problem of this face category, so in that sense, for illustration, I want to point out two examples. One example is the Fund for providing assistance to refugees, exiled and displaced persons of the AP Vojvodina, who recently announced and implemented a public competition for the construction, construction and adaptation of housing facilities in the maximum amount of 500,000 dinars on the territory of six Vojvodina municipalities, and another example is the city of Belgrade, or the Department of Social Protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34905	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34906	Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected officers of the Serbian Army, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on military education, I add the 6th position – military-professional training provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The amendment, which I have proposed, defines that military-professional training acquires general or expertise in the field of defence and security necessary for the performance of defence and security affairs, including such trained, trained when doing local self-government, in addition to the staff trained and trained in other educated institutions of the Republic of Serbia, provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. The Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are the pride of our country and citizens. Therefore, the greater impact and application of their standards, principles and procedures would achieve not only efficiency at local level, but quickly ensure the overall development of the state. I ask my colleagues in voting day to support this law and my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34907	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34908	Thank you. To Article 2. I have submitted an amendment to the bill, and I propose to add the 6th position -- military-professional training provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special focus on the rule of law. Military-professional training builds the identity of a professional officer trained and prepared for the intellectual and ethical challenges of an officer's call. Military-professional training gives students much greater certainty, i.e. future officers, that possibly because of the specificity of calls, if they could not continue their professional careers, they have the opportunity to engage in all other civilian flows without great difficulty. Knowledge, ability and responsibility, as fundamental values brought by Serbian officers from military education, are a prerequisite for carrying out the tasks set on both internal and international terms. By adopting the Law on Military Education, Educational and Scientific Research Activities in segments that take place within higher education and other military institutions and institutions will be systematised and united, and care for them raised to the highest possible level. The theoretical and practical knowledge and skills acquired by individual and teamwork enables a young officer to successfully perform professional tasks in changing and very dynamic circumstances, which characterize the modern military profession. It could be said that military-professional training in the future will create an educated frame trained for various challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34909	The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34910	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The law on military education, where I wanted to link it to the efficiency of local self-government. In order for local self-government to be an effective property in its territory to be resolved, i.e. to be arranged and to know who belongs to what. In 2006, as early as the DS, a master plan was put in place for the sale of assets that are not necessary for the functioning of Serbia's Army. We see that the consequences of this master plan are insufficient and that today, out of over 500 objects belonging to the military, a little less than 100 are sold. I welcome the fact that the Department of Defense considers that the funds sold by this master plan should be invested in apartments for the military. Also, I welcome the 2014 attempt to re-evaluate 15 objects, i.e. to reduce the value of these facilities in order to make them easier to sell. But unfortunately, we still have about 400 objects standing and collapsing, like. A case in Kikinda. You yourself know that in the very center of Kikinda we have an object former home of the Army, which was primarily estimated at 450 thousand euros, then at 300,000 euros, which is unrealistic for such a facility in Kikinda, primarily because of its condition, because it has nothing to invest in for years and because the facility is under the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, and only the façade of the facility costs several tens of thousands of euros. The city is interested in buying this facility, but of course, with more favourable conditions and for more than five years to be redeemed. I'm monitoring your activities on this, and I hope that in some time soon the evaluation of all the values of all the properties that are within the Ministry of Defense will be restarted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34911	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34912	Just for a little while, let me get this straight. The price is paid by the tax administration, so not the Serbian Army. Serbia's army can't ask questions. The tax administration comes out with a market assessment, says how much it's worth, so local self-government has the right to prevent buying. If she's not interested, then she goes to the market, so if there's no one interested, the price goes down by about 20%, so it goes on. It's the law, and you can't do it any other way. We're the only ones who can change the law. That's the second question. I agree, that's why you're here, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34913	Thank you, Minister. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go, colleague Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34914	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 2. The bill proposes prescribing military education as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia and as an act of particular importance for the defence which is in the power of the Ministry of Defence. I wanted and suggested that Article 2 be further defined and Article 6 which reads - military-professional training provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on improving the work of local self-government. The improved work of local self-government is not an easy task, especially when you take responsibility over them from the hands of irresponsible people who for 12 years in Vojvodina 16, destroyed our society, weakened the power of the state, who led their own people to a beggar stick. This paid project was given special attention to borderline local self-government, so that as soon as foreigners entered our country, they made it clear that we were weak, incompetent and we depended on them. As I come from the New Prince municipality, whose northern border forms part of the state border towards Hungary in the length of 21.2 kilometers, while towards the east along 14.9km goes to the state border towards Romania, I witness all the misdemeanors that the previous regime has specifically done towards strategically very important areas that have been forgotten for them, even from a point of military-security point of view. In one part of his inaugural speech, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said: "We were a country and a people for which it had been stopped for a while, but we also found something good in that. Today we are never late and nowhere, nor will we be better and more peaceful for us and our children in the future. We will achieve a better and more peaceful future only with a modern, strong and powerful army, as a guarantee of peace that the Serbian people most often did not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34915	Thank you. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Here you go, pal Susec.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34916	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our army has a long tradition when it comes to military education of future officers and officers. The famous victory of the Serb army in the Kolubar Battle has entered the history of war, and the tactics of the Duke of Zivojin Mišic in the Kolubar Battle are also being studied today at the world's famous military academys. We are a small country, but we have proved to everyone in the region, in Europe and the world that we are a country of honest and honest people, that we are a country that loves its country and that they know that and how they defend it when they need it. The law on military education is of paramount importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore we need the continuous improvement of our members of the Serbian Army. Our members of the Serbian Army and the members of the MUP have proved that in every situation along with their people, either in wartime or in peacetime. Let's just think of major natural disasters, more specifically the May floods in 2014, when our members of the Serbian Army and the members of the MUP have been day and night saving our citizens and their property from major attacks on the water line unremembered over the past 100 years. The law on military education is in the interest of the state and the people, and with the constant modernisation of military weapons and the training of members of the Serbian Army that has been intensively conducted by the Ministry of Defence since 2012, we today have an army that cannot, by its courage, know-how, perform military skills to mate any army of countries in the environment, and that is what, respected citizens of Serbia, which many today bother. Many today are bothered by Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia, many today are bothered by economically and economically restored and powerful Serbia. They are bothered by strong Serbia because they are used to obedient Serbia because they are used to obedient Serbia led by these honest and honest before us until 2012. At the very end, I would like all the members of the Serbian Army and their families to wish for a lot of health, happiness and every good, to do everything they do daily in the interest of maintaining peace, security and preserving our state borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34917	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34918	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the honourable ministers with associates, the amendment to Article 2 that I have submitted is in absolutely logical connection with the amendment that I have proposed to Article 1. In fact, although I have already said in the earlier discussion that this law is one of the laws that took care of social equality, the potential of this line, which is important as a principle, as the basis on which the whole law will be founded, is very important for both the military and the Republic of Serbia. In this amendment, Article 2 proposed by this amendment prescribed that military education as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, as a matter of particular importance for defence, be placed in the power of the defence ministry. Although it is placed in the power of the Ministry of Defence, it also allows for equal conditions, what I was talking about last time, those who want to attend high school can equally compete, regardless of their social status, and indeed by accepting this amendment would facilitate the application of Articles 49, 50 and 52. At this point, I would like to pay attention to a member of this 52nd law, which you propose, where it says that basic integrated academic studies, which are implemented at university and school for admission to professional military service, receive persons from citizenship and high school students. Otherwise, candidates, both, who are accepted and enter the quota defined by the ministry, are funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think this social equality component is well embedded, but because of some future time and importance this law has, this amendment could only complement what is already practically in the law and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34919	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34920	I have submitted the amendment because I consider it necessary to pay particular attention to the effectiveness of resolving all personal issues. Human resources are the capital to be kept and increased, and members of Serbia's Army personnel service are the ones most expected in this matter, that their knowledge and work should contribute to the improvement of the operational and functional capabilities of all units and institutions of the Serbian Army. That is why it is very important to work on harmonising the functioning of the organs of staff services at all levels. The most important issues particularly raised in the area of human resources are the improvement of the age structure of personnel at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, the addition of models filled with professional soldiers and the identification of nomenclature marks and records of professional soldiers and civilians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34921	Thank you. National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34922	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on military education which otherwise defines types of military education and I would especially point out – military professional training relating to reserve officers and means their training, training of reserve officers. Also, my amendment refers to the protection of vulnerable groups. I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia Army has three missions of its own. One of these missions, which is the third, refers to rescue, assistance, evacuation, the care of the population affected by elemental disasters and other disasters. As the armies of Western democracies prepared for new challenges, the challenges of climate change, until 2012, the regime had a direct impact on the safety and life of citizens, who could be hit by elemental disasters, by selling 874 boats and, not just boats, they sold Mi-8 transport helicopters, which also played a major role in saving the population. In contrast, by fulfilling the third mission, the Republika Srpska Army has shown great courage and determination, it has always shown that it is with its people and its people and its citizens, especially when they are affected by elemental disasters. I will show a photograph from the village of Velika Polje, from Obrenovac where soldiers, airmen, rescue an eight-member family among which is a one-year-old baby and a 79-year-old woman. The second photo also shows great sacrifice and saving the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34923	The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Libushka, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34924	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers of Associates, Officers of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on military education, which adds the 6th position -- military-professional training, provides for Serbia's overall development with a specific focus on the development of the school system. Article 2 of the proposed law proposes prescribing military education as part of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and as an action of particular importance for the defence which is in the power of the Ministry of Defence. The proposed solution is based on the needs of education, training and military professional training of persons and citizens and professional military personnel according to professional profiles and needs of vision, gender and service of the Army. Through military-professional training, knowledge is being acquired that will certainly improve our country's defence system. The harmonisation of the education system with the needs of military education, which is of particular importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, also introduces dual education which will certainly improve the work of the Ministry of Defence. By harmonising and modernising the school system, the Serbian Army will get a professional shot, ready to meet all the requirements of modernization and equipment with modern fighting systems, where it will be more trained and able to work, both in the Ministry of Defence and in the dedicated industry, where there will be an even greater guarantee of stability and development of the Republic of Serbia, but above all there will be a guarantee of peace so much needed for the better and better future of our children and generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34925	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Granny, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34926	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 2. The bill adds the 6th position – military-professional training provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on the development of health centres. This amendment further defines the specific objectives of military education, and today I will talk about the out-of-body fertilisation of military insurance women. Out-of-body fertilisation procedures are based on improving the natural fertilisation potential of couples. They are directed to make contact with male eggs and semen, shortening the way to their merger or bringing them into direct contact. The essence of all out-of-body fertilisation procedures is to cause ovulation and the addition of prepared seed to a larger or smaller range of egg cells, regardless of whether it is artificial or fertilising by in vitro conditions. There is also a very significant place to reduce the reference to out-of-body fertilisation, i.e. a regular and preventive examination of the cervix. It is known that uterine cancer is most commonly seen in women of younger age, who have not been achieved as mothers very often and therefore it is very important that all women regularly leave for checkups at least once a year. At a session held on 23 March this year, the SOVO Management Board decided on conditions and how to exercise the right to carry out the biomedical assisted fertilisation procedure. Thus, women of military insurance companies have the right to no more than four attempts to treat infertility with VTO fertilisation procedures on the burden of compulsory health insurance, regardless of whether they have been achieved as parents before, with the fact that they have at least 44 years of age at the time of application. In addition to everything the state is trying to increase the birth rate and natural growth in Serbia, the percentage of VTO performance is 33%. Despite this small percentage of conception, however, families are allowed to enjoy parenting and women to accomplish as mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34927	Thank you. National MP Milan Krivokapic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krivokapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34928	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers and representatives of the BIA, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law, which adds the position of 6 – military-professional training provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities. Opinions 1 through 5 define what military education, education, training, and training involve. I think it is important to further define that military-professional training provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's 160-year-long military school tradition is closely linked to the process of creating a modern Serbian state and its army. The modern military education system of the Republic of Serbia as part of the educational and scientific system of the Republic of Serbia organises and implements the work of staff education in areas of interest in defence and other areas relevant for the achievement of the needs of members of the defence system in line with the workaround and competences of the Ministry of Defence. By passing the Law on Military Education, we allow the military education system of the Republic of Serbia to successfully provide the projected needs of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia with a staff of appropriate profiles. The interest in military schools is getting bigger and bigger because young people are aware that this call is much more than a job. Schooling in military schools and academias, not only formal education is achieved, but values are adopted that make young people grow into quality and honorable people. In order for professional members of the Serbian Army to be able to carry out all tasks and tasks and to meet the challenges during their working century, they must be educated and perfected constantly. In view of all the above, I must stress that Article 2 requires further definition to be made by military-professional training...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34929	I thank my colleague Krivokapic. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34930	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, gentlemen of the BIA, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 relating to professional training, which affects stability and security in the country, in the extreme line, to the ultimate goal of the development of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the draft law suggests that the regulation of a network and the type of military school institutions in the area of secondary and high military education. The proposed solution is based on an existing network of military schools, as well as military institutions and special legal entities established by the Republic of Serbia, becoming an integral part of a network of secondary and military schools of the Republic of Serbia. I want to remind you of one thing, which is that the Military Academy has changed throughout history and adapted to a complex process of military education. In 1833, Knez Milos Obrenovic sent 30 young men to school in Russia to study for officers. Then, at the end of 1837, it was decided to open a three-year school in Serbia, and in 1848, the importance of educational-military personnel and the necessity of re-launching the School of Officers was more potent in Belgrade. Shortly thereafter, Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic approved the opening of Artillery School on 18 March 1850. The act is the foundation of military schooling and therefore Serbia's army was adopted on 18 March as the day of the Military Academy. I wanted to remind you of this history, because last year and this year, some 300 million dinars for military academy work, will be renovated not only in the runway, but in the sports center, accommodation capacity and shooting. Raising living standards, quality of life and work enables better and more successful education of cadets at the Military Academy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34931	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bagby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34932	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, fellow MPs, Serbia can boast a long and rich tradition of military education, and the development of military education has always been linked to the development of a Serb army that has brought on its back the burden of free and defence wars, from the first half of the 19th century to the last years of the 20th century. We are witnessing that Serbia's military education is currently undergoing fundamental reforms aimed at profiling a modern, efficient and functional system of military education, which will meet the needs and tasks of the Serbian Army, and the proposed law on military education completes the process of harmonising rules on military education with education regulations in the Republic of Serbia, making military-school institutions an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia today, following the rule of the DOS parties, because of its overall development, is also extremely important and the improvement of military education and education as many quality young officers as possible, as Serbia has experienced during the DOS authorities that the international government in its early retirement has given it a large number of, freely speaking, best officers, warlords, those who carried the fight against the terrorist KLA and NATO forces, such as the decimated numerous armored artillery, engineering, anti-aircraft units, which have been destroyed or resold still the correct and usable fighting assets and military equipment. It is obvious that US coursemakers and listeners Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac, led by the defence ministry, had severe consequences for Serbia's military, but fortunately, the DoS party rule ended once and for all. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence, headed by Minister Alexander Vulin, is on the right track to return Serbia's army to its rightful place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34933	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Matić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34934	Thank you. Article 2 I have submitted the amendment talks about military education of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. I also spoke in the previous amendment that I submitted to Article 1 about the importance of education, that it is of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, that education is directed at the defence of the country, that we train higher professional staff, officers, and therefore they train further to that last perpetrator within the Serbian Army. I will again say what military education means through a good example, an example from exactly four years ago, when great rains started to rain and when we were caught by a great flood on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At the time, my municipality was, or the center of the municipality, an island surrounded by water and the first to come to our aid was then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who came by military helicopter, brought first aid. Immediately behind it came members of the Serbian Army to help citizens primarily to save ourselves from the disaster that hit us in 2014. Divers came, those who know how to handle boats, those who know how to behave well in the conditions of floods, floods and unforeseen circumstances. They managed to save a lot, both from the people and from the material resources and, thank God, we had no human casualties at all that year. It is also a great contribution to the professional people of the Serbian Army who, together with us, have managed to overcome all these crisis situations and... (President: Bring the end of fellow Matic. )......................................................................................................... We just save ourselves from the flood. Since there's no more time, I'll finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34935	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34936	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted the amendment in order to point out the importance of training and training of members of the Serbian Army, as well as the development of scientific and research work and expert personnel for the needs of defence for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, our President Aleksandar Vucic, while he was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, recognized the importance of the defence industry and, back then, in 2014, there were considerable funds allocated to invest in the area of the dedicated industry. Today, the dedicated industry can be praised by the large volume of production. In fact, we have a production that takes third place in Europe by production from the field of the dedicated industry, behind Germany and Switzerland. On the one hand, we have employment of workers, and on the other hand we have different inflows in the Republic of Serbia's budget based on direct taxes. Our soldiers today have equipment that has left experts from the West without a word. A well-known British magazine on military issues praised the military modernisation project, which was first presented at the 2017 "Freedom" military display in Batajnica. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which recognised the importance of investment in military equipment, even Jumko from Vranja received a job sewing uniforms, and the government of the Republic of Serbia predicts that each soldier must have at least two pairs of uniforms, which did not happen from JNA. So he also got the job "Jumko" from Vranj. On the one hand, we have "Jumko" Vranje, located in southern Serbia, on the other hand, in the west we have "First Partizan" Užice, "Milan Blagojevic" Luciani, "Freedom" Cačak, "First Five-year-old" Tristenik and "FAP" Priboj. For central Serbia there are Zastava Kragujevac, "The First Spark" Baric, "Teleoptik" Zemun, "Moma Stanojlović" Batajnica. These are factories in the area of the dedicated industry that represent the point of development of the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34937	Thank you. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34938	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to point out the importance of increasing investment in military education. Military education continues to develop at the crossing thanks to Serbia's economic stability and prosperity. Apart from investment in the Military Academy, we are witnessing investments in the Military High School worth 30 million dinars this year. These are used to reconstruct the approach plateau, change of carpentry, afternoon surfaces, sanitary nodes, molecular paintwork, installation of plumbing and sewers, electrical installations, renovation of common rooms, reading rooms and libraries. Investment in military education is an investment for the future of young generations and I cannot, without expressing my satisfaction that the interest in enrolment in military gymansia is greater than ever among young people, especially amongst members of a more beautiful sex, which of the 48 students enrolled in school 2017/2018. the year makes up one third of the students of the total number. They show exceptional results on the entrance tests, as well as success in the course of schooling. I'm particularly proud that two students attending military gymania are from my local self-government, the Sokobanja. In voting day, the SNS will support the law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34939	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34940	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I have proposed an amendment to Article 2. The law on military education, which highlights the importance and economic potential of military education. Military education everywhere in the world has significant economic potential. As well as civil, education is a serious financial business, as this implies that the state and institutions involved in education function economically. Certainly when you educate generations and those generations become serious economic people, then you understand that economic growth and development are the essentials of the development of an economy. These new members of society certainly help to make the economic order better and work better. The transfer of military knowledge has all the characteristics necessary for the education process, and these characteristics are particularly reflected in areas where this knowledge and this military-based education can be applied and applied in the civil sector. This civil sector, i.e. that part of the society that takes and consumes services that comes from military education, which is primarily thought of by me in the field of medicine, is an exceptional brand that is not only of importance and of respect for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the region as a whole. The Military Medical Academy, and especially should be highlighted by the Faculty of Military Medicine, represents an institution of enormous importance and reputation that can be classified in rank with the most serious medical institutions and universities. When you look at international colleges of reputation, they talk about their references, but at the same time they talk about the time you spend at a clinic in the course of education for a doctor. Six months is the maximum you can achieve. Children at the Military Academy, i.e. at the Faculty of Medical Sciences practically grow, live, learn, school, with a combination of theories and practices at the Military Academy. It's something that's practically amazing, and based on that experience, we get a reputation, and that's the reputation of the Military Academy from people who are educated in these institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34941	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of the Prince's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34942	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister with Associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to the Law on Military Education. For the sake of the public and the viewers who are following this assembly debate, let me just say that this Article 2 has the view that military education is of particular importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia and in this Article 2 are defined clear terms of what all military education includes. This amendment is the logical continuation of my amendment to Article 1, where I have made a clear finding in this law, that this law wants to achieve the ultimate effect, which is that military law and military high school institutions can become an integral part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Directly regarding higher education is scientific and research work, some fellow MPs mentioned in the previous discussion, so also in scientific and research activities in the area of defence, it is necessary now to comply with the Law on Education through various government regulations and that part of military research, scientific and research activities. The preconditions are created because the National Law on Scientific Research already recognises scientific and research activities in the field of defence, so it takes the next step that the unquestionably Ministry will take, which is to coordinate scientific and research activities in the area of defence with the National Law on Scientific Research. This will complete the entire higher education system in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34943	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue work at 2 p.m. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Miloevich, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34945	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on military education. In Article 2. I would like to add the 6th position to the bill, which reads: "military professional training provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector". This amendment introduces the improvement of the private sector as one of the goals of military education. As we can see, military education is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the above, it is absolutely necessary to adhere to the principles of creating quality personnel, because that is where our future lies and further development and progress. I think we need to perfect our knowledge and progress. We can only do so if we share our experiences with others and learn from others. It is the only way we will reach professional, trained personnel capable of ensuring the safety of the Republic of Serbia in the best possible way. Many speak of the military being unnecessary in the 21st century and the decisions that contribute to the progress of our military forces are criticised. If we look at the example of developed countries of the world, EU countries, but also countries on other continents, we will see that the practice of military development is something that is understood and does not necessarily encourage conflicts. The need for education is essential in all areas, including the military. Peace and stability must be ensured, and the army has always been and remains guaranteed to achieve these goals. With the progress of the education system, we will also provide peace in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34946	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Birmanevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34947	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected officers, respected colleagues, the Law on Military Education, as a law that will further advance the already existing quite high-quality and for every praise, for the pride and discipline of every citizen of Serbia, education in the military of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 2 of the Law further defines the objectives and, above all, is aimed at the objectives that are certainly present and that are years ago, from the past, if we go back 200 years, 100 years from the First and Second Serbian uprising, the First World War, Balkan wars to the present, the state of the region, the situation in the Balkans has always depended on the state of Serbia, i.e. on the state and status of the Serbian military. Let us remember, Franz d'Epere, the commander of the Thessaloniki Front, pointed out in particular the Serbian army, a reminder, 140,000 soldiers took part in the breach of the Thessaloniki Front, in which the month will be equal to 100 years from that event, and exactly what Franz d'Epere said best defines our army, the Serbian infantry of the French cavalry is moving faster than the storm, they do not need any support, and they do not need any support for the reasons that they have made progress towards their homeland, towards the country of Serbia and on the basis of all these armies and all the commanders and commanders who have come from such an army acting in accordance with the legacy of the First and Second Serbian uprising, from the Balkan wars, the First and Second World War. What is also important for countries in the environment, is that the Serbian Army is on the right track and will continue in such a style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34948	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34949	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the importance of education is immeasurable to every society. The Department of Defense has just been an institution that has preceded us throughout the decades. There was always an institution that was moving forward, ahead of its time. In the previous year, the Ministry of Defence, along with the Ministry of Education, signed a very important agreement that introduced elements of dual education to the small door. This agreement, signed in 2017, allows students of five educational profiles at the Belgrade Air Force Academy to be educated according to a dual education model that will work in the future on the maintenance of MiG-29 and helicopters. It's about five professions, it's about occupations such as aircraft technicians for an aircraft engine, an aircraft engineer for electrical equipment, aircraft technicians for electronic equipment, which will work in the future to maintain our military aircraft, but also a mechanic for radar systems and a missile system mechatronist that will work on the needs of our anti-aircraft defense. This document, this agreement, also introduces two new educational profiles, is about weapons technicians and ammunition and missile system technicians, who will find their place in the dedicated industry when our education is finished. For the very end, I want to say next. I really want our University of Defence within the framework of the Military Academy, our Medical Faculty, our VMA to be the first in our country, when it comes to educational institutions, but also that our secondary military schools are really examples of how young people are trained in our country. In voting day, the SNS will support these really good legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34950	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivana Stojljković submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Stojljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34951	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, gentlemen officers, the defence system guarantees independence and territorial integrity, protection of national identity, security internally in every sense, and what is very important, economic, technological and cultural development. The house that's protected is rarely targeted by thieves, so is the country that has good defence, but unfortunately, it wasn't like that until 2012. We have heard about this for several days that the property of the Serbian Army has been destroyed, that our good officers and active military persons have been retired prematurely, that they have been denied the many rights that followed them and many other things that the citizens could hear, and they know, from my colleagues. Fortunately, this unfortunate time in Serbia's army has been far behind us for six years. Since 2012, our Army has been strengthening and restoring trust both within and outside our borders. In the past six years, the Serbian Army has been part of all the most significant but unfortunately the most difficult situations. Whoever had the honour, and I believe that many of my colleagues had that, too, and many citizens, to attend the airports and military parades of the Serbian Army, have realized how much the Serbian Army has regained its dignity, how much trust it has regained among citizens, and that is the best picture when seen in one place. It is not surprising, then, that more and more young people today decide to serve the army and that more and more young people decide to attend military education and thus serve their country. Of course, participation in multinational peace operations, which we have heard about these days, is also a readiness and a finality, and it is a confirmation of preparedness and completeness, our armies of Serbia and, most importantly, Serbia and the Army of Serbia become ambassadors of peace in the world. Well done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34952	Thank you. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34953	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, gentlemen military school officers is one of the basic functions of the Army. Over the course of school, the longest effect is on the situation in the military, as a professional officer works for about 30 years in the service. The Military Academy is tasked with training and training officers and cadets for appropriate duties in the family and allowing them to further improve. The Academy provides higher education and professional training, organises courses for reserve officers for the needs of the tribes of the Army. As an example, I will state that last year, the Serbian Army launched a procedure for the reception of 130 professional soldiers of the Sanitation Service. Working in military health institutions enables continuous professional training, the possibility of participation in foreign peace missions and study at the VMA High School of Health. Military training and training contributes to the achievement of the vision of development and, most importantly, the defence of the country, as well as security and stability in the region. Peace and security is something we must protect and cherish. It is no longer necessary for Serbian citizens to worry, they finally have a government that brings back to the people and the military what has been shamelessly kidnapped and shows the world that we are a serious country worth investing in. In the end, we must not forget that Sutanovac and his best friends sold out the weapons, that he was building barracks to sell them into impunity, and that he directly threatened them, without any face, pension and existence of all military pensioners. I will end up with the quote by Old Greek poet Pindar, who said – it is not difficult to destroy the state, it is difficult to place on firm feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34954	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34955	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, Mr Vulin, the Honorable Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2. The draft law on military education speaks of military education which is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment to Article 2 reads: "A military professional training provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving health conditions. “ As I am in the amendment to Article 1. The law on military education spoke about the medical college of the Military Medical Academy, so in this context I will talk about a military hospital in Nis. The Nis military hospital is the first health facility established in southern Serbia. The Nis Military Hospital was formed on 22 January 1878 at the initiative of the then head of the Sanitary Service of Colonel Vladan Djordjevic. In this hospital, 140 years old, 125 million dinars will be invested to purchase the most modern equipment. One of the most significant purchases is the purchase of a digital X-ray machine worth 50 million dinars. It's at the end of two endoscopy and microinvasive joint surgery rooms. As a donation of 25 million dinars, the Directorate of the Security Air Force is designed to build a facility that will allow VMA to have a helipad with the highest European and world standards, a donation from the Civil Aviation Directorate of 15 million dinars for the construction of the KC Nis helipad, which is close to the Nis Military Hospital. So the helipads will be at the service of both health care facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34956	Thank you. National MP Mihailo Jokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Jokic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34957	I'm going to talk about self-financed students and students I think are very important in military education. The structure of these self-financing students should look like this to me. A large number should be from foreign countries, because these are the foreign exchanges needed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the other hand, these are citizens' personnel and others are personnel for the dedicated industry. To make these self-financed anything more, military education must be quality. And in order for it to be quality, it has to be individually organized, with group work, and with as little frontal work as possible. Since it will be an international accommodation, this individual work and this permanent presence of teachers will allow every pietary, or every military school student, to advance according to their abilities. And the top of education and the basic goal is to allow the student to progress according to his abilities. When he progresses towards his possibilities, then he shows himself. The teacher appears at the moment when he reaches the wall where he cannot go any further. He has to help him skip that wall and go and develop according to his possibilities. It's very important, because of the practical teaching that military high school, that secondary military schools, to connect military colleges with the dedicated industry. Because it's actually a variant of the dual education that we're talking about and that will represent a solution for both our military and our economy, because these are continents that can't be separated. So, self-financed by those who can when they finish school and don't have to work in the military industry. They're like that in the army, and that's what we need most right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34958	Thank you, colleague Yokic. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague named Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34959	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, gentlemen officers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I, as well as the previous day, submitted amendments to this law on the education of the military with the aim of putting an accent on undeveloped areas. We all know and we are witnessing the previous period that the Serb tripod who saved our country is Serbia, which was the Serbian village, the Serbian church, the Serb army. That's why I always support all these proposals that put an emphasis on education in the military, because only the army that's educated, educated, there are people who are from the village, people who are from the city, and all the Serbs know they're very good, that they're great soldiers, we all want our army to be stronger, stronger and better together. Dear Ministers, you've given an accent to our people who were formerly extraordinary generals, who protected our country, such as Mr. General Lazarevic. With such people and with such people in education, we will have an even greater strength and opportunity to strengthen our army. I would once again invite all representatives, all MPs to come out and vote for this proposal because I think this amendment of mine with an emphasis on underdeveloped areas is to continue to help underdeveloped areas, such as the Municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, as it was done earlier. I would once again invite everyone and thank all people, and as a real Serb host, I would like to congratulate today, Djurdevdan. Today is the second day of Djurjevdan. I want our army to be stronger and more powerful in the coming period and to make our village stronger and better and that we are all in the same cause, to strengthen both our village and our army and our country to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34960	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34961	Mr. Minister, the information you shared with us today is important that military neutrality policy will be given its legal framework. It is also very important that, with a change in the law in which military neutrality would be incorporated, changes in the strategic document, primarily a national security strategy, and that the policy of military neutrality should also take its form in these strategic documents. These strategic documents adopted in 2009 and 2010 are not documents for an independent and independent policy. In any case, Serbian citizens do not want to be members of the NATO Pact. The majority of citizens on this issue gave a very clear and concrete answer, and the true nature of the NATO Pact and its role perhaps today, Mr Minister, was best described by KFOR chief in his statement, Salvatore Kuci, who said that KFOR is in fact NATO and who attacks Kosovo as if it attacked NATO. The fundamental question is and should be asked now to the people of the NATO Pact is Kosovo an independent state for you? Who do you think you're from, the territory you occupied after the bombing to defend? Did you step out of the status of neutrality, Mr. Kuchi, today's statement? Are you there what is written in Ahtisaari's plan, the chief and supreme authority and commander of KIM? The statement today's KFOR chief is showing the essence of NATO's 1999 bombing and the mask under which the alliance appeared in Kosovo. No, KFOR is not KFOR, some neutral mission, KFOR was said out of its mouth today by its commander, the NATO Pact. That is why it is necessary for the military neutrality policy to be in all the strategic documents the Republic of Serbia adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34962	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Janjusevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34963	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected BIA representatives, respected colleagues, professional military training is certainly in the function of economic development, and in this part I will again mention a good example from the dedicated industry, the defence industry of Serbia. In Uzic, Požega is one of the most modern shooting ammunition plants, which has invested 90m euros and will soon employ around 470 workers and is a project of Serbia's defence industry under the title "Defense-Technology Base Serbia-Vision 2020". When the dedicated industry has $154 million in 2012, in 2017 500, and in 2020 it will cross a billion, as a consequence of the "Vision" policy. When 400,000 people are out of work from 2008 to 2012, this is the result of commission and thieving policy. I'll finish with three quotes. The French historian Ernest Deni told Serbia's Army -- Serbian successes are explained by the scientific supremacy of their officers and the moral value of their soldiers. Norwegian Colonel Hasten Angel - we came with little respect for them, and we return full of admiration. We saw a people calm, confident, benevolent. We found the best soldiers in the world, brave, obedient, sober, patient, willing to sacrifice life for the country and a national idea. Boris Tadic – what do we need an army for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34964	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. () counterpart Karadzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34965	I thank the chairman. Minister of Military with Associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the motion that the Law on Military Education is very good, but I have submitted this amendment in order to highlight the importance of the fact that the woman in Vojsca is having more and more. It is currently over 20%, which is 6,666 women in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, of which 364 women are officers, 124 sub-offices and 1,135 soldiers. It is a large number, which is due to the Serbian government's policy, because it has recognised and supported women to decide on this honorable profession. The law shows that the defence ministry and the Serbian government understand the importance of investing in military education. I'd like to remind you once again that 300 million has been invested in the Military Academy and 30 million in the Military High School. I would also remind you that Minister Vulin, as Minister of Labour, has proposed the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, that we adopted it, and that we have thus significantly helped women who want to be realized in the role of mother. What I would especially like to praise is that he has continued this path and that the Ministry of Defence is now involved in increasing the birth rate, and I would particularly like to emphasise that the Fund of Military Insurance is financing as many as four attempts of out-of-body fertilisation. We're proud of the Army of Serbia. We're proud of all the activities of the Department of Defense. We hope it continues that way. We want Serbia to be a strong, strong, powerful and military neutral country, as it deserves to be and what it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34966	Thank you. National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Janjušević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34967	Thank you, Chairman. The duration of the Serbian army and the trust of the Serb people in their army has been measured for centuries. It bothers me very much when they say you should restore the dignity of the army, you need to restore trust, so it was never a question and it was never a question. It was only a question of whether politicians wanted to understand and accept, and the people always knew it. So, all personnel policy solutions are short-lived and ours is just to provide legal frameworks so the military can do what the best they can and knows, to protect the state, to protect the Serb people. With regard to our amendments, they were more repairs in some nomotechnic sense. That's why I always stick to those key things, that politicians don't bother the military, but that only these legal frameworks are the best we can do and we know how to give them further work. In the end, we have lauded so much about the minister himself, but he also understood how good an instrument is for the military and for its political work, and on the site "vulin.rs" we have many good contributions related to the military, and one of them is from the formal academy, which has a musical background for the official anthem of the Serbian Movement "For the Life of Serbia" from word to word. I thank Minister Vulina for recognising the importance of the Serbian army, but also the importance of the work of the Serbian Dvora Movement in preserving and respecting the military and our state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34968	Thank you. National MP Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Serbian Army, Mr. Minister with Associates, an amendment to Article 3 which is a play of words on appearance, as the word "especially" moves and this "special" comes before "the nature of the military service". The speciality is particularly speciality and personality, unusuality, atypicality, originality and it should and therefore is there, to include also legal regulation, honor, patriotism, honesty, dignity and traditions of the army of the Republic of Serbia. I have no doubt that there is, but I insist that this will be legally followed and marked, so that, in addition, Mr. Minister, on Friday, after Mr. Nog's presentation, confirm that what happened to us would not happen at Andric's wedding, for the celebration of Army Day, is witnessed by the traitor and spy General Momcilo Perisic. Mr. Secretary said it was because there was no judicial verdict. Why 15 years after the report, and the evidence, I could now pick up your computer and show you how the VBA did the evidence, caught in the act, why isn't it there? That's another question, but to stay in the context of what we're saying and Mr. Minister, and here I am, that honor of dignity and honesty should be, let's accept this amendment so that we don't have that kind of thing repeating ourselves at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34970	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic and MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34971	Well, how important is this topic that we are discussing and how interested everyone on this topic may also be in the context of a book published under the title "Parados", which was authored by Mile Isakov, a former member of the Serbian government who witnessed all the events that took place in 2000 and after 2000, which says in one part of that book – After the murder of criminal Zoran Djindjic in the government, then US Ambassador William Montgomery came to the government, where he was proposed by members of the government and the ruling party that they think that the best Prime Minister would be Zoran Zivkovic, on what, I paraphrase Mileta Isakova, Montgomery said – I do not care, i.e. America does not care which fool you will put on the head of the government, it is of interest to us that the minister of military service be Boris Tadic. And it's one of a series of evidences about how important the military is and how much everyone else is interested in, and we know how things are going and later on, after Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac came in line. So there was always an interest, an interesting area of foreign ambassadors, or other countries. And the more natural he can get out of it is, William Montgomery was once an ambassador to America, now he's an adviser to the Serbian Progressive Party, the more natural it would be -- Montgomery's always Montgomery.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34972	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34973	I thank the chairman. Well, the fundamental amendment is absolutely nothing that could radically speed up the quality of the proposed law, but what is important is that the technical correctness of the text of the proposed law is seen, and in this direction indeed the MP group of the SPS has tried to make its contribution to both grammatically and in any other sense, the words first of all have the most lexical text of the law. So in this sense, I just want to point out that we are simply confirming and ready to support the amendment and that we will vote in favour of this amendment, and therefore also of the law, we want to show you that you have in mind and facts that are related to what might be improved, and that is at least the part that we have repeatedly indicated, that through harmonisation of legislation, Serbia and EU legislation do not resort to anything that comes out of the Serbian language and Serbian grammar. However, we need to take care of the preservation and our style of writing and our way of expression and in that sense to adapt both terminology and everything that relates to the eminence of our language, when it comes to the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34974	Thank you. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) Col. Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34975	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are already on the third day of the debate in detail on the draft law on military education, although it is less important than the other proposals on the agenda. We all agree that this law is necessary since it is in force, i.e. the applicable law governing this area is law on military schools and military and scientific research institutions adopted by the Federal Assembly of the SRJ in 1994, as amendments and additions from 2005. The deadline for alignment with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was December 2008. So it's been 10 years without this law being passed, and today it's being passed by emergency procedure. We support the need to regulate the matter of military education and to comply with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that this law should exist. On this bill, through a number of amendments, we have made certain proposals both termologically and essentially related to co-operation with civil military-school institutions. We want the Law on Military Education to finally be passed and to be good and it is in the interest of all of us, both in the interest of the military and in the interest of the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34976	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34977	We in the SRS hope never again that a period that has been since 2000 since 5 October, so for some decades, will not be repeated when it comes to the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, it was not the army of the Republic of Serbia that saved any of the ministers, it was not the government who saved them, it was the honor and honorary officers and, of course, the soldiers who were in that period. This is a very important topic for us, and we have approached it very seriously. The amendment that I made on behalf of the SRS, Mr. Minister, is essential in nature, given which winds we live and exist today, you had to accept this, because surely the law would be better quality. In paragraph 3, that is, in Article 3, paragraph 1, we said that military education achieves a specific objective arising from the nature of the military service and the specific conditions under which jobs are carried out for defence purposes. After the word "defense", we add "the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state". This is very important for us to find ourselves in the Law of Military Education because you see that in the Republic of Serbia today they are cutting apart both the alas and the crows. If you would accept this and become an integral part of this member, or the Law on Military Education, we would have additional guarantees that no separatist movements would appear that he already has. They are helped both by domestic five - part workers and by the influence of some of the services on the side, and this is especially true in this period in which we live, as well as in the coming period. This was to be accepted because territorial integrity is as important as being regular pensions, being good, that our youth and everyone else who is working is busy. It is important for us that our country really has a good situation when it comes to this territorial integrity. When it comes to the sovereignty of the state, we also feel that special attention should be paid, so it is a little illogical that this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34978	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34979	As we have spoken during this debate and about the Law on the Army, it is clear that the defence policy of the country, military and political alliances does not define the military. That is why we need to help our armed forces to be even more equipped in the future, to protect our country absolutely from any insolence and attempt to insinuate the bloodthirsty NATO members. That is why we insist, here is the day we are discussing, that it is necessary to start the process of Serbia's membership in the ODKB. But I, Mr. Minister, am going to talk about that concept, that part of the Serbian Army, which is always unknown to the public, which is the morale of the army. We can absolutely say from a long time ago that the morale of Serbian soldiers has always been at the highest level and hence that of the verse of Njegoshe: "The fight is not a light weapon, but a battle beats the heart into a hero." And in order for this to be even better in the future, it is necessary and related to this amendment to Article 2 that you are absolutely focused as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop giving and guaranteeing and helping failed public enterprises, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is helping the electricity and its satellites, instead of giving for military-technical training of the military, to invest in full professionalisation and to the end, therefore, it is not carried out until the end of our army. I mean, in the selection of future professionals in the military, we're just going back to this Njegoš verse or everything that famous General Živojin Misic said. In that sense, we can welcome that you have returned what is most important to the military, which is an officer of morality, but certainly you must, Mr. Minister, as Minister of Government, fight against some pro-Western NGOs being wiped out of the budget, to be given to the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34980	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Nenad Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 3 of this bill. We've been listening to a lot of things here these days, but I haven't heard from the representatives, primarily the ruling majority and the minister's representative, on what and on what doctrine our military education is based on. Is this a doctrine that is close to NATO's standards or is it a doctrine that is close to the Russian way of war, as it has been for many years, starting from World War I to the fall of Yugoslavia? Furthermore, I am asking the Minister of the Military – is it true that military history is the subject of our military schools that is being studied academically? If that's true, then it's a disaster and it has to change urgently, because military science, military education, soldiers must be fed on bright examples from our own, and even from other peoples' history, why not. It is known that a common soldier will better understand and understand what to do with a patriotic song than from some lectures in the field of tactical and tactical training. Furthermore, I would like to ask you -- is there any possibility that part of our military schools, are high-ranking, dislocated from Belgrade? As far as I'm aware, it's mostly in Belgrade by now. Since I come from Nis, know that Nis was once the centre of the Second Army, and that Second Army area in the territory it covered, was the largest army area in that former Yugoslavia and the most strategically important area. Nis was the only city that wasn't the capital of one of the republics, which was the center of the then Second Army area. Nis has a lot of barracks. We're thinking, and we think there's a possibility that part of military education could move to the city of Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34982	Thank you, fellow Savik. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34983	Thank you. Let me get this straight. When in this House, you decide when it will be, we will adopt a national defence strategy, then we will adopt doctrines from it. Neither you nor I will do it, it will be the General Staff. So we're going to say what kind of doctrine we actually want based on strategies that we're going to adopt very quickly. It depends on you, MPs, when it will be. We're going in, by the way, in a public debate, we're starting. The whole public can get to know each other. When this is over, we come before the MPs with a strategy. The MPs will say what they think. From that, the General Staff will draw conclusions and make a doctrine, so it will be the only possible Serbian doctrine. As far as the subject of military history is concerned, he is bound and taught, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34984	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34985	As far as Article 3 is concerned, which speaks and says - the specific objectives of military education are the education and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens to carry out tasks and tasks from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, as well as the development of scientific and research personnel for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. With this amendment, we have proposed that later – the needs of defence, go on and on – and the protection of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state. A colleague today spoke about what a strong army and a strong state meant in the Serbian people. I'd just say it again if it were in Serbia, always being said how strong the state is, it's as strong as its army and vice versa, as strong as the army is, it's also strong and its state. If we are to say that we now have a respectable army, a strong army, then it is on the move of the state to protect its very territorial integrity and sovereignty by finally asking, on our most painful issue, when it comes to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, to implement the UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the return of our members to the southern Serbian province. On the other hand, what has always been, and are our members of the army exactly the people of the people, to protect our people where they are left behind again at this moment. It's about Kursumli. We have a situation to find out from the media, and also in conversation with citizens, that the scepters from Kosovo and Metohija regularly invade the area of the Kursum municipality and steal wood. Before that, a number of them were arrested, but they're mostly released without any further legal procedures, and they've been acting aggressively lately, and we can find out from people who live there and who are on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34986	Thank you. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Hey, buddy, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34987	Thank you. Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said today, the truth is, as strong as the army is, it's so strong and the state and it's true, it stands. This is also seen by the position of Serbia in the world today. You will agree, Minister, with us, today Serbia is more and more respected both by the neighbours and by the Western countries. Serbia is no longer a state to talk to as a subject, but as a partner. Today, Serbia hears what it thinks. Today, the countries of the region, some, where war conflicts have been in the past, are also important what Serbia thinks and today negotiates and talks with Serbia. Today, orders are not given to Serbia. Today Serbia is not subject to the papers it needs to sign and accept, so it is said to it – you want force or soap. Today Serbia is wondering about attitude and opinion. Both the Serbian Army and President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, which makes up the majority in both the Serbian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will remain that way. Serbia will fight to preserve peace, to preserve its territorial integrity, but we also need to know what life policy is, that life policy is what we have today, to talk about, not war. We don't want to rattle weapons, but the Serbian Army serves to preserve the integrity of its country, to be there, I say it is there if any Serb needs it, anywhere he lives and will always know and be able to keep each of our Serb heads in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34988	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34989	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are in a situation where we can talk about investing in military education, investing in scientific and research work and developing new technologies. Today we are in a position to say that we have raised the competitiveness of our dedicated industry. The dedicated industry is a significant branch of our economy. Today we will employ in the Serbian Army 70 engineers, while the previous regime fired not only engineers, not only fired, but hired no engineer. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia is equally concerned about the active members of the Serbian Army and the military pensioners, which is the housing of members of the Serbian Army who are willing to give their lives for the country. In the previous period, we have provided housing for members of the military, the police and the Security Service, and we have assigned more than 7,000 apartments. In the second and third quarter of 2018, the construction of 7,400 apartments in six locations will begin: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Vranje and Nis. However, other Serbian cities also showed interest. In this way, residents will be taken care of, not only by active members of the Army, but also by military pensioners, because the conditions of lending are extremely favourable, and the prices of apartments move around 500 euros per square, which is extremely favourable. Even the Municipality of Kursumli, where I come from, won the first owners of the apartments. As for members of the Serbian Army, investment in the Army of the Republic of Serbia not only returns the patriotism that the previous regime has taken away from us, but raises the entire economic activity of our country, so only how many construction companies are engaged in the construction of apartments, how many workers will be employed in residential construction. Serbian citizens knew when they supported our President Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34990	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Popovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34991	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, supplementing this article, with the 3rd position I have proposed, are further defining the specific objectives of military education. Namely, ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and is the primary and strategic objective of this law. Our country's development primarily relies on investing in the professional training of young people and investing in infrastructure. In addition to the construction and reconstruction of large clinical centres, we have very significant investments in health institutions throughout our country. The KC Serbia's urology clinic received the state-of-the-art apparatus for treating kidney disease, for which the health ministry has singled out more than 48m dinars. This machine is so-called. The gold standard in this area of medicine will be treated annually by about 2,000 patients. The acquisition of this apparatus is a confirmation of the Ministry's decision that all health institutions are receiving the most modern diagnostic equipment and apparatus. Also announced is the opening of a prostate centre in KC Serbia, preparations are being carried out with experts from abroad and this centre will be like other European centres of this type. In KBC Bezanjska Kosa, a new digital X-ray machine has been released for which the state has singled out over 20 million dinars, and a new scanner and magnetic resonance will be obtained by the end of the year. Also, a modern radio-therapy apparatus for stereotoxic radio-surgery of the entire body with accompanying equipment is scheduled to arrive in Serbia this year, so-called. X knife will be placed in KC Serbia, in a building that will be built on two levels. Every day, this apparatus will be able to radiate up to 30 patients and will significantly shorten the radiation time, and it will take five days instead of four weeks. By investing in medical institutions in our country, the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it is seeking to develop the country in general and raise the standard of living for all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34992	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of Radičević's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34993	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on military education, where I propose to add attitude 3, which reads: "Achieving specific objectives of military education provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to industrialisation." The specific objectives of the country are certainly in the dedicated industry. The products of the dedicated industry are largely financed by the state and can be a cornerstone of industrial development and not only by direct business, but also by winning new technologies, as well as by increasing capacity. Although it seems at first glance that investment in the dedicated industry is a major outflow of capital, if we look at it a little bit better, we see that it's not. Investment in the dedicated industry provides new knowledge and experience to be used to address civil society problems. Research results in finding new materials, new energy sources, as well as new ideas for energy transmission. The well-being achieved by the development of the dedicated industry is immeasurable. That is why we need a new professional frame that, based on the experience of older generations and new knowledge, as well as new energy, will contribute to the development of our country, not only in the defence of the country, but in increasing industrial production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34994	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? colleague of David's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34995	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, amendment to Article 3. I submitted the bill in order to further define the specific objectives of military education. In addition to the general objectives of education set out in the regulations on secondary education and education and higher education, military education achieves specific objectives such as training and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens for the performance of jobs and tasks from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, as well as the development of scientific and research work for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. Several political, economic and security regional initiatives aimed at preserving peace and stability have been launched in Southeast Europe. European integration, the development of co-operation with all key actors of the international community and the development of regional co-operation are the key foreign policy objectives of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia is defined to further strengthen co-operation with respect for military neutrality policy. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34996	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34997	Thank you. With the amendment I have submitted, I wanted to emphasise the importance of the Eurointegration process for the reforms we are conducting in all areas of our society. Since our main goal is Serbia's EU membership, many of the activities carried out by parliament and the Serbian government are currently concerned with achieving that goal. That is why I want to point out the importance of the active involvement of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia in the process of implementing the SAA that came into force in 2013. For this reason, I would also like to cite joint activities of the Ministry of Defence and the EU which are extremely important in the context of Chapter 31, which is a common foreign and security policy. In 2012, the Security Procedures Agreement for the Exchange and Protection of Secret Information and the Agreement between Serbia and the EU entered into force in establishing a framework for participation in EU crisis management operations. Along with the adoption of the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, a legal framework has been circled and it has been possible to participate in activities within the framework of the EU's common security and defence policy. In 2013, an administrative Treaty on the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia with the European Defence Agency was signed, with which we participate in a number of initiatives, and in 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion on the accession of the concept of EU combat groups. By including the Republic of Serbia in the concept of a common security and defence policy, the EU is improving the foreign policy position of our country, has a positive impact on the position in international organisations and on the contribution that Serbia will be recognised as the subject of establishing a security regional and global environment. I fully support all joint activities of the Ministry of Defence with EU representatives, which I have already talked about, and I believe there is room for their promotion in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34998	Thank you. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My friend Krlic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u34999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't need much time. I just want to remind you that on today, eight years ago, Professor Died. Svetozar Stojanovic, one of the largest professors of the Faculty of Philosophy. Why am I talking about him? Because of the sentence, of the many philosophical thoughts he has spoken, but this one is very important to me – in the people to whom we belong, says Prof. Stojanović, apart from the freedomist survival and the Quincept tradition. As right as he is sometimes shown in this House. The poor are those who today accuse the generals and officers who defended the country, who gave their lives, gave their careers and gave their freedom. With that, they accuse you of putting those generals and those officers in the education system. Who else are you going to do than the most honorable? Heroes don't choose time, they choose events. I'm exposed to such situations. I'm so glad you're acting exactly the way you're supposed to act. They need those who are right to educate future generations and future children in Serbia's military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35000	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35001	Mr. Vice President, the former regime's party has not taken care of the moral training of our academics. She unfortunately kicked him out of our academics' teaching plan and program. Thank you, Mr. Minister of Military, Vulina and Commander-in-chief Alexander Vukic, for returning this teaching class to the curriculum and program, so that the Serbian army can regain the moral values that many of our friends and God and enemies admired. How much the Serbian army possessed moral values in the great war and how much it contributed to the victory of the war, along with many of the US Foreign Ministers in 1915, Mr Robert Lessing, who also said, quote -- when the history of the great war is written, its brightest section will be called Serbia. It's a finished quote. That is why moral education, and especially the tasks of moral education, such as training in the spirit of Serbian patriotism and Serbian patriotism, remains extremely important as the backbone of the Serbian army tradition. The Serbian Progressive Party and High Commander of the Armed Forces Aleksandar Vucic and you, Mr. Vulin, will do everything possible to restore the honour, reputation and pride of the Serbian army, so that it can be modernised, because without such modernisation there is no modernisation of Serbia for which the president of the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of high-home MPs and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen of the former regime, the principle of moral education and action is one of the most important principles of military education, remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35002	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35003	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our gross domestic agricultural product is participating in the country's total GDP with almost 12%. Percent, that's a lot. It's nominally small. So, a country that produces between four and four and a half billion euros of GDP from agriculture. With these natural resources, you could do far more. In this agriculture GDP, our plant production participates with 70% and livestock production with 30%. In Europe, it's the other way around. If we want to get close to the standard of EU countries, we need to be similar to them by both agricultural policy and income and income structure. So this area where we have a 70 plant production, livestock 30, and they're the other way around, that space gives us a chance to add that GDP. So if they turned the thing around and had one conditional throat on each hectare, that GDP wouldn't be from a four-billion-dollar farm, it would go between eight and nine billion. In that sense, there would be more money for the Army, and I believe that we will not do what those who went out of the session did to walk. So, we will not reduce the number of soldiers, we will not as Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic retire officers, we will not reduce the number of armored vehicles, we will not reduce the number of tanks, we will not reduce the war technique, but rather we will see that the relative environment is capable of being military or armed, technically equipped, so that we can deter our enemies from possible attempts and military pressures on our country. In the end, if we don't have a strong economy and a good modern armed army, maybe we won't need anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35004	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Dickie, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35005	I thank the chairman. Article 3 discusses the specific objectives achieved by military education, arising from the natural military service and the specific conditions under which jobs are carried out for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. In order not to be just sweet-talking, now gentlemen of the officers, and a little critical reference to what the Serbian Army can face, and the consequences may be quite a failure in the education and training of professional soldiers. I will quote the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, from about ten days ago, perhaps a little less. It says -- it can't happen that when you get a general inspection into a unit, half that unit isn't there and not because they're doing something, but because they know they can't overcome certain physical and other obstacles. So what do we do with moments and other things? From these words of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who recently spoke to media representatives, Mr. Ministers and gentlemen generals, must learn lessons. It doesn't matter now which unit of Serbia's military is involved, but we can't let this case become a phenomenon because if we allow it and we go over it tomorrow, gentlemen generals, the same members of a unit face difficulties and war conditions may think they can and may flee from the front. So, with military training and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, we must achieve the goal of creating such officers, officers and all other members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army who will be able to face up to all the challenges of their profession, that they never think of hiding and fleeing from the general inspection or any control body in peace or, God forbid, from the enemy in the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35006	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35007	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, and this amendment is heading towards connecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with military education. I proposed adding to Article 3 the position of three, which is said to - achieving the specific objectives of military education, provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on social equality. The draft law on military education defines military education as part of the education system of the Republic of Serbia and that is what makes the essence of the bill. The proposed law provides for the possibility that, if the need for a particular education profile is indicated, departments which will be mixed together and which will educate a particular profile may be formed. It is clear to all of us that when a profile is educated which is needed to mean additional security for those who are being educated, it means faster getting a job, which is certainly the result of achieving social equality, and this amendment is going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35008	Thank you. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35009	Thank you, Chairman. Respected representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the Honored Minister, I am honored that today we have the opportunity to discuss together such a proud portfolio and its essential elements. One who is always available to his people, not only in those extreme situations and least desirable when war or some state of emergency is the Serbian Army, which is a pure and unique example of security and security within us. In our country, military equipment and weapons were produced, many high-ranking officers were disembarked, we were simply one military industry. And imagine now, one day, somewhere in the beginning of 2000, and everything as something is happening in those years, the leaders of the yellow company came and went back, demoted, destroyed Serbia's Army, melted and drowned in the white world for their pockets. And then it's repeated about 2007, 2008 and 2009, and you realize that they didn't just sell walls and buildings that were left alone. Imagine, for example, that you are an economist, an accountant, and the director of your company comes and sells your computer, your registrars, all inventory, and expects at the end of the year to make a balance, level your accounts and, of course, make a profit. Well, that's not possible, gentlemen, and it's not real. And that's the situation that has hit Serbia's army. Fortunately, the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, is counting and taking care of the empowerment of the military and its reputation in the world, education, preparedness, training and equipment. Accordingly, I am submitting this amendment to be complemented by Article 3 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35010	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35011	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as far as the Ministry of Defence is prepared to invest in the development of education talks and renovation of the Military High School, where the petitioners of the Ministry of Defence will have excellent conditions for education. This will mean a number of enrolled students, more departments and new directions, which will satisfy the needs of the military, as well as the needs of those children, because they will live and train under good conditions in their country and have the highest quality professors. For the first phase of investment in military high school alone, more than 30 million dinars have been allocated. The papers cover the replacement of carpentry, floors, installation of plumbing and sewers, renovation of classrooms, reading rooms and libraries within the military gymnasium. More than 300 million dinars were allocated to the Military Academy this year. At the end of 2017, the Ministry of Defence started infrastructure works to ensure better living and working conditions for cadets and elders in this higher education facility. All of this is done to improve the educational capacities and development of the Serbian Army, which will give citizens greater security and give them greater confidence in the defence system. Therefore, the proposal for a law on military education deserves absolute support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35012	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35013	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my previous presentation, I will continue to present good examples of how the economy is connected to the military and vice versa. "The flag of Kragujevac weapons" – the Serbian government has adopted a conclusion that allows a new factory for the production of military non-combat vehicles called "The flag of a field vehicle", i.e. "The flag of a tervo". In this way, a vehicle will be introduced into regular production that is wanted by the armies of Serbia, the MUP and other non-civil users. Under the Department of Industry's patronage, a functional model has already been done. Since most parts are produced in Serbia, the Serbian Army will receive a modern and cheap vehicle. The launch of production for the needs of the Serbia-MUP military, as well as other non-civil institutions, also opens the possibility of exporting these trucks in a basic or upgraded version. First of all, to countries in the environment, but also to those with whom Serbia has traditional economic and military co-operation, such as the countries of North Africa, the Middle East and South America. Next example – "Jumko" ad Vranje. Under the orders of Mr. Vukic, a project to equip the Serb army and each soldier, according to regulations, must have at least two sets of uniforms. The job was given to Jumko. By doing so, each soldier will have at least two sets of uniforms, which has not happened since the time of the Yugoslav People's Army. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry, together with the leadership of the "Jumka", with members of the Army of Serbia and the General Staff, have made appropriate plans for new uniforms, in the first place members of our special units, military police, scouts and all those who have special tasks, which are intended to have a special uniform, with the aim of adapting, as in the world's armies, to their needs and tasks. Every investment in Serbia's military is investment in both the local community and the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35014	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Lucic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35015	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, education during life or professional training of professional members of the Serbian Army is a unique system of their continuous training for the application of knowledge, skills and skills necessary for inclusion in the work process, which is related to a specific duty. Professional trainings are organized and implemented through career training of officers, command and staff courses, foreign language courses, teaching courses, telecommunications and IT courses, logistics courses, in the field of material and financial business, methodical courses of teachers, trainers and others. In this way, as well as training and training of civil servants and citizens to carry out the tasks and tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, we get capable personnel, ready to respond to the challenges and tasks required of them. With the development of scientific and research work and professional staff, we come to the improvement and modernisation of education in the defence system and through individual research and creation, funded by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35016	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Cokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35017	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Mr. Minister, gentlemen, you have absolutely support for this law. And the government has the support of this majority, because the law is written in the best possible way. It was written by the most professional people in this area. We are trying to fix it with our amendments, as far as possible, to make our contribution within our capabilities and knowledge, unlike those who have proposed amendments which are now not here, in which it was written, is deleted, and then used the time allowed to explain, in order to criticise the government, ministers and even the president himself, Mr. Vukic. What I want to ask you, Mr. Minister, is about the place, and I come from Smederjevska Palanka municipality, next to the spa Palanački acid there is a barracks, one part before World War II, and the other part, when the barracks were expanded, since 1974, when the assembly of the municipality assigned military land to use. Today, when the machinery industry is completely or quite suffocated in the Smederjevska Palanca, which was the backbone of our development, we find the perspective in the Palanic acid spa. Please make use of the land, since it is located up to the spa, either for the needs of the Army or for the purpose of the development of the spa, not for some third purpose. Of course, since there are no important facilities there now, until recently there were tanks and weapons and tools transported to "The Iron" Smederevo. To say one more sentence, the delusion is to plant it here that it cannot melt the alloyed steel in the ironworks of Smederevo. The Smederevo Irons produce carbon steel, and it melts almost all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35018	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35019	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, gentlemen of the Serbian Army, the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence of Local Self-Government, with the Office of the Mayor of Leskovec and the cabinets of all the presidents of the Jablanic District Municipality is very important. This is seen in a large number of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons. I feel free to say that the number in the city of Leskovac is the largest in Serbia. The centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government in Leskovac has, over the last four years, directed 527 candidates to volunteer military service with weapons, while at the Training Centre, which is also located in Leskovac, totaled 2500 soldiers. A large number of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons, the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government, thanks to the popularity of Serbia's military in southern Serbia, as well as its continuous affirmative messages, information, local TV and schools' uninterrupted emphasis on advertising material. In particular, the award of thanks and badges by the Ministry of Defence to soldiers who voluntarily served their military time with weapons when the mayor of the town of Leskovec is hosting, and the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for the Local Self-Government of Leskovac organizer. So far, more than 150 thank-you cards and badges have been distributed in the Assembly Hall of Leskovec, with the presence of all local televisions and all electronic and printed media that have contributed to a large number of candidates in their objective and affirmative exhibitions. Such a division is just in preparation, when thanks and badges to the Ministry of Defence and the mayor of Leskovac will be re-distributed as part of the town's celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35020	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35021	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, in this Article 3, which defines specific objectives, as well as all that are the specific objectives of military education, I added one special position concerning Serbia's development, i.e. to encourage these specific objectives and Serbia's development, but with a permanent fight against crime. What do we really want and want as ambassadors and as authority from you? We want a country that will be a stable partner, a guarantee of peace. We want a country that will be ready to negotiate at any moment, but with the view that no one ever thinks that this country negotiates out of fear, on the contrary, a state that negotiates for its courage and is ready to remain on the path of preserving peace. We certainly need a strong army to do that. Keep doing this job that you started with the president of the state, arming the Serbian army, restoring morals, because it automatically means that we will not have any new "lights" again, some new "storms", some new "martian pogroms" and all that unfortunately in our past we may have too much. I would simply like to express my gratitude to you, dear members of the Serbian Army, for all of us Members of the SNS, and I am certain that most of our colleagues sitting in this room, for all that you have endured in the past, for all those humiliations that you have proudly presented and have waited with dignity for some better time for the Army of Serbia. Be assured that these times, we see, slowly and come, and that all of us present together with you and together with our President and Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to build a better future for Serbia's Army, which automatically means a better and safer future for our children and for all our countrymen in Serbia and the neighbourhood. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35022	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. My colleague Repac, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35023	Thank you very much. This is the third amendment I'm putting up with when it comes to military education. It refers to improving health care when it comes to achieving specific goals of military education. This law regulates the objectives and principles of military education. The goals are education, training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The goals are achieved through education and through the quality of the teaching process. Students go to VMA, which was founded in 1844. He's got a medical school in his system, and he's training military doctors. Longer educated civil sector doctors for the needs of the state defence system. The goal is to create experts to solve medical problems, master research methods, prevention, diagnostics, therapeutic methods. The aim is also to develop acquired knowledge in different fields of medical profession and science. To ensure top-level medical education and to contribute to the improvement of both military health and health care in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you and your associates for the association of military medical education, on that bond with the civil sector. Thank you for your involvement, for your efforts, because I see it's very difficult to go from chaos to harmony. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35024	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Markovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35025	I thank the chairman. I'll be very brief. I'm really sorry that the great experts across the street are no longer with us. They probably have better things to do, but that's something to say about them. This amendment, therefore, to Article 3 of the proposed law, is, I would say, a logical continuation of my amendments to Article 1 and to Article 2 of the proposed law and, as well as to previous amendments, a potential for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development, and I don't think I have to stress in particular how important modernisation is, especially when it comes to modernising Serbia's Army and the defence system. So, a strong and capable army, well-trained, well equipped, the army is something we should strive for and something that tends to each serious state, which directly contributes to the preservation of peace and stability in the region. As my esteemed counterpart Filipovic said today -- peace and security are a prerequisite, a key precondition for political stability. Political stability is again a key prerequisite for creating a good investment environment, therefore for economic development, for attracting new investments. By attracting new investments, we get new jobs. This therefore leads to overall economic growth and improvements in citizens' living standards. It is therefore important to have a powerful and capable army that everyone will respect and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35026	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35027	As part of our debate on amendments, the MPs of the SRS pointed to our key objections. We haven't had any excessive objections to some of these laws, but there are three key objections that can actually be brought under each member and under any bill. We, in the SRS, are absolutely against participation, and we have to repeat that, our soldiers on international missions whether they are in the organisation of the EU or the UN. We know exactly what these people have to do, or what they're doing. Peace missions work on the ground and we have the best example of what happens under the auspices of the Eulexa peace missions in Kosovo and Metohija, and how many Serbs were killed by both guilty and debtors, and no one naturally responds to it, and we simply do not want our soldiers to participate in such dirty things. As far as military neutrality is concerned, gentlemen, you should know, and I hope you know, that the military neutrality of a state that is the size and strength of Serbia does not depend on us and you know it well. Whether we are militaryly neutral or not, it will be decided by someone else, and it is obvious that there is a major push on NATO's side to be under their control, and we Serbian radicals say that Serbia must urgently go to ODKB to seek, to ask for us to be admitted there, because this is the only way to preserve our territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state of Serbia. What's also important is that we draw your attention once again that you need to take much more care of professional soldiers, that you can't have professional soldiers finish working time when they're still in full strength, that you have to stay in the army until retirement. (President: Bring the end, fellow Radeta. I'm done, thank you. I'm only asking for an answer to those two questions. One is related to the beating of Shipar in Kursumli and the other – what will you do with these Serbs with KIM who are already seeking to be soldiers in the Serbian Army in June, and they do not yet have... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35028	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vlahovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35029	Thank you, Your Honor. With further economic reforms, speeding up European integration, strengthening the rule of law, investing in education and culture, the government of the Republic of Serbia remains committed to improving the quality of life of all citizens and citizens of Serbia. Conditions have been created for the establishment to be based in 2018 on sustainable and healthy public finances and for the acceleration of economic growth. In the 2018 budget, the government allocated 120 billion dinars for capital investments. Another important indicator of the government's responsible economic policy is the fact that our country's budget is more than six billion dinars, and we know that a deficit of more than 60 billion dinars was planned for the first four months. This is an extraordinary result, but also an obligation for the Serbian government to continue working towards projected growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35030	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35031	Dear President, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to touch the proposal for a law on military education, a law of special importance for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, a law governing education, training and military training, as well as military training for the needs of defence and the Serbian Army. Guided by special principles, the legislator has regulated the area of secondary education and education and higher education in such a way as to establish an efficient and successful system tailored specifically to our education and military system. The adoption of this Bill, which fully respects specific military education, would complete the process of harmonising the rules so that military school institutions would become an integral part of the educational system of the Republic. I believe the citizens have recognised the employment of the Ministry of Defence and Minister Vulin in modernising the equipment and organisation of the Ministry. Serbia's military realised in the previous period a whole series of activities significant to the Republic of Serbia. Ensuring a land security zone, hiring the Serbian Army in multinational operations, controlling and protecting the sovereignty of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, drawing up a draft national security strategy, are only some of the affirmative and extremely successful activities that the ministry has carried out, respecting the necessity of adopting this bill, with the importance it will contribute to the overall education system, sufficient reasons are to support this legislative proposal in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35032	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35033	Thank you, Your Honor. Here is another of my illogical amendments, all in an attempt to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts in the economic and sustainable development of our Republic. Article 3 The bill proposes the regulation of specific objectives of military education, which include, in addition to the general objectives of education, specific objectives arising from the specific nature of military education. As far as my amendment mentioning sustainable development is illogical and has nothing to do with the 2030 Agenda and sustainable development is just saying the purpose of the Sustainable Development Goals – is to direct and coordinate national public policies towards a common vision for humanity. For the purpose of 16 it is said: peace, justice and strong institutions. In the absence of lessons learned from some millennium goals, sustainable development objectives include a specific objective that is to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, to provide access to justice for all and to build efficient, reliable and inclusive institutions at all levels. That's exactly what our government is doing and this ministry is doing and this bill of law. For all my colleagues who submit illogical amendments like me, just to say, you don't hate all those who are jealous of you, they're jealous because you're better than them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35034	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35035	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of quality education, of course, including military education in direct connection is with the overall development of the country and with different aspects that will certainly be particularly supported by the state when it comes to strategic access to quality education. We have already talked at this session about the different aspects he plans to underline and to particularly support the Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia from 2020 to 2030 and those relating to support for co-operation between the education sector and the economy sector and those related to lifelong learning and improvement, but also those related to international co-operation. One of the important aspects in line with this strategic document that is currently being prepared concerns those programmes that allow not only our staff to be further educated and improved abroad, but also that allow foreign students to further school in our country. When it comes to this type of co-operation in the domain of education belonging to the defence sector and the security sector, we have so far had an extraordinary tradition. The fact is that many people who have been educated in our country come from really different world meridians, then retain extraordinary memories, and not only that, the strong belief that there are high-quality people here and that they learn quality things here and that there are experts formed here. These people today and tomorrow have absolutely no problem working with our people and working with our country in every way. When it comes to business co-operation, we have come across a wide open door all over the world based on this kind of strong good impression and so far, and there is no reason not to support all our capacities this kind of cooperation, this kind of good results and in the future. The abundance of excellent foreign investments in our country today that are directly due to this kind of good impression and strong impression that we leave on the international agenda are a sure provision that these claims are not without cover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35036	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35037	Thank you, Chairman. The integration of anti-discriminatory norms into the education system is crucial for the adoption of a system of values that promotes tolerance and respect for human rights. The respect for human rights and the effectiveness and effectiveness of the defence system have been united in principle that the armed forces of one country represent all parts of society, including ethnic and other minorities. In this way, the principle of non-discrimination is promoted and confirmed, so that representative armed forces can serve as a model for the whole society, which is particularly important. In affirmative actions, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia aims to achieve greater representativeness of the armed forces is also an increase in women's representation in the Serbian Army, which is highly commendable. Furthermore, according to the official position of the Ministry of Defence, constitutional and legal provisions on the ban on discrimination have been incorporated into those parts of the legal framework relating to resolving the status issue for professional military persons, members of national and religious minorities. These provisions are the same for all members regardless of religion, race, gender, nationality, or any other personal property. Also, the Human Resources Management System is aimed at achieving the objectives of equal opportunities and predictable careers. Finally, I would like to point out that the competitions for military education in the military education system are public, the criteria for receiving are precise and clearly defined, and the candidates are not declared to be national or religious during the selection process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35038	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The word is from a colleague named Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35039	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian Army officers, achieve specific education goals, and when it comes to military education at all, of course it is in line with the 2030 Agenda that we had the opportunity to hear from my colleague, but they are focused on specific tasks from special holders of certain activities when it comes to the Serbian Army. When we talk about this education at all, we can say that we have a part of formal education, which we have heard a lot about when it comes to military academy but we also have a part of informal education that is very important, these are certain seminars and training and work on development projects that are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. What is important to say is that today's budget in 2018 is 25% higher than the 2017 budget for Serbia's Army, which shows the acquisition of equipment and the revitalisation of existing facilities, but cannot do so without experienced and educational and professional personnel. What's also important to say is that since 2012, over 500 tanks in the US company JUSTIL have been stopped, the release of patriot officers according to NATO lists, the encroachment of military barracks that exist today with specific plans and master plans, precisely defined what should be done with them. By 2012, we had the opportunity to see that in the barracks alongside domestic and wild animals that lived, children from primary schools had the opportunity to handle weapons that were lagging behind from war operations, to steal all the funds that were a murderous fact, but in 2012, it was stopped by the very responsible policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which SNS and Mr Vukic took part. Today's management of barracks that are not put into commercial use can be a good example, which is building university centres for the implementation of certain Serbian Army development projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35040	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we talked a lot about how our weapons, military equipment and military techniques were destroyed after 2000, and I would like to point to a phenomenon that was also very dangerous for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. You know that a whole series of decades in the former SMIP, later the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia was a security service. After 2000, a new so-called Democratic and so-called The pro-European government wanted to introduce some new concepts into our strategic documents. One of these concepts was the concept of opponent. It has been said that Serbia has no more enemies than we can possibly have an opponent. Since we no longer have enemies, someone has concluded that the security service at the foreign ministry needs to be abolished. You are certainly familiar with the fact that for years until 2012 we from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent virtually unencrypted telegrams to our embassies in the world, as well as our embassies in the world to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here in Belgrade, to virtually unencrypted telegrams, open telegrams, or plain telegrams. You can imagine how harmful it was for the safety of the Republic of Serbia and how much we were before other countries, we were more or less inclined to show them as in fact an extremely non-serious state, a state that should not be respected, because once the security service was abolished, then you know that it is very difficult to re-shape itself, it is very difficult to find an adequate co-operation network. After all, people will no longer engage, when they show that the state is unserious, or when you show that the state is unserious, it is very difficult to find people even though they were both honest and upright and educated and willing to serve their country if they do not see that their country is serious. We now have a serious state and I want you to continue with such a serious policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35042	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. My colleague Obradovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35043	The esteemed representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, were firstly 15 days in the centre of Novi Sad during the 23rd April Serbian Army day of the year. The Centrom was passed by members of the First Land Army Brigade, while the cadets of the Military Academy performed an exerciser, the skill of gun-tightening created by military operations with respect to machine rules. Their skills were closely followed by many Novosadjans, among whom were the most young and of course the mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Milos Vukevic. Military equipment and techniques have been placed on the market, and the weapons of the Two hundred and forty-seven single rocket division for the anti-aircraft defence of the military police unit have been exposed. After the defile, military ships of the river fleet crossed through the Danube while the citizens were able to track that part of the ceremony from the New Sad Bridges. Dear colleagues, this event is one of the indicators of overall development that we seek. How much healthier and better the situation in Serbia's Army has been since the country was taken over by SNS with Alexander Vukic at the helm. It is proof that we are making progress and that there are no more affairs, various satellites, pastures and the like. Jelizara Smederevo no longer serves to melt weapons rather than to economic development of Serbia. In one word, the Serbian Army is Serbia's pride again, and so it will be with all other spheres of life. My amendment is about to highlight Serbia's overall progress, which is the political goal of SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35044	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Here you go, colleague Zeleg.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35045	I thank the chairman. In order to improve the quality of the proposal for a law on military education, which has been proposed before the MPs, I have proposed an amendment aimed at adding Article 3 to Article 3 to achieve the specific objectives of military education that encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The law achieves specific objectives from the nature of the military service and specific conditions under which defence operations are carried out, as well as training and training of professional members of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, civil servants and persons to carry out tasks under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. In addition to the regular activities of the Serbian Army, which are seen in the preservation of territorial integrity and the integrity of borders, as well as the preservation of security over Serbia's sky, which was particularly raised by President Alexander Vukic's involvement in the process of obtaining six MiG 29 aircraft and putting himself in the defensive position of our air force, the Republic of Serbia Army, although technically mutilated in 2014, due to the unconscious and punitive management of ministers from the previous regime, managed to put ourselves in the post of defence of cities from floods, which hit our country in 2014 and, together with headquarters for emergency situations of local self-government and citizens, defend our cities such as Shabac, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade and managed to defend the thermal power plant in Obrenovac, thus safeguarding the energy stability of the Republic of Serbia. The education of civil servants and citizens for defence affairs in the domains of the Ministry of Defence helps to improve and coordinate the activities of the military and state authorities, as well as local self-government in defence situations against natural disasters and the removal of their consequences. In order to adopt the proposed amendment, I call on fellow MPs to support the proposed amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35046	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35047	The esteemed chairman, respected representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, is one of the additional goals that I wanted to define with my amendment that is precisely the goal that the Republika Srpska Army is setting before itself, which is stability and integration of the region, i.e. regional integration. In order for Serbia to be a leader, such as it is, and to continue to do all that is expected of leaders in the Balkans, it must have an army strong and stable, but above all dedicated to the basic goal, which is Serbia's stability, Serbia's stability as an economically strong but also militaryly strong state. Serbia's army is certainly militaryly neutral and that is what gives it strength and gives it the opportunity to act exactly as a military-neutral army, in line with the interests of its citizens and in line with the interests of the Serbian state. All those who live and who expect the state to protect them know that this army, led by the President of the Republic, led by this ministry and this government, has a future and what is done in this period, is to strengthen Serbia's army, but only in accordance with what is the historical heritage, which is to strengthen the military for the sake of defence wars, for the sake of action in peace, for the sake of action in defence situations and, most importantly, we also act in missions around the world as an army worthyly and honorably representing an army, or military uniform and all those tasks it gets ahead of itself. The history of victory, which has earned as a basis for this army, of course, and in the coming period will be a condition for an even better, stronger and more modern army of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35048	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35049	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I must also say something in this presentation today about the period when the Serbian Army has been systematically destroyed and, together with it, destroyed, our own state. So, between 2000 and 2012, we witnessed a systematic collapse of this system. For these reasons, I would ask Mr. Minister what kind of ministers were at the time led by the Ministry of Defense, who unfortunately spoke of their own army as being excess? What kind of military doctrine was it based solely on destroying our military technique? I'd like to ask you if the correct information is that over 500 tanks and over 200 hoodies have been drowned, destroyed in various ways, what in our country, what in Slovakia and the Czech Republic? If that's the case, and if that's true, I would invite you, Mr. Minister, to call these people to account because it not only has to be punishable by law, but, if that's true, it's done against our country's national interests. What I would also say on the basis of information I have from the Ministry of Defence is the introduction of the "Lazar 3" and the NORA system into the regular use of the Serbian Army. What I would also like to praise is the modernisation of the Eagle and Super Galeb aircraft, with the introduction of modern, electronic techniques into the plane itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35050	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, Dr Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35051	Thank you, Your Honor. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The law on military education in order to participate in further defining the specific objectives of military education, because I believe that when we talk about achieving specific objectives, we must specifically think about the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the health system. What I must stress on this occasion is that it is truly commendable that our military, our Ministry of Defence has huge support from the Supreme Commander and the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and that, with the work of each individual of the Ministry of Defence and at all of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this year we can also praise that our members of the Republic of Serbia Army have been provided with an increase in salary of around 10%. Of course, it is not something to stop at, but it will likely increase in a certain percentage over the next period. It's a lot of work in all the fields. I would also like to commend that if solidarity aid had been introduced, the diaries had been increased. Then more than 700 apartments were divided. It is also being built to provide better conditions in military high school, in military high school boarding schools, in restoring the Military Academy, improving housing capacity, restoring military health, on everything that has been destroyed in the past 12 years, by 2012, and progress is now being made more visible and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35052	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go, colleague of the Prince's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35053	Thank you, Chairman. The law on military education regulates the objectives and principles of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Military education achieves specific objectives stemming from the nature of the military service. The specific objectives of military education are the training and training of professional members of the Serbian Army to carry out tasks from the defence ministry's competence. After 2000, by coming DOS to power, our country is experiencing a planned and systematic destruction by the worst monster that could ever have hit Serbia. When we talk about planning and systematic destruction, we all witnessed how much it was present when it came to the military and not only that, but the total humiliation and degradation of the Serbian Army. By coming to the authorities of SNS and Aleksandra Vukic, everything changes from the root. First of all, the state is fiscally consolidated, the economy is based on real and stable finances, whose foundations were hit in 2014 and 2015, and there are conditions for the Army to restore everything that is hateful, ignorant and reluctantly destroyed. Then, to further modernise the army, restoring its reputation and what has always been in the hearts of patriots, the pride of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35054	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35055	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the concern of education, training and training is the key to further development and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. Worried about the continuity of military education in terms of the training of middle and high-level personnel in the framework of military institutions, defence universities, the Military Academy, i.e. The VMA and the Medical School within it. The primary base is secondary military schools that can establish high schools, secondary schools and mixed schools. In this way, it will ensure a high level of expertise and quality of work by military health institutions, which are open both to the treatment of Serbian citizens and also to the transfer of knowledge, work organisations and the latest knowledge from the field of health. It is noteworthy enough that VMA together with its Medical Faculty is a reference centre for treatment in which more than five thousand different diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are conducted. It is proposed that teachers and co-workers teaching in clinical subjects and practical teaching at VMA and other health institutions, in accordance with the issued work permit, perform both scientific and research work and provide health services at VMA as a teaching basis of the medical school VMA. The organisation of training in military-school institutions is in accordance with the law in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and the authorities of military school institutions teaching under accredited study programmes in accordance with the law governing the basics of the system of education and training of citizens of the rules on higher education and rules on defence and military service rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35056	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Ivana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35057	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on military education defining the specific objectives of military education, and the proposed supplement to further define the importance of considering the importance of traffic integration in the functioning of the defence system. As the specific goals of military education are seen in the education and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens, and the development of scientific and research and professional personnel for the needs of the Serbian Army, it is evident that such a bill is the backbone of a good defence system. It is also important to respect, above all, the profession and respect of all the elements of one system, and this time when I talk about traffic I will point out that it is of utmost importance for the quality of the performance of all tasks, which are due to the successful management of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, certainly telecommunications traffic. Starting with the fact that leadership at all levels in the Republic of Serbia in the past few years has been responsible for accessing problems and that, practically, by coming to the power of the SNS and the head of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, work with positive results has been recognised and the position of the Republic of Serbia in increasingly better places on world-renowned lists is visible. Through good bill proposals and responsible work on the creation and application of those are surely going into a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35058	Thank you. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35059	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the specific objectives of military education. As for the very need to pass such a law on military education, we cannot help but look back on our historical and military tradition. As I come from the Tupri municipality, I will try to point out the following historical facts concerning the Serb army and the Turkish barracks. In 1837, the first barracks building was built for the purposes of the turkey horse squadron, 1839 the first garrison infirmary was founded, in 1870 the first temporary military hospital with 20 hospital beds was established, in 1911 an artillery sub-office school which continued to work after World War II. Unfortunately for us, on April 8, 1999, this tradition was interrupted by the NATO Alliance bombing, when buildings of the guerilla barracks were destroyed and severely damaged. I am taking the opportunity to ask you, Mr. Minister, to initiate, in accordance with your powers, the decision-making procedure for the future of the guerilla barracks, because it is a great sin for it to continue to fail and because of the importance it has in the history of our army and in the history of Ćuprije. To remind ourselves, one of the four largest artillery garrisons, just beyond Zadar, Karlovec and Kragujevac, was placed in the Bohemian barracks until the fall of the SRJ. The NATO Alliance's aggression against our country in the Bohemian barracks was the stationary of an elite army artillery brigade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35060	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35061	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. The proposal for a law on military education is further defined as the objectives of military education, all in order to ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Military education achieves specific objectives stemming from the nature of the military service and specific conditions under which jobs are carried out for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. The specific objectives of military education are the education and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens to carry out tasks and tasks from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, as well as the development of scientific research staff for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. Schooling within the meaning of the Law on Military Education involves secondary education and education, which are implemented by military school institutions. The training involves all forms of education during the lives of professional members of the Serbian Army and state officials who implement military school institutions and units and institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. Education as a process for the adoption of knowledge, the acquisition of skills, the development of skills is an important segment of all social activities and an important segment of the development of the Republic of Serbia and my amendment goes that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35062	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? Nenad Mitrovica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35063	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in Article 3. The proposal for a law is added to bet 3. The amendment further defines the specific objectives of military education. The specific objectives of military education are the education and training of professional members of the Serbian Army, civil servants and citizens to carry out tasks and tasks from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, as well as the development of scientific and research personnel for defence purposes and the Serbian Army. Article 3 The proposal for a law on military education is proposed to prescribe specific objectives of military education, which, despite the general objectives of education, include specific objectives arising from the specific nature of military education and the special status of students, cadets, or students and teaching staff, which also apply the rules on defence and the rules of military service in the field of education. Students, cadets, or students and teaching staff in military school institutions have military status and special rights, obligations and responsibilities governed by this law and regulations on the Serbian Army. In voting day, I call on the MPs to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35064	Thank you, fellow Mitrovica. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? Dragan Veljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35065	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment, which adds item 3, further defines the specific objectives achieved, achieve military education and refers to the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with special reference to the rights of displaced persons. The Republic of Serbia is in continuity, institutionally and systematically making huge efforts and is setting aside huge resources to address the accumulated problems of this sensitive category, co-ordinated by relevant state authorities and special organisations. Let me briefly refer to the remarks made by MPs from the opposition over the past few days, which are primarily about lack of knowledge of the issue, arbitrary and flat-rate claims and wrong conclusions. In that sense, I would like to point out and point out one half-truth, an understatement that referred to the claim that young people from Kosovo and Metohija are being stimulated to go, that is, to be participated by the military, so-called. "Republics of Kosovo" and that they are not allowed to participate in our military schools. If there were well-intentioned criticism, then the MP who made such a finding should say that the Justice Ministry quickly identified such a problem and that integration was created somewhere in late October, in early November, and that already in April, the Ministry of Justice reached a conclusion and a mandatory instruction that all natural and legal persons from Kosovo and Metohija, on their request, could ask all courts, as a result of all courts, in the central Republic of Serbia, to be convinced that they are not being prosecuted and not convicted, and therefore this cannot be a reason for failure to participate in our military schools and military schools at all. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35066	Thank you, colleague Veljkovic. The faithful Radeta answered the line, although your colleague did not directly mention you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35067	My colleague Marinkovic, he said it wasn't exactly what I was talking about in this room. A colleague says it is not true that our young Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija cannot be soldiers in the Serbian Army. That is unfortunately true and it is confirmed by all the people sitting with the minister and the minister himself said he would see how many there are and if there is only one that the ministry will do everything to enable him. I am now saying, on Friday, I said what she said today, so there is this administrative obstacle, because in order for someone to be a soldier in the Serbian Army, there must be, among other things, a belief in impunity. Our people living in Kosovo and Metohija here in the central part of Serbia cannot gain that confidence because their residence is in Kosovo and Metohija. There, if they seek this assurance, they must ask for it from the Cypriot authorities, which, of course, they will not, and of course, the ministry will not accept some kind of paper from someone there, the quasi organ of that self-proclaimed state. There is a request from the Justice Department to find a solution to this problem. If they are not able to do so, here's to tell the Justice Ministry, Minister Nelli Kuburovic, how can this be resolved? So that, I repeat, is one administrative obstacle where the Court of Appeal should issue to every Serb from Kosovo and Metohija such a confirmation, if it is not guided on Serbia's territory, central Serbia against it, and if it is conducted by the Cypriot authorities, so it is only a recommendation for him to be a soldier of the Serbian Army. The only solution we have is for the ministers to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35068	Thank you, colleague Radeta. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? Bug Tarbuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35069	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, respected officers of the Serbian Army, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on military education, item 3 – The achievement of the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the efficiency of local self-government. The proposed amendment further defines the specific objectives of military education, which provide schooled, trained, capable of doing defence, security, at the level of local self-government. The defence system seeks to preserve, strengthen human resources, invest in continued efforts to improve the standard of living of members of the military, develop a system of education, perfecting personnel. Young people's interest in employment in the Army, in education, in military schools is indicated by citizens' confidence in the defence system, improvement in the education and qualification structures of staff, is one of the priorities and tasks of human resources management in all defence systems. In the day of the vote, my distinguished and respected colleagues please support this law and, of course, my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35070	Thank you, colleague Tarbuk. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35071	Let me get this straight. So, it can be served, regardless of being born in Kosovo and Metohija, you will get confidence either in the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, or in the Rasko court. In front of me, I have confidence issued on 16 March 2018, which is issued for voluntary military service. The Ministry of Justice has collected from the territorial authorities a copy of the assurances that candidates who have residence in Kosovo and Metohija issue, so I am reading officially – the Third Basic Court in Belgrade and the Basic Court in Rasko, and by order of the Ministry of Justice no. 7-00-000-69/218-01-52 of 28 March 2018, on the basis of oral knowledge of those responsible from the centre in the Kingdom. So you can come and look at it, we have all the convictions, the children can, if they want to apply, where they're more handsome, in Raska or in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35072	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35073	We're glad if that's what you say, Minister, but we had information that there are still some young men who can't get these proper confirmations. According to our information, you have two men now tied to the June deadline, I don't know if their problem is solved. So, if you get that kind of attitude from the ministry, it's good, it's good that you reacted, it's always good when you respond when we draw attention to it, because we really, Serbian radicals, especially when it comes to such important things for the survival of the state, such as the military, such as military laws, we are absolutely ready to help the government and draw attention to the problem and to point out how the problem can be solved. It could've been just as I suggested earlier, it could've been just as the ministry ordered, it could've been in Raska alone, it could've been only in the Third Court, it's completely irrelevant. It is important that citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija from this point on have the guarantee of the military minister that anyone who wants to be a soldier in the Serbian Army, that this can end and that the dispute that has been disputed so far, can be obtained in Raska or the Third Court in Belgrade. It is good, I repeat, that this is the case, and I believe that the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will accept it with pleasure and please and for this about Kursumlia, and when we are still, if we come to the next amendment, you also have to solve this problem as you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35074	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Slavisa Bulatović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35075	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen officers, representatives of the BIA, I submit an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on military education, and I propose to add attitude 3 -- the achievement of the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special focus on the rule of law. The aim of training in military educational institutions is to educate and train cadets and officers for appropriate duties in the service, in line with military missions and tasks, as well as to gain knowledge necessary for further training. Serbia can become a regional centre with its military education capacities through the adoption of this law and numerous activities in the field of military education, which is a strategic goal to work intensively, given that the military has a good teaching chamber, as well as study programmes. After years of experience and work under different conditions and historical circumstances, Serbia's military education is undergoing basic reforms aimed at profiling a modern, efficient and functional system of military education, which will meet Serbia's military education needs and tasks. Leading principles in the implementation of teaching, while achieving the specific goals of military education, are the obvious and continuous examination of new knowledge through practice, which contributes to the development and strengthening of the confidence of young people. Finally, Mr. Minister, on behalf of 1,500 workers, I would like to thank you for all the support you provide to the company, because 1,500 regular monthly earnings are a lot, not only for Vranje but also for southern Serbia. I believe that even in the time ahead of us, the co-operation of the Serbian Army and your ministry with the Jumko company will go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35076	Thank you, colleague Bulatovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35077	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the minister said in one of the previous talks that the budget for the Ministry of Defence this year is very large, especially if it compares with the budgets in the previous period, in the period from 10 to 20 years, which is very significant, especially for the general state of defence at the Ministry of Defence, but what we should pay attention to is the economic situation of every individual who is in the military, militia and other security forces. The ministry and government cared about it in the previous period, so we have a situation that all members of the military, militias and security forces have been raised in the previous period. What is very significant is that the announced construction of cheap apartments is under very good conditions of lending during construction, i.e. buying these apartments. These apartments will, above all, be built in large city centres such as Belgrade, Kraljevo, Novi Sad, Nis and Vranje. But I also welcome the proposal to build apartments in smaller cities, or smaller local environments, which I hope will come about in the future. This is very important, above all, for retired military personnel to welcome a dignified age in smaller environments, but it is also important for the retention of young personnel in smaller cities and smaller local communities. We've hired 60 members of the militia and security forces in the Northobanat County over the past year, and I think that resolving their housing issue would certainly lead to those in Kikinda and the Northbanat County staying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35078	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with the aim of being in Article 3. The bill further defines the objectives of military education, I have submitted an amendment proposing that the specific objectives of military education be ensured by the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the development of local self-government. The military as a guarantee of stability and progress is a fundamental basis for Serbia's faster development, and knowledge gained in the system of military education is a very important resource for growth and economic development. Modernization and equipment of the Army with which it began in 2012, the coming of the SNS to power, brought back the reputation of our army. Today, it is able to meet all the challenges and provide all the conditions for us to move peacefully through accelerated development. Thanks to the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Alexander Vukic, Serbia did not go bankrupt in 2012, although the previous regime brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. Now that the country's financial stability has been secured, when the state budget is in surplus, 600m euros are already being allocated to the military, and since the gross domestic product is growing permanently, more will stand out. Only developed countries can have a strong and powerful army, so in this direction Serbia as president is led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and as commander-in-chief, it does everything possible for the military to modernise and equip it with modern fighting systems needed to ensure peace and security for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35080	Thank you, colleague Jancic. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35081	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, the amendment to Article 3 is fully compatible with the proposed amendments that I have tabled. 1st and 2nd of this law, as well as Article 4, but about when we come to the amendment to Article 4. In fact, the issue of social equality that this law has been quite well resolved, Serbia's army has already shown in earlier practice that it has been taking care of this, with this only one more serious step in something that is noticeable that, in terms of the military towards the citizens and citizens towards the Serbian Army since 2012, this has changed dramatically, and that is, when you provide an opportunity, which is one of the key things of social equality, all layers of this society, from the richest to the least money, that they can equally attend from secondary military schools to high military schools, precisely because their status in education is absolutely secure, you provide an absolutely important patriotic component and status of the Serbian Army raises even more respect among Serbian citizens. On the contrary, everything that has happened since 2012, as Serbia loves and respects its army and wants to be militaryly neutral, also shows that there are more and more young people who want to serve voluntarily. So, I think it's time to slowly reconsider the possibility of introducing and compulsory military service, something perhaps more modified than some of the periods we remember. But in any case, the wish is clear and well-provided. The Serbian Army's co-operation with others is as powerful and powerful and as good as the military is educated and powerful and everyone will cooperate with it. Whether this will lead to faster closure of Chapter 31 or greater co-operation with the ODKB or with anyone else is much less important. It is important that the Serbian army is educated, created and operated on those principles that ensure the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. And whether we will enter the EU one day or not, it is a complete question that needs to be left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35082	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35083	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have proposed in Article 3. The bill to add Article 3, which reads – Achieving the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the efficiency of judicial institutions. Given that the objectives of this proposal are clearly defined, I believe that the principle of efficiency and in this proposal should be particularly apostropheeded in a direct and unequivocal manner. With SNS coming to power in 2012, improving efficiency, the quality of judicial institutions' work becomes one of the main strategic objectives, and the government of the Republic of Serbia is working zealously on it. The ministry of justice continues its activities on the court's discharge plan and speed up procedures, all to enable citizens to have a quick and efficient approach to justice. The results are more than visible. A million and 700 thousand old executive cases have been resolved, and another 500 thousand will be solved by the end of the year. In 2017, the number of old cases in 30 basic courts in Serbia decreased by more than 765 000 compared to 2016. Serbia has an excellent Law on Intermediation, which is in line with the highest European standards, and according to official data, already at the end of June 2017, Serbia had 517 registered brokers with a license. The government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic's efforts have also been recognised by citizens, bearing witness to the results of local elections in Serbia, as well as the European Commission, which has positively assessed the trend of resolving old cases and improving peaceful dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35084	Thank you. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35085	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, and the amendment I have submitted to Article 3 follows the previous amendments and refers to the empowerment of human resources and human resources and, of course, the personnel of the Serbian Army. The development of the Serbian Army's modernisation conditions certain changes both in both material and human resources, requiring staff to monitor changes and take measures to meet new requirements. The capacity of the personnel service to monitor and adapt the development of the Serbian Army, as well as to take appropriate measures, should be a recognizable feature of human resources management. As a result, I feel it is necessary to continuously improve the personnel service, because employees should not be afraid of change. Once they adopt and perfect the necessary knowledge, they will only facilitate work and extend new opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35086	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35087	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, that the yellow company in different aggregate states has destroyed the security system, the defence system, that is already known to us, but the yellow enterprise in different aggregate states has directly compromised the position of military pensioners. Namely, they miscalculated military pensions at a time when the minister was a Sutanovac. In this way, of course, they did not miscalculate military pensions, they were only that money that was intended for military pensioners spent purposelessly and absolutely for some other purpose, most likely for luxuries purposes. Of course, the Constitutional Court has found that such a decision of miscalculation of pensions is completely unconstitutional and by coming to power, SNS has paid five billion dinars to damaged military pensioners, mainly for court costs. What I want to praise the Ministry of Defence, these are certainly united activities on the migration management plan, these are joint activities with the Ministry of Interior, as regards the security of our border towards Macedonia and Bulgaria from the illegal crossing of migrants. I must point out that the Serbian Army has shown a high degree of professionalism, a high degree of responsibility, a high degree of humanity and a high degree of humanity. Also, I would like to commend the activities taken by our medics at a military hospital within the Morava base in the Central African Republic protecting wounded UN members and citizens in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35088	Thank you very much. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Lakatoš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35089	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers of Associates, Serbian Army officers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The law on military education is proposed to prescribe specific military education objectives stemming from the specific nature of military education, the special status of pupils and students and teaching staff, which also apply the rules on defence and the rules of the military service in the exercise of educational work. The need for continuous improvement is inevitable, so that it is necessary to modernise the school system and introduce new educational profiles that will comply with the highest European standards. Modernising the military and achieving the specific goals of military education requires and harmonising the school system. Military institutions should be one of the supporters of the modern society, while its students apply the acquired knowledge in the interest of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Military education is the best example of implementing lifelong education, and good law on military education is the interest of the whole of society, as well as of our country. For all things said, I have submitted an amendment that I propose to be in Article 3. The bill adds Article 3 which reads: "Achieving the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to the development of the school system. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35090	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the MP general, Dr Vlado Babic. Here you go, buddy Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35091	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 3. The bill adds Article 3 which reads: "Achieving the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of health centres. “ With this amendment, we wanted to further define the purpose of specific objectives and principles of military insurance. Starting on 1 January 2012, from the responsibility of the SOVO Fund, a segment of pension disability insurance of military insurance has been consolidated into the pension disability insurance system of the Republic of Serbia. The SVO Fund is a legal person with the status of a mandatory social security organisation in which military insurance obligations are exercised. The housing of beneficiaries of military pensions can be resolved in two ways. First, by using funds from the housing lending programme and second, by concluding an apartment rental contract indefinitely. The Regulation on the use, conditions, way of using funds to improve the material position of non-accommodating military pension users allows the beneficiary of a military pension to receive a non-omergent loan to resolve housing issues of 20,000 euros in dinar equivalent on the day of transfer of funds under the official course of the National Bank of Serbia. If they identify themselves in this way to resolve housing issues, military question users submit a request to the Social Insurance Fund of military insurance companies with already known evidence. Last year, 2,338 applications were submitted, out of which 1,878 were approved. The 26 dropped out after the request was granted, and 1,846 signed and paid off for credit and contracts. In this way, military insurance can reach the roof over the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35092	Thank you, Dr. Granny. The People's MP, Dr Milovan Krivokapic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35093	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers and representatives of BIA, colleagues and colleagues have been defined through Article 3(1) and (2) respectively, the specific objectives of the proposal for a law on military education to which I have submitted Amendment 3, which adds Article 3, which reads: "The achievement of the specific objectives of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special emphasis on undeveloped municipalities". One of the priorities of our government is to invest and implement reforms in order for the state of Serbia to be a subject of stability and peace in the region of Southeast Europe. This is a continuous and transparent process that we are carrying out based on a established defence policy and the harmonisation of the defence system with challenges, risks and threats to security, the needs of citizens, accepted standards, and within the scope of our country's capabilities. The adoption of the draft law on military education regulates the objectives and principles of military education, the specificity of military education in relation to the education system of the Republic of Serbia. It is evident, therefore, that the interest in a military call is increasing every year and that more and more young people understand the importance of a military call and more and more decide to enroll military schools and a military academy. These are one of the best students, those who have been successful in their previous education and who seek to continue their education and later find work in Serbia's Army. Of course, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has done much to improve the material status of military personnel, according to Minister Alexander Vulin, through increased personal incomes and through building housing and resolving housing issues, which is vital to family formation and expansion. Finally, in addition to the specific objectives defined in Articles 1 and 2, I believe that it should be further defined that the achievement of the specific objectives of military education has a direct impact on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and with a specific reference to undeveloped municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35094	Thank you, Dr. Krivokopic. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35095	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected officers, BIA gentlemen, fellow MPs, draft Law on Military Education stems from the specific nature of military education and special status of student cadets, i.e. students and teaching staff in the exercise of educational work, and apply the rules of defence and the rules of military service. That is why I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 relating to the specific objectives of military education to have highly trained personnel who are in the service of the protection of the country and stability leading to progress and new investment. The ministry faced a major challenge, as it is necessary to provide the best health care, which better conditions for members of the military, then new and modern weapons systems, and patriotism and love for the country in Serbia's military never questioned. The defence ministry and the Serbian Army will have just over 67.2 billion dinars in 2018, which is compared to the euro course, which means that armed forces have around 17% more money at their disposal this year. Serbia's military will continue to take care of the housing needs of its members in order to improve the quality of life and work of members of the Serbian Army and we can hope that we will have much more interest in spending their lives in Serbia's military. Also, the new law covers families of military personnel who, on average, changed their place of residence and service five times. The employment of spouses and thus will achieve security. We aim to make the military happy with their work so that they can focus their knowledge and skills on the work and stability of the country, not on the naked existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35096	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of the Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35097	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, fellow MPs, the Serbian Army has endured many tragedies and googogues through history, but what it suffered from 2000 to 2012, is as much more embarrassing as it was because it suffered from people who were supposed to take care of it, not from breaking and destroying it. At the time, the army was constantly poor and failing, but that's why ministers were getting rich, buying exclusive land plots and collections of expensive watches. So former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, with the fact that he was a minister for a little over four years, during which he received a salary of 100,000 dinars, managed to earn an exclusive plot and build a 190m square and 139m-square-square gallery worth more than 120m dinars or a million euros, and when we recalculate that salary, he needed 1,200 ministerial salaries, which means he had to be a minister for 100 years or a whole century to receive a salary, and from it he didn't spend any of the only dinars in order to legally and legally become the owner of this property. Dragan Sutanovac's thrifty will give us a better picture of the words of Amir Beslimi, former DS director, who has publicly declared to his party colleague Dragan Sutanovac that he is arrogant because he carries on his hand a watch worth two-bedroom apartment in downtown Belgrade. Bislimi said, as director of DS, that Dragan Sutanovac has several luxury handwatches, which according to his knowledge are worth tens of thousands of euros, so it is the turn of the citizens to know that Dragan Sutanovac owns the handbooks of prestigious Swiss marks such as Bergia and Golden Cartier, Rod Star, which are worth ten thousand euros, then Shopard Honograf, which is worth 4,500 euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35098	Thank you. The People's Parliament of Sandra Christmas submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35099	Thank you, President. It is of great importance to train and create young people, especially special staff to manage and manage new funds, modern means that appear every day. Also, President Vukic cited in his exposé how important education is and not just military education, but education at all. New means of combat and modern technology require us to have both high education and professional personnel. We have good engineers, but we don't have enough. We have good, excellent and brilliant officers, but we don't have enough. We have great shifts in our army's training and equipment, but after some moves by 2012, we have to start over. It's great that by our own knowledge we've won some technologies and we've managed to start developing some new systems. A system such as the Alas missile modular system, the Morava missile system, the modernization of the Fire system, the hybrid PVO system of futuristic appearance, Pasarad 16, the self-hob of Alexander 155 mm, the Lazar, Miloš, Mali Miloš, as well as the modernisation of the popular Bow and the conversion into a reconnaissance vehicle and into a command vehicle for all three levels of command personnel on a possible battlefield, the installation of new electronic equipment and new power systems, and so there went further to the drone helicopters of Stršljen and to the weapons and firearms for the needs of soldiers on the ground, such as. Automatic BGA 30 grenade launcher. These are all domestic knowledge products and we need to have knowledge and to conquer new technologies, and the means to develop these new technologies will be on the market. There are countries that want to co-finance and finance the development of new systems or participate through the principle of recapitalisation of minority ownership in our businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35100	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35101	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, as far as our Government and President of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic are working to improve and develop Serbia's Army and military education, says the fact that in 2017, after 20 years, the Timoska Brigade composed of reservers had two weeks of training in the area of Zaječar. The training was organised by the Timoska Brigade Development Command of Zaječar, which consisted of three parts, from individual, specialist and collective training. In Zaječar barracks there is training of persons from the reserve composition of logistics specialities and the aim of training is to restore previously acquired knowledge, but also to help in realising the content of logistics domains in emerging situations. In 2017, a group of reserve military elders from Timoski Reon implemented a project of military, professional and informative training of reserve military elders, the generation of artillery, in a mixed artillery brigade in Nis, where they are familiar with new technical and technological solutions in the artillery system, as well as with specificities and basic roles, as well as missions of reserve military elders in civil protection. All of these facts suggest that military education is a permanent and developmental character and that our government behaves accordingly, unlike the predecessors whose sole goal was personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35102	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? He submitted to Article 3 of the amendment Prof. Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35103	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. For the sake of the public and viewers who are monitoring the transmission, I will only remind once again that Article 3 refers to the specific objectives of military education. My amendment refers to the addition to this Article 3 that a specific review is dedicated to the development of the education system. This Law on Military Education has, in fact, members of the 3rd to 83rd members, and later, through all these members is governed by all the specificities of military education. Normatively and in all elements that regulate the specificity of education, both secondary military education and higher education. So, this way, with these specificities being regulated, part of it has been implemented and the harmonisation of the rules of this military education to education regulations in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, in those segments that do not regulate specificities, I have already mentioned through several members there is a finding where, according to the law, what is not regulated by this law or is contrary to this law in all other areas and the rules of primary education, or higher education, apply. Thus, the regulation of specificity and harmonisation with these parent laws of secondary, or higher education has been achieved in the extreme line of what this law wanted to do, the alignment of organisation and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35104	You've wasted your time. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Miroslav Milojevic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Pantovic. Ljiljana Malušić, an MP, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35105	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with ministry associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which I am adding Article 3 to clarify the achievement of the specific objectives of military education, thus ensuring the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on reducing social differences. Namely, the aim is for the University of Defence to implement programmes outside the framework of the study programmes for which it is authorised to work on its own or in collaboration with other higher education institutions. The aim is also to implement the training programme through courses, seminars, workshops, expert and scientific consultations where students are familiar with certain areas of the profession and science of radio expansion and deepening acquired knowledge and successful work in practice. At the university, units and institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, special programmes are being organised to perfect professional members of the Serbian Army and civil servants. It is also very important to say that health specialisation and close specialisation programmes are organised and implemented at the university by health care professionals and health associates at the Ministry of Defence and citizens. Of course, the goal is also to increase business gains, modernise arms and the military. The president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, announced that income will be increased year after year, as has been done. At the end of this year, incomes will also be increased, and a mass of apartments will be built for about 30,000 people. That includes pensioners. It is a serious state and it is a socially responsible policy and this is how social differences are reduced. It should also be said that the Serbian government should be committed and is committed to implementing measures taken to strengthen Serbia's defence industry through raising the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army, hiring in the defence industry and increasing investment, as well as building new defence industry facilities. Serbia is restoring infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35106	Thank you, time. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35107	I thank the esteemed chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, the primary goal of reforming high-level military education is to train academic trained officers and ensure their permanent training in the profession. Since modern society and new technologies require continued improvement of knowledge, education is a life-long process of valuable importance, both for common interests and for individual interests. Responsible for the government's approach to planning our future, it is about reviving the military industry. That is why management in Serbia's defence industry is an important factor and aims to survive this industry on a turbulent world market. The key to its recovery and further development is primarily in co-operation with the state and the launch of co-operation with educational institutions by enabling regular practices for students of those colleges and secondary vocational schools who school for military industry purposes. Of course, the best students should be provided with scholarships and further professional training in order to get as high quality fit as possible for the development of a military-industry complex. The result is more productivity, which allows for a country to be more competitive and thus greater social well-being today and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35108	On Article 3 of the amendment, Ambassador Branimir Rancic submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35109	I thank the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers, respected gentlemen from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 3 on military education achieves the specific goals of military education, such as education and training. My amendment reads - By achieving the specific objectives of military education, Serbia's overall development is ensured with a special reference to improving health conditions. This amendment to Article 3 shall, in some ways, be attached to Amendment 1 which I have submitted to Amendment 2. The basic work of the Faculty of Medicine VMA is educational and scientific and research work. Study programmes have been deployed through integrated academic studies of medicine that last six years, six academic specializations, three modules of doctoral academic studies. The activities of students of cadets, in addition to training and teaching, implies and participates in research projects, seminars and workshops. It is proposed to organise programmes and health training in terms of health specialisation and close medical specialisation, workers and health associates. In particular, I would like to highlight the magazine "Vojno-Sanitski pregled", which is on the so-called "Vojno-Sanitski pregled", which is on the so-called "Vojno-Sanitski pregled" magazine. SCI list with a high-intact factor in which our doctors publish professional and scientific papers, which serves them to advance in the profession and high reputation in world medicine. Every single dollar that is allocated to the military, which is about 600m euros annually, is an investment in military health, which contributes to improving the quality of life of each Serbian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35110	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35111	We can freely say that the defence policy of the Republic of Serbia, defined by the Defence Strategy, is finally being respected and implemented. Why am I saying this? Because part of the basic setting concerning the relying and strengthening of the defence capacities of the Republic of Serbia and international security co-operation in the previous period in a completely wrong period, we can say one-sided way, have been carried out. Now, we can freely say that the balance that is necessary for a military neutrality policy is finally in place, which is based on a defence policy. The previous policy was extremely unilateral. Exceptionally, when it comes to international security co-operation on Western military alliances, the absence of any weapons policy, even more or less, has been discussed here several times in the discussion about the destruction of weapons, and yet at the request of all these military alliances. Now it has been dramatically changed, because a real balance and a real policy of military neutrality has been established. The co-operation began, in addition to the necessary co-operation, and when it comes to training and training with Western-military alliances, and with Eastern military alliances, which led to the launch of an arms policy i.e. Strengthening our security capabilities, as elements of defence policy, and on the other hand, more developed and strengthened the training of our members of the armed forces. So we say that in addition to the unilateral, false policy of military neutrality in the previous period, this policy of military neutrality, the policy of statehood that was only possible when the state was strengthened and when trust was restored, gives concrete results in strengthening our military and strengthening our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35112	Ambassador Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35113	Thank you, Mr President, dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues. In the first portal of this year, we have the largest recorded fatal GDP growth in the last 10 years, and it is not based on sales and borrowing, but on new investments, knowledge, and there has certainly been a major role of the dedicated industry and is participating in a major mission, let me say, in the service of its people. What is very important is that from this growth, this defined money is invested where it will create new growth and those 2.5m euros in FAP's account for new technologies to modernise both FAP's plants and equipment is from a new growth, and worthy of the FAP in Serbia's dedicated industry will restore it to the Serbian economy and create growth elsewhere. The highway that goes from Preljina to Požega, and it is intended in some way through the creation of growth played a great role. So we'll be training weapons technicians, and we've barely been able to save the dedicated industry from disarmament technicians. We'll also be training rocket techs, and we've barely been able to save them from rocket techs. This and the previous government barely saved the dedicated industry from technicians for the purposeless spending of money on Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35114	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35115	Thank you, President. Dear Presidents, ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on Military Education, which today strengthens and strengthens Serbia. It allows us to run a peace policy and maintain the status of a military neutral state. It wasn't our position once. From 2000 to 2012 the percentage that goes to the military from the budget is constantly reduced. The 100th anniversary of our air force was welcomed by four fighter planes over 25 years old, one MiG-29, the rest of them all half a decade old. The modernisation of the Eagle aircraft was not launched, which the Romanians withdrew even in 1998 from use. No single armored vehicle has entered the movement army since the SFRY, no army officer has worn standard boots. Unfortunately, this lesson from 1999 was only learned in 2012, with Alexander Vukic coming. Today, the situation is different. Serbia's Army budget has never been bigger. By the end of next year, the Army will own 15 MiG-29 planes and an estimated number of helicopters. Every soldier gets two sets of uniforms and new boots. He invests significantly in education. All this shows that Aleksandar Vucic was a great minister, but we sincerely hope that Alexander Vulin will be even better and will succeed in implementing the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia that has been working for the last six years because, they say, the work always ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35116	The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Verica Radeta and Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35117	Article 4 speaks about the specific principles of military education and it is really important to pay particular attention to military education and these special principles. It is not just enough to be formally envisaged in this bill, soon and legally, but really not to be subjected to some kind of, say, propaganda by NGOs, from various pro-government elements that appear more openly, unfortunately, in Serbia and you have to give the opportunity to our generals who have both shown themselves in the last country wars and in the bombing in Kosovo and Metohija, to allow them to pass on their experience, first of all, to these young soldiers. Don't let some inscriptions in some pro-Western newspapers make you think that Generals, I don't know, Lazarevic, Dikovic, Delic, etc. remove from this training of our young soldiers. You must first of all take care of the interests of the Serbian state, the interests of all the people who live in Serbia and cannot fall under any political influence. Of course, you have to focus as much on creating as possible better conditions for our army. I have to draw your attention that there are a lot of problems when it comes to various litigation, housing, that the defence is quite unsupervised and uninterested in its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35118	National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 4th amendment. He's not here. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 4th amendment. He's not here. National MP Bosko Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. He's not here. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Kostic. He's not here. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4. The bill proposes to prescribe specific principles of military education and to bring them in line with the principles of education of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment that I have submitted to this article shall read in Article 4(1). The proposal for a law of the word "special" shall be deleted. You did not accept this amendment with an explanation, it is said – the government does not accept this amendment for the reason it is a text that has passed a legal-professional editorial by experts. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think this explanation of not accepting this amendment is in order? Absolutely not. It can be concluded from this argument that the other amendments have not passed a legal-professional editorial by professional people. It's about this part of the argument. I would take the opportunity to ask the minister a few questions, which is – what is the difference between those soldiers of the officers and the officers who participated in the war and those who did not? War participants, unfortunately, do not have any satisfaction of rewards or respect in any sense of the word. If these soldiers, officers and officers, don't have benefits, how will future generations think about participating in some war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35120	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35121	Mr. Minister, here we are successfully sailing through the Education Law where we are talking about importance, goals, and now Article 4 is related to the principles of this law. You seem to have run out of motive and will to get a little more active in these amendments and it seems to me that you are successfully defending yourself with silence. To the previous article, our amendment was related to the territorial integrity, the sovereignty of our state, you answered nothing, and now we have submitted an amendment to Article 4(1), where we have proposed that part of the sentence, or the 1st sentence be deleted. Military education is based on specific principles stemming from the nature of military service and the organisation of the work of military institutions, with respect for human rights and civil liberties. We believe that there should be a point instead of a comma, and the words that follow, which is "including the ban on all kinds of discrimination", should be deleted. In fact, discrimination is universal, and in the state of Serbia there is constitutional law, or constitutional category, because Article 21. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says discrimination of all kinds is prohibited. In case it is broken, there are laws that form an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia which thus punish those who would do so. All we have to do is follow all the laws consistently, and then there wouldn't be any problem. In the broadest sense, discrimination means separation, separation, making some differences, which shouldn't be in any way. The most common discrimination is carried out when it comes to women, racial discrimination, and economic discrimination, I don't think that's the case. There is no need at all to strengthen or deepen, underline, or whatever kind of discrimination you want to prohibit, because it shouldn't be. We'd better pay attention to some other things that are still progressing in organising military and military life... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35122	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted to the nations by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35123	Mr. Minister, since the establishment of a military university has been circled, what the SRS wants to draw attention to, and this has just been said by a colleague of Radeta, and there are officers from the General Staff, from the Ministry, it is certainly necessary to take care of the elite military-school staff. What are we talking about? Because some statistics show, and there are gentlemen officers who know it very well, because they went through it themselves, that almost one third of their lives each officer spends in learning, right? Now, what's important, especially because of future generations, especially because from cadets who started their education at the Military Academy 10 years ago, we now have a lot of, almost 9% and women lieutenants, we have and talk about a less represented sex, a lot of young generations who specialize in certain professional areas within the Army. What we want to draw attention to through the submission of this amendment is that it is necessary to strictly take into account and to define the scientific and research area of specific legal frameworks, related to all future military moves. Because it is important to meet some new challenges, we are facing what will be in the future, so I insist, here I am, talking about it the second time today, said Radeta colleague, other fellow Serbian radicals. Because this scientific and technological development for the country of Serbia that is surrounded by NATO villain countries, and because of all the challenges related to KIM, it is necessary for these future generations to put ourselves under the umbrella of Russia and the ODKB to join.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35124	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by the peoples and by MP Nemanja Sarovic. He's not here. ( ) The 4th Amendment was submitted by the nations not by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. He's not here. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, did the nations and MP Nikola Savic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we heard from the military minister that Serbia still does not have a defined strategy of national defence, from which military doctrine would arise. If that's the case, then I really don't know what's waiting for it, because this furniture has been ruling Serbia for six years, and I think it's a period enough to do something like this. Of course, I can't just blame Minister Vulin for this, he's, if I'm not mistaken, the fourth minister in line in this government's furniture, and this strategy is based on a wider national consensus, so it's not just up to one man. So, then, all the praises we've heard at the minister's expense, and it's evident, at the expense of this ministry, that there's been a shift compared to the time it was before. So all the praises for this reason fall into the water. The world as we know it is changing rapidly, and let's just say, until yesterday, NATO was an uncut military organization, a military force, and we can see, first of all, in the case of Syria, that this alliance is not so uncut, that it is vulnerable, and tomorrow there may be another situation, not perhaps, but it will certainly be, and a different situation where NATO will be and some second-rate military force. That's why I think a strategy like this should be adopted as soon as possible. All of these things to keep in mind, because if we don't have this in mind, the events will be threatening us, we need to re-conject in time so that we don't cough for events, and the interests of the state are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35126	The 4th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Let me just check that Bozidar Delic. Come in, you're authorized, you've got time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35127	Gentlemen, the laws are not written today until tomorrow. This previous one lasted 15 years, so if we do this one right and it should last at least ten years, that's why we don't understand why you didn't accept an absolutely good and well-intentioned amendment of the SRS. We have practically added only a few words in point 5, which is that teachers and associates in addition to professional members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence are also added those words – and civil higher education institutions. We know that the military can fill teachers, co-workers, at least today in the highest number, but it means, today, when military education is part of Serbia's school system to be so exclusive, I think it's unacceptable. At the time I was educated, the military school system was completely separate and to me, for example, the philosophy taught by the famous Andrija Stojkovic. So it takes the Military Academy, VMA, to mean that there is a possibility for some areas, that if not today for five years, in ten years, a known name from civilization is being hired, because, in the end, recognition and institutions are gaining quality. And write to me here, he says – they are chosen exclusively from the ranks of professional members of the Army and employees of the Ministry of Defence. Gentlemen, nothing that is exclusively not good. We offer you means that the law improves, the possibility that one day if necessary, you can hire someone from Belgrade University, someone famous name you hire on the first, second, or third level of higher education, and you rejected it. We were well-intentioned. Those who have given such an answer are not well-intentioned, because they simply did not understand what the message of this amendment is and that it greatly improves this position 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35128	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Bozidar Delic. Do you want a word? (Božidar Delic: I was just talking.) ) The 4th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on military education. With this amendment, I suggest that point 6 be deleted from the second position of the fourth member of the bill. This point, which I propose to delete, is – Ensuring the quality and efficiency of military education in line with the requirements of professionalisation of the Serbian Army and the Serbian Army's defence regulations. We of the SRS support the process of professionalization of the Army but we believe that a point as well as other proposed points in this position is more theoretical than precise legal provision. We have submitted our amendments to this law in our best interest to improve the proposed legislative solution, although we do not fully agree with your strategy and perspective for the further development of the Serbian Army, especially with the strategic definition which in your case seeks the EU and the inevitable NATO Pact, while we are fully defined for Russia and for the accession of the ODKB. Given that the Serbian Army is one of the most trusted institutions in Serbia, it is necessary that all laws governing the area of military action, especially military education, be the best possible. I therefore believe that you should have considered more seriously the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and accepted a number of proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35130	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35131	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of the Republic of Serbia, who today have been neat and disciplined, as well as all the time of the debate, in full composition, unlike some others at our earlier sessions, who have been much more relaxed and who have been able to telephone, write text messages and even make-up to fix. My amendment refers to Article 4 paragraph 2 of this Act – Ensuring the quality and efficiency of military education, in line with the requirements of professionalisation of the Serbian Army and defence regulations, we add – sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Here we are talking for three days about just a few members of this one law, the Law on Military Education, and we will not have the opportunity to speak, say, and other important laws in this area, such as the Bill on Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, and then the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, and not to list - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Military, Working and Material Obligations or the Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act, and we will vote, that is, you will vote all of these laws without any practical discussion. Question...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35132	Next time. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35133	Thank you, President. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the easiest thing to do is to use big words, drill into the chest and talk about patriotism, and it's the best thing to do when you have no responsibility for the spoken word, so much better, because then it's cheap. Someone might like it when you talk like that, but the state doesn't use it anyway. The state benefits what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing today, what Alexander Vucic does, as president of Serbia, what you do as defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to acquire new moves, that is, modernising the military, which is one, I would say, an excellent functioning of today's dedicated industry in the Republic of Serbia, an increase in arms exports from the Republic of Serbia, greater revenues in the country's budget, more jobs that we have. That's what the Republic of Serbia is using today, and that's the politics of life. It's to celebrate life, celebrate jobs, celebrate factories, celebrate new uniforms in the Serbian Army, celebrate new weapons. That's what guarantees our country's stability and guarantees our children's future. We all want to have peace in the Republic of Serbia, that we want to have peace in this region that has been covered too long and too often with war casualties. It's time to celebrate peace and celebrate life. In that sense, the SNS and I, as its MP, were absolutely determined and supported by these legislative proposals, continue to be the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35134	National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Popovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35135	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing Article 4(3) I have proposed, further defines the purpose of the specific principles of military education. In fact, the purpose of each education is not only the progress of individuals, not just institutions, but the progress of the country itself in which individuals are educated and educated. Health institutions, by investing in professional training and by investing in equipment and new appliances, as well as by introducing new treatment methods, contribute to the country's development process. The VMA has acquired the state-of-the-art 60 million dinar scanner and with this machine, as well as with three existing scanners, it will be able to examine 60 patients daily, on average by 50% to speed up the provision of health services and reduce the waiting time for checks and procedures. The latest type of magnetic resonance and special X-rays are also planned. In this institution of previous years, a number of surgical methods were introduced for the first time in our country, such as blood vessels, liver and heart transfer, aortic valve implantation without surgery, then special neurosurgical methods and other operations. Twenty kidney transplants and two liver transplants were made last year, and this institution contributed to Serbia's progress in this area, together with other results of our health care in Europe. The government of the Republic of Serbia has long recognised the fact that only by investing in the education and training of young people, as well as by investing in infrastructure, we are certainly moving towards an advanced and modern state and, therefore, all ministries are making a full contribution to the health development process, and thus to the overall development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35136	The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Tian the Davidite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35137	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, this is the fourth amendment I am submitting to the Bill on Military Education, which concerns the development of regional co-operation and in order to improve the quality of this law. Article 4 The law on military education defines specific principles stemming from the nature of military service, its organisation and the work of military institutions. Regional co-operation is one of our country's top foreign policy priorities and in this sense Serbia is seeking to support any initiative aimed at promoting dialogue, multilateral economic co-operation and strengthening regional good neighbourly relations. I call on my colleagues to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35138	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35139	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In my final address about this law, I would like to read something first – a 1919 record, “Share at the Jasenovo station, ” page 277. "Der Schwartz George", this is Black George or Karadjorje, "playing on the map of the international roulette and winning the main shot. Begoradic gentlemen go to the map, who could believe that? Gray, Lloyd George, Poenacro, Clemanso, Wilson. It's all Belgrade's aces. And who beat us? These lousy Belgrade gypsies, who chew onion all day long and spit on absanes, this illiterate bogeyman for gallows. That bastard Europe trusts and gives her some kind of banner. The Vienna is starving, Austria is gone, the mob is ruling the world. The war was won by the Balkan gypsies, what a disgrace! “ From Zagreb, 1919. Year, Miroslav Krleža. I don't know how many theaters play plays today. I don't want to judge his artistic range. I know that unfortunately, my grain theater in the year Nusic played "Leda", but please, officers and gentlemen of security, don't let our cadets know history in the future and not be miseducated, as we were, unfortunately, as a generation. The past he escapes from will become a future he cannot escape from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35140	To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35141	The Honorable President, the role of military school teachers and the academy is a crucial factor in the success of our pedestals and academics. A military school teacher must love his job, for love of his calling is a key factor in the success of our pedestals and academics. This was best seen by the largest Swiss pedagogue and one of the world’s largest pedagogues, who said: “The enthusiasm that I will be able to move my hands has given me so much strength that I can climb to the highest Alps, just so I can begin, ” thinks raising my students. Also, it was seen by the great Russian pedagogogogog and one of the world’s greatest educators Belinski, who burned out of love for his teacher’s interest, who said: “If I were born 10 times again, I would be a teacher 10 times again, because there is no better or more noble calling than it is educational. ” For the pitomatists know well whether the tutor who raises them and educates them speaks what he has learned, whether he speaks what he knows, or says what he is. “ The teacher does not teach what he has learned, ” he said. The teacher doesn't teach what he knows. The teacher teaches what he is." It's a finished quote. Can you imagine, gentlemen of the People's MPs, that former president of the state Boris Tadic, called Lipicaner, who said in 2006, I quote, "What's the army doing?" that he can teach at the Military Academy? I can't. Gentlemen of the former regime, can you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35142	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35143	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that my colleague Atlagic slightly neglected Vuk Jeremic, a descendant of the wolf, who inherited an oil source in the Texas village of Ježevica near Cačka and who bought apartments of a million euros, who actively participated in the retirement of 300 wartime officers, publicly boasted in the United States, in front of NATO generals, and advocated the civilian army in which he served himself and commanded the military as a civilian soldier in the service of Boris Tadic. There he served the army, there he commanded, there he worked all the work, so I do not allow Mr. Atlagic to neglect the commanding role of Vuk Jeremic, so-called. It's a descendant wolf. What I stand for, that we, unlike them, need to make money, to create an economy that will produce money. They didn't know that, they just knew how money was spent, not how it was made. That money came mainly from debt. Except for the rainbow, they produced more imaginations and illusions. We've certainly broken up with such a practice, but we need to pay attention not to let that happen again. I was already saying that cattle can make far greater agricultural production, and I think that we can also make progress for vegetable and fruit production and create the largest gross domestic product from agriculture and thus equip our army. The state does not defend itself with its own army, so that it may defend itself, and that the adversary may be overcome, and I will say: turn away, without the use of force. Our army must be modernly armed and thus deter any possible opponent from intending to do anything in this area. I firmly believe that we will do this and that our people will recognize the chance and see the difference between us and them and that we will achieve those goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35144	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? (No) Stanija Compirovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Zvonimir Djokic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35145	Thank you. Mr. Minister, respected officers, honourable MPs, once again at the beginning of my presentation on this amendment, I will quote the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who once said this - the Serbian Army must always be ready, and in Serbian politics it is to safeguard peace and stability and to prevent the army from ever being used. But the army must be prepared at any moment to respond to every challenge and turn away any aggressor from the thought of jeopardizing our country. It's clear to all of us that without a strong army, there is no strong state. But without a strong state and a wise policy, there can be no strong armies. The Serbian government and the complete state summit have seen some problems that plague Serbia's army and military education along with it long ago. Among other things, this has been made public, it is a low standard of professional members of the Serbian Army, unresolved housing issues of the Serbian Army, etc. We have recently heard from Minister Vulin that it is certainly working to raise that standard, so he set an example that is certainly commendable. Once the average soldier had a salary of 33.308 dinars, and now he has 38,805 dinars. Once a deputy had 43,686 dinars on average, he now has 51,975 dinars. The officer had 63,428 dinars, now has 73,712 dinars. But it's certainly encouraging and what we heard the other day from President Vukic, who says – Serbia has had enough money in the budget for three years in a row. After an increase in wages expected by the end of this year, which was announced by the president... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35146	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35147	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, and this fourth amendment is heading towards connecting the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with military education, so I suggested that in Article 4. The bill adds Article 3 which reads: "Achieving the specific principles of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to social equality." The bill defines the regulation of specific principles of military education and their harmonisation with the general principles of education prescribed by the law governing the basics of education and education in the Republic of Serbia. Military education is of particular importance to the defence of the Republic of Serbia, and good military education is a pillar of a strong army. By investing in military education, we invest in the military and create stronger Serbia. This amendment of mine is going that way. I will use this little time that I have left, since I will no longer report to the amendments, to praise the set of laws that improve the status of the military and which improve the conditions of life for the security structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35148	Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Stanislav Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35149	Thank you, dear President of the Assembly. In 2006, they were able to shut down the grain garrison and the army left the garrison in Zrenjanin, since it was in a very bad state. You could only find a few soldiers who were not at all a kind of military formation, but the sole security of these facilities. Fortunately, in 2014, the state and military summit decided to return the Army to the Zrenjanin garrison, which today represents a command for the development of the Banatian brigade. We Zrenjaninci are particularly proud of the fact that in 2016 a parade was held in Zrenjanin called Begej 2016, which certainly marked the return of the Army to the city. This is particularly important for us and what is related to this, and I want to praise it, is a very good example of the "Open Days" event that connects citizens certainly with members of the Army, especially those of the younger population, young people and girls who could try it that way, compete and hire in Serbia as professional soldiers. We really need to commend all that is to be welcomed and set a good example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35150	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35151	I thank the president. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will take the opportunity to highlight the investment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Technical Remont Institute in Cačka, where infrastructure works are under way. So far, the government has invested more than 620 million dinars in the recovery of this Institute. It's a very important project because our Army has the ability to remount and improve combat systems on its own, which opens up the possibility of getting new systems and further development. The government's investment concerns improving working conditions, but also new employment, especially engineers and workers in production. It also refers to greater efficiency, greater possibilities to remount a particular technique with a higher level of employment. In this way, the facilities of this office are increasing, with the intention of opening up to the market, as well as providing daily combat stops for the Serbian Army. Investment investment in this institution creates favourable working conditions and affects the productivity and functional capacity of the institution itself. Conditions have been created for the production of telecommunications systems and for increasing the number of remounted complex combat systems. So by investing in defence of investment in Serbia, the government is investing in its security, independence and protection of integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35152	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35153	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected officers, Serbia's defence industry is an important business branch. We've heard it so many times these days and it really is because, thanks to the export of weapons, we have significant inflows into the Republic of Serbia's budget. The link between the economy and the military illustrates various examples that I have already been instructed in previous exhibitions, and another such example is the FAP Priboj. In 2018, the Serbian Army continued intensively with the process of modernising everything in terms of combat, but also non-combat techniques. FAP is of great interest to the Army of Serbia, of great importance to our entire country, to this area, to the military, and for this year at least 266 million dinars are foreseen to buy FAP products. This does not only strengthen the link between the dedicated industry and the economic growth process and create financial conditions for FAP to generate production and technology plants more frequently for the production and delivery of this type and in the future, both for trucks of this intended character and for other field vehicles from the FAP production programme. Thanks to large procurements conducted by the defence ministry, the volume of work in domestic companies is increasing, so additional jobs are being opened. It's a multiple benefit, so thank you for your attention, and we will certainly support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35154	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. National MP Zoran Dragisic submitted to the 4th amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35155	Thank you. Very briefly, the chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is my last amendment, amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. It is similar in its structure to the present amendment, as it stresses the need for modernisation in the context of overall development. Many times we have already been told what results we have achieved when it comes to domestic military industry development projects. We mentioned all those achievements, we also mentioned "Alas" and "Morava" and "Miloša" and "Lazara" and "Fire" and "Nora" and all other achievements. So to simplify the end, they were destroying, melting, selling military equipment and weapons, and we were restoring, producing, promoting and developing. That's the difference between us and them. For the very end, I would like to say that in the day of voting, I will vote for my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35156	National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35157	Thank you, Your Honor. My last amendment and everything related to our country's economic growth. Since we have not heard a word from the opposition MPs about our country's economic growth and development, I am proud to point out that every citizen and citizen of our country hear what the World Bank has said and what positive opinions we have received from both the World Bank and the Fiscal Council and the European Commission on our country's economic growth. I will also point out again how much GDP growth is in the first quarter of 2018. Respected citizens and citizens, 4.5%. From today to May 18th, the IMF mission is in Serbia, Belgrade. It will therefore be a non-financial arrangement, which will only confirm and ensure the preservation of the achieved macroeconomic and financial stability, and all in order to improve the development and economic growth of our country. In the end, I'd like to use the few seconds that I have left to commend, the distinguished ministers with the associates, your bill, which, of course, we'll be voting and supporting in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35158	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35159	Honored President Gojkovic, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, on Article 4. I propose item 3 of the bill. – the achievement of the specific principle of military education. Military education regulated by this law is based on specific principles, with respect for human rights and civil freedoms, including any prohibition of all forms of discrimination. In addition to the unique integrated planning, development and improvement of military education and scientific and professional work, it is important to defend Serbia's military. Also, one of the principles is the handling of military-school institutions, as well as the quality and efficiency of military education in line with Serbia's military professionalisation requirements. These laws regulate the rights and obligations, as well as the responsibility of students of cadets, i.e. students who are educated for admission to professional military service. Thanks to the efforts of Alexander Vukic, who comes after the departure of the Minister of Pastures, our Serbian military institutions are training where, regardless of the production of complex combat systems, cosmic and nuclear research, which are the best experts in their field, and especially by working on projects of the dedicated industry, we are pleased and moving forward. Thank you very much and we will accept the SNS of these laws that lead us to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35160	National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35161	Thank you. Here's another illogical amendment to this wonderful bill, and that's an amendment to article 4, which regulates the specific principles of military education. I'll read it for the first time today as my amendment reads. In Article 4. The bill is added to Article 3 which reads – the implementation of the specific principles of military education provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on improving sustainable development. Isn't that logical? It is on these principles that we wish for, and I see these Governments and the Ministry, as well as the armies, that we restore the reputation that we had regarding our military experts, as well as our military industries, above all many remonting institutions. I mention "Mom Stanojlovic" and many others, not to mention factories in the area of the Kings that were involved in the production and production of purpose. Not to mention everything we've created, and what we've been innovating over the past few years, it means, in the last few years, six years, or since the SNS and its coalition partners took over and launched all those capacities that someone purposely destroyed. I'll remember some wonderful times when we were making my hometown of the King's Cup for Tanks 84, as I recall, that's what they were called. That was wonderful. We exported to Iraq, we exported to Iran, to the whole world. I hope that we will repeat this and that the military industry will be what it was and that Serbia will be a big and strong corrective factor in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35162	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35163	Thank you, President. Dear Minister Vulina, distinguished co-workers of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army and the BIA, we from the SNS will support a set of military laws in the voting day and, of course, I will vote for my amendments. I want to say once again that I am convinced that the proposal for a law on military education will solve problems related to status, organisation and development of military school institutions. I would like to point out once again that the reform processes together as a team are carried out by the President of the State, Mr. Vukic, the Government and the Ministry of Defence, contribute to an even better protection of the human rights of the members of the defence system itself, so that this law, as well as the Law on the Serbian Army, further prohibits discrimination against members of the Serbian Army on the basis of racial, religious, national, gender or any other personal property. I would also like to say that the members of the defence system have been made available mechanisms that can protect their rights and point to discrimination such as the defence inspectorate, the internal control institutions, and a new Institute of Trusts to advise, possess and take measures to resolve disputes that may be classified in the field of discrimination of gender equality if they are to be found at all. And, finally, to me, one of the most significant achievements, the reform process is certainly the admission of women to school at the Military Academy since 2014 and at the Military High School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35164	The 4th amendment was submitted by National MP Aleksandra Tomic. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35165	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, to you from the government and to all of us SNS MPs, who we support the Serbian government, are very often respected that we are telling the truth about the fact that individual political parties represented in parliament are openly pushing for NATO accession. I will now read to you only one part of what the NIN Lieutenant General said to the pension of Petar Radojčić, who is stated to be a member of the main DS board, you probably know who it is. In an interview with NIN on 15 June 2017, this general said only the declared military neutrality of 2007 is an unfounded and internationally unrecognizable form with unclear content. Montenegro's recent NATO membership is certain and certain that Macedonia will also join the collective security system is another reason for reviewing Serbia's commitment. NATO's acceptance of standards and co-operation or membership in the alliance requires significant resources, while such neutrality, referring to the official Serbian government's policy, costs much more and does not put security into achieving the goals it was adopted for. Serbia's eventual membership in NATO reduces the chance of conventionally jeopardising its territory, but risks greater exposure and transnational threats to improving relations with Russia. From what is said, it is very clear that DS and one circle of retired military personnel... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... General, I end up, openly pushing for Serbia's introduction into the NATO Pact, I hope that Serbia's policy will remain a policy of military neutrality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35166	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. Do you want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by National MP Milena Turk. Do you want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35167	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Representatives of the BIA, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The law on military education where Section 3 is added, which I wanted further define the purpose of this law. Otherwise, on this occasion, I would like to commend the Ministry of Defence and that an increasing number of women are involved in peacekeeping missions and in general in the system of people's defence, which is for every praise, because in this way respects the right to equality and gender equality, which we all advocate. What I would like to add to this occasion is that some previous period from 2002 to 2015 was significantly lower and was only about 7%, and that in the last few years, this number has really been increasing. Not only as the number of women on peacekeeping missions, but in general the number of female members entering the Military Academy. I really think it's commendable, and that's how we're going to work to make the representation of the gentler sex right. On this occasion, I would like to point out that we from the SNS will support these good laws, because they are in favour of our citizens, and that is our primary objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35168	Blaž Knezevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35169	I thank the chairman. Military education achieves specific objectives stemming from the nature of the military service and for the purpose of carrying out tasks under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. Laws can be passed and can be corrected through amendments and additions to laws, but what members of the Republic of Serbia's military, BIA and the MUP do to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity and security of our country can only people of patriots, dedicated to their jobs, people who love their country. All the beatings that come from the cynical and insidious, evil people who express an unprecedented hatred for their country, not afraid to humiliate it and mud at every step, speaks enough of the weight of the task that our security structures have. What is important is that these people in the people have long been recognized and the people have already shown them where they belong, and as far as the armies of the Republic of Serbia and the BIA are concerned, because they are people who are honest patriots, who love their country and their people above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35170	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Borko Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35171	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this member of the bill needs to be explained more closely that the special principles of military education are in line with the general principles of education, the prescribed law governing the basics of education in the Republic of Serbia, while respecting the organisation, management and operation of the VMA Medical Faculty at the University of Defence, High Schools, secondary vocational schools and so on. mixed schools. It is generally known that working in civil health institutions usually has a certain hierarchy and respect for the principle of co-ordination with respect to the rules of service and, of course, the Law on Labour and Human Rights. Values such as the development and respect of racial, national, cultural, language, religious, gender, gender and adult equality, tolerance and respect for diversity with the system of commanding and handling in the Serbian Army and rules on defence and military service should be harmonised. The youngest officer in the world during World War I was Momcilo Gavrić, born in 1906 at Loznica. When he was eight years old, he was left alone because the Austro-Hungarian army killed his entire family, and the house burned down. He was a member of the Thessaloniki Front as a subordinate to the Sixth Artillery regiment of the Drina Division. At the age of nine, Momcilo Gavric received the rank of corporal. He was the bearer of the Albanian monument, the monuments of World War I and the Order of Merit for the People. In gratitude, the Greeks set up a gold plate on Corfu. It truly deserves all praise from the young Serbian knight, as some have called him, the youngest patriot of the Serb army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35172	The 4th amendment was submitted by Ivan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35173	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the proposed amendment points to the importance of traffic integration. Traffic, as an element of the system, deserves special consideration by looking at all levels of education, and respecting the importance of transferring information, transporting goods and transporting people, is recognised as necessary in detail in this area and in the Serbian Army system. Responsible management, implementing policy in accordance with the SNS programme and leading to problems being solved in an efficient and economic way, positive assessments shall be recorded for the outcome of such work. An effective approach to solving many situations is essential for the implementation of projects for which good traffic infrastructure is needed. And when, in all of this, the Serbian Army's defence system and the security of our country play a major role, it is absolutely an important focus on all levels of education and also on the military education system. In order to protect national security, and in order for the Serbian Army to strengthen its capacities, such a law on the agenda in the field of military education is necessary and takes the first step in creating these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35174	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. The 4th amendment was submitted by Jelena Mijatovic. Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 4th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here we are as we approach the end of the debate in detail about your law, that these DOS gentlemen have stayed for a few years in power, here's how many soldiers and military techniques we would have. As much as you can see their MPs here in the benches. Now, so many of them, even missing these, call the patriots who push the foreign embassies into the National Assembly, and their relationship with the National Assembly as MPs, show a relationship to the citizens who chose them and who chose us all, to the state, to the state institutions, to the citizens of Serbia, so perhaps they don't need their own country's freedom, because they don't consider their own country, they've given up everything. If it could have been in that destruction of property that some dinar was making, great, if it could have been a commission, if something could have been ruined, but one of them would have been even better, it was their policy. And if the military reforms hadn't started in 2012, Serbia wouldn't be in such a much better political and economic situation today than it was back then. Of course, the general reform of the Republic of Serbia's Army and the declaration of its neutrality, and the insistence on its neutrality, and the reform of the Army merits the first Minister Alexander Vukic when he was in 2012, all the other ministers until the day of today, and the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35176	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MEP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35177	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 4. The proposal for a law on military education is further defined by the purpose of specific principles of military education, with a view to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to improving judicial institutions. The 2004 Law on the takeover of jurisdiction of military courts, military prosecutors and the military defences of these authorities has been taken over by courts of general jurisdiction in accordance with the jurisdiction of a specific law governing the actual jurisdiction of courts and of this law. The defence ministry's secretariat, as a special interior unit of the defence ministry, has been subject to a senior military disciplinary court and a senior military prosecutor. The High Court of Military Discipline decides on complaints brought against decisions by first-degree military disciplinary courts, deciding on the jurisdiction of first-degreed courts in cases where co-executors of disciplinary offences, or other accomplices in crimes in service in military units, i.e. military institutions for which different military disciplinary courts are responsible in relation to the trial. The senior military disciplinary prosecutor handles matters relating to the representation of the indictment before the Higher Disciplinary Court. As an organized armed force, the Serbian Army defends the country against armed endangerment outside, performs other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. The successful implementation of these missions and tasks imposes an obligation on the military organisation to ensure the smooth functioning of units and institutions, as well as the performance of dedicated tasks. This can only be ensured if members of the military are in service of compliance with the Constitution, the law, the sublegal rules and the rules of the profession, or when they are responsible. In the end, I would just take the opportunity to commend all the bill proposals that came from the Ministry of Defense, and say that the SNS would support them in the day of voting with pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35178	The 4th amendment includes Vladimir Petkovic. The 4th Amendment is on the afternoon of Nenad Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35179	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers with Associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, military education is based on special principles stemming from the nature of the military service and the organisation and work of military institutions, with respect for human rights and civil freedoms, including the ban on all kinds of discrimination. The draft law, Article 4, provides for six specific principles of military education, namely: military-school management, uniformly integrated planning, organisation and business, special rights and obligations of students, i.e. students, special status of military-school institutions in the education system, quality assurance and efficiency of military education. Article 4 The bill proposes the regulation of specific principles of military education and their harmonisation with the general principles of education prescribed by the law governing the basics of education in the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solution comes from the nature of military education and the need to work on defence and security affairs. Members of the People's Parliament, I invite you to support the draft law on military education in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35180	The 4th Amendment was submitted by Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, quite right are all the MPs who, during today's debate, have pointed out that peace and stability are the necessary conditions for every progress of a society, that without peace and without stability in society, it is impossible to talk about any development that is exactly the intensity and this amendment. Of course, there is an army role in a country of crucial importance. When there is no strong army, or when it is systematically working to bring down its role, it is impossible to lead an authentic policy, then it is impossible to protect the interests of that society entrusted to aging. When it comes to the country, mentioned by counterpart Arsic, it is also pictured in this treatment and attitude towards the military, but also in the conduct of any sovereign policy and custody on the protection of the interests of the state and society. You, Mr. Minister, have asked one question today - what has some people like Dragan Sutanovac ever qualified to be in a position to look after a system like an army, what has qualified them to be in a position to even look after a country? Apparently, the lack of any desire to run an authentic policy, the obvious tendency to weaken the ability of the military to protect the interests of the state and society. But it needs to be completely open and clear, these are things that these people didn't even hide. Sam Dragan Sutanovac said, publicly, that his DS policy did not form at all DS during that period, but that policy, I quote, is on the outside. In addition, Dragoljub Micunovic said that they had the opportunity to find themselves in all these many functions and deserved what he said -- I quote him -- gave foreign experts a free hand to do everything they wanted in this country. That speaks enough of why everything that was happening and why the devastation, which unfortunately, happened both our army and our country, was so deep, but it's so much clearer why it's so good that today we're completely in the other direction... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And that's how I end up, Madam President, why we'll never compare ourselves to the evil days of DOS palanca by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35182	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35183	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment is added item 3 which further defines the purpose of the special principles of military education, and refers to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rights of displaced persons. The Commission for Refugees and Migration of the Republic of Serbia plays a particularly prominent role in addressing the accumulated problems of this endangered category of population as a special organisation in the state administration system established by the Refugees Act. The primary task of the Commissioner is to carry out professional and other tasks relating to the care, return and integration of refugees and internally displaced persons. The Commissioner for Refugees and Migration shall continue to work in co-operation with the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration within the framework of local self-government. In the exercise of power from its work, the Commissioner applies different laws and regulations, including the National Strategy for addressing refugee and internally displaced persons. Following the provisions of the National Strategy, the Commissioner acts in two directions, the first concerns the creation of all necessary conditions and assumptions for the return of primarily internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of the creation of security and legal certainty, and with the full involvement of the relevant authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the international community. The second direction is to create conditions for local integration by solving basic life problems and refugees displaced persons and training them for independent and other citizens of economic and social equal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35184	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you very much for your great patience and your tenacity to study these truly extensive laws and make your proposals, to make your amendments. What's most important and what I'd like to get out of this debate is that it feels really in the whole of society, even in this House whenever it's not spoken with hate and whenever certain parties don't allow themselves to eat because they're no longer in power to turn into politics, to speak well of our army. There was a good talk about our army, about the people who make up our army, about how to make our army better, about the important pillar of our society. When you spread all these stories that are mostly personal and which, as you have seen here, as you have, as a rule, refer to Director Gasic, me or President Vukic, there is no serious criticism for these proposals. These are good laws. These are laws that will help members of the army, which will help future members of the army. These are laws that take care of every member of our staff. It is nice to know that in the National Assembly there are so many people who love their own army, who love their country, who are able to be so patient and so persistent and that even when there is no television transmission, they are there and they are talking and they are trying to do their best. I want to thank you once again and to address you as a soldier's dictionary, the exercises end with a signal that is said to be the signal of the sun. So you have a signal from the sun.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-07-0.u35186	I don't know how to say it again, but I thank the MPs for today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 58 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that 92 is present in the hall or that we have a sufficient number of MPs and conditions for further work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The first one was Vojislav Seselj. Here you go. I took ten seconds from you.
