ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39282	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Snezana Paunovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT LAW. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the context of a search in detail on the first item of the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government has been called upon to attend the session of Minister of State Administration Branko Ružić with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here are my colleagues, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39283	You've been Minister Ruzic ever since you were put on that post and promised in public that you would do some dramatic reform of local self-government, and even in some media performance, you said you'd call a tender for lawmaking. I've been waiting for this tender, waiting for me to come forward and write a bill that no one will notice and you'll have nothing. It doesn't make sense. You are not good at these changes and additions to Minister Ruzic's proposal, in fact there are no more serious ones here, when it comes to local self-government, there are no more serious changes that would be in the interest of local self-government citizens. On the contrary, you are rounding up the party authorities here and what is most frightening, you are introducing local self-government into Eurointegration in such a way that local self-government will run foreign policy, it is precisely written in one member and that is a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we were unable to discuss this in more detail in the principle debate, because, within all these proposals, the ruling majority included a proposal for the election of Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the NBS, so we were, first of all, obliged to explain how bad the proposal was and how it must not happen for Jorgenka to be elected governor, because so far this job has been done badly and the whole period has been marked by malversions and therefore we will talk more through the amendments to you about your bill and other proposals. We also expected from you, given that we have laws relating to national minorities here and that this year is the year when elections for national councils will be held, national minorities that through your parliamentary group you will influence your MPs to support our proposal on the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, to remove the embarrassment from that committee more and to remove Meho Omerovic as a proven thief from the Frankfurt airport from that place. You didn't do it either, but we'll talk about the proposal further. We expect with you as well as so far a debate to really talk to the MPs, to answer questions, so that we can exchange arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39284	At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39285	Mr Ruzic, we have submitted an amendment that this law should actually have a different title that would be in the function of its application, if another amendment was accepted by the SRS parliamentary group, all with the desire to do it better with local self-government in each part of Serbia, because if we say that the law should be called the law on the regulation of local self-government, then it is indeed true. You are a short time minister and I believe that you have not been able to see the specific situation with your associates in every city in Serbia. We were able to see in the media that representatives of Serbia's largest party currently having a majority in many cities in Serbia, the SNS, are dealing with the issue of functioning in the way their local officials do. However, there is a city in Serbia where I come from and you know that there is a big problem on all grounds, and that is Kragujevac, where even members of the larger, physically do not meet. So, members of the council will confirm to you, if you go, and if at all, it's like it's a forbidden city, so no one can come, because that's where the Nikolic Dynasty is and does whatever it wants. For two years, if it exists somewhere in Belgrade, here I am looking at the amazing fellow Markovic meeting, or deciding and making decisions on the most vital issues for the city, via e-mail. Radomir Nikolic sends an e-mail about what's on the agenda, so make it clear whether or not you're in favour, of course by automation everyone responds that they are and that's how the city works. If that's normal for us, Mr. Ruzic, then it's also normal for you to have a petty thief like Meho Omerovic who stole perfumes and makeup there at Frankfurt Airport, still sits on the board that's under your portfolio, which is for human and minority rights, and I believe that you will use some of your authority to solve the Kragujevac case and to get her out of the man's mess from the seat of MPs and committee president Meho Omerovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39286	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, Col. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are working on a Rules of Procedure that is the least said, we are not going to be able to talk about most of the bill today, nor are we going to be able to discuss this amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government and we will not be able to discuss all amendments. All the objections we have made to this bill, which we have shown through the amendments, that is to say, the shortcomings and we have proposed better solutions, we will not be able to explain because due to the unification of the debate, we have been denied the time, and so three very important proposals of the National Minorities Act will be left without a quality debate. When the proposal for a law on local self-government is at stake, as a significant newspaper in the proposal, you state the amended concept of the jurisdiction of the municipality, i.e. the city. I would remind you of a major problem facing citizens of all Belgrade municipalities, which is the legalisation that Minister Mihajlovic said would be resolved by the end of 2016. I would also remind you that about 300,000 legalisation requirements have been submitted to the Secretariat for legalisation, and that only 3,000 solutions have been issued, which means that only 1% of the requirements have been resolved. When it comes to the jurisdiction of municipalities, the SRS is committed to restoring the jurisdiction to legalise facilities up to 800 squares, thus achieving greater efficiency of legalisation itself, and the municipal budget could be increased accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39288	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are still working on the far-reaching Rules of Procedure, and therefore we have a problem with what the citizens of Serbia are facing. I suppose there would also be reasonable ministers who might accept some of it, think it should be done. Mr. Minister, we tried to see why these changes and additions were so colored towards European integration and then it became clear to us, given that you were once Minister for European Integration. The ministry whose head you're headed has a lot of problems not within the Ministry itself organisationally, but what you're facing as a ministry and what you're supposed to solve may indeed be the biggest problems. In the report on the work of the Protector of Citizens, the most problems are recorded on complaints and complaints of the work of local self-government authorities. Are they dressed enough or not for these jobs, that's one question? The second question is, what is the control by the Ministry of Local Self-Government regarding the enforcement of this Law on Local Self-Government, that is, the authority of the local self-government? The Anti-Corruption Agency, also among local self-government employees, has found the most conflicting ones, who have problems respecting regulations and what is in the control agency's jurisdiction. Next, you have a problem, here's a Black Grass, which has 1661 inhabitants, is there anything you can do to help them? This is where you said how many, and tied to the population, the number of members of the council and the number of assistants of the president of the municipality. Indeed, so far, there have been abuses, although the law has said that five assistants can, only in the first day, after the establishment of local self - government, are mainly determined by five assistants of the municipality, or less if anyone else was waiting. Under the following amendments, we will try to convince you that this law is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39290	Thank you. At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39291	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, something that began in 2012, is being circled by the party state. Since local democracy has so far functioned by asking itself that the largest body with the highest power of the municipal assembly, the local self-government assembly, is now being abolished. Everything is passed on to the municipal council, as well as the head of the municipality, who has until now been obliged to submit reports on the work of the municipality's assembly and the instruments of systematisation, is only obliged to submit this municipal council to adoption. Only one bureaucratic authority is being created by the authorities that were to be elected in the local elections. The possibility of the opposition in Serbia's municipalities coming to terms, has the right to criticise and not only criticise, but to propose some improvements and point to some failures. There won't be any more of that from now on. In particular, Article 57. The chief for his work and the work of the administration corresponds to the municipal council, instead of the Assembly of the Municipality. I'm just wondering if this is the introduction to having something like this happen in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and will we then only have an advisory role here, rather than that role prescribed by the Constitution? What I still want to say, which is what every party and every responsible authority should do, which is to behave in the interests of the state, not in the interests of the ruling party. Since no one has burned until dawn, and everyone needs, what is the situation with the Rules of Procedure in the congregation, to treat the opposition as they would like to be treated as well when they are at one point an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39292	Thank you. By amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39293	Well, first of all, anyone who deals with local self-government knows that the mayor of the municipal administration has always responded to the municipal council and the president of the municipality, not the Assembly. The secretary of the congregation exists to answer to the congregation. And, I'll take this opportunity, I hope I don't get a warning, because I don't stick to the agenda, to appeal to all state institutions to help, both the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and the town of Užica, Požega, Arilla, the Great Plana, because what has been suffered during the recent rainfalls is indeed a disaster. Yesterday I was in the village of Golobac in Smederjevska Palanca. A thousand households were left without a roof over their heads, a church was destroyed, an elementary school, a kindergarten, 4,000 acres of farmland. It's what people have invested for years, whether it's a vineyard, a corn, a grain or another culture. It is truly disastrous what happened, and I am asking you, first of all, the Minister of Local Self-Government, Prime Minister and all other institutions to help all local self-government and, of course, the local self-government of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, because the consequences are truly disastrous of what I could see yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39294	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39295	Thank you. First of all, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia always responds interveningly in situations as it happened two days ago in municipalities that Mr Milojic listed. A co-ordination body or working group was formed at the government's session yesterday, consisting of representatives of the ministry, State Secretary Stevic, and also the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture. The Prime Minister will visit Topola today. The list of damages in local self-government units that were practically the subject of elemental disasters already, in accordance with the law, is done and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will definitely meet the needs of all municipalities in which these damages have occurred.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39296	By amendment, MP Alexander Seselj He doesn't have a right to a replica. [[The Faith of Radeta: Use the right to replica.]] Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: He is right. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39297	I'm sorry. Earlier, Mr. Milojic always told the chief of his work that he was responsible for the municipal council and the president of the municipality. I don't know if Mr. Milojic has a problem with the knowledge of Serbian and Cyrillic letters, but I would like to refer him to article 57 to read how the solution has been so far. (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39298	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39299	Mr. Arsic, article 27 obliges you to keep an eye on how the session will take place and how the session works. Don't listen to the messengers who speak. You have the right to say who can and who can't get the right to reply, but don't abuse it. If the MP clearly, provided you listen to him, speaks of what the previous MP spoke before him, you must allow the MP to say why he wants to rephrase, which is why he wants to explain that the previous MP spoke, or that he misread his discussion, because it is not only understood that someone needs to be named and named to mention, yet to swear him, that you would allow him the right to reply. So that right needs to be used here as much as possible if you want to talk seriously about this bill, or these amendments. A colleague who claimed that Aleksandar Seselj had not well expressed his position regarding the head of the administration was likely while he was head of the Smederjevska Palanca municipality, past the law, ending everything within his municipal council. He didn't tell the Assembly anything, and he thinks if he did it like that, he thinks it's normal and he thinks if he stole the Smederian Palanca so much, it's normal for everyone. No, it's not, and you really have to take care of it and let the MPs take part in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39300	My colleague Radeta, I understood that he supported the amendments and additions of the Law in Article 57. It's his political stance. (The Verse of Radeta: No, he said that Seselj had misread it. ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (Faith of Radeta: Yes.) Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) At the title of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the title above the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government, and, as we all know here, this is an extremely important law, because local self-government in a certain way represents one special, or fourth branch of government, besides that classic three branches of government, but I think these amendments and additions to the laws provided for here are purely cosmetic, and above all they are done for the EU's orders. I don't mind limiting the number of assistants, the number of members of the city council, or the municipal council, but it's just a cosmetic shift, these are things that have been respected more or less. There was an unwritten rule, that if a city were a district headquarters, that certainly the municipalities belonging to that district could not have had more or even the same number of councilmen as it was in the county headquarters. I think a whole new law on local self-government should have been passed, because you are witnesses, especially you from the ruling break, what happens at the levels of local self-government. Since the time when the Constitutional Court has declared that the mandate belongs to the committee, it can be said that there has been chaos in most local self-government, and although the SNS almost government in all local self-governments, there are huge problems, and this law and this interpretation is being broken down into their heads, so that in some local self-governments they must in other ways, other than those classical ways to come to share justice by turning their hands, etc., as was the latest example in Blac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39302	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of LJubenović's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39303	Thank you. With this amendment, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Self-Government, we have proposed that the title be changed so as to read – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Editing Units of Local Self-Government. Basically, there is no change in the proposed law. I can say that all proposed measures in the functioning of local self-government have been applied. One responsible relationship during the takeover of power was the SRS, which in one democratic way provided an opportunity for citizens to plead their problems, and local self-government was the service of citizens in the realization of all applications submitted. The economic development of the country is possible only if all parts of it develops uniformly. In this regard, the functioning of local self-government is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia. The law defines local self-government as the right of citizens to manage public affairs of direct importance and general importance for the local population, directly through their representative in the local self-government unit. This time I would mention a case of ministries that had no hearing and understanding for the needs and interests of the citizens of Leskovec, and especially the local community of Predejana. As part of the realization of the Corridor 10 project in Predejenska Klisura, for the construction of a loop where the "Predejane" motel had a far more favourable position to function from which about 140 families exist. It is the southern part of the town of Leskovec, and especially by building the loop, it would make an extremely strategic importance for the dynamic development of tourism on Lake Vlasin, and the development of the neglected Black Grass. I hope that ignoring the level of the ministry according to local self-government of such and similar cases and the demands of citizens in the future will not be, but will be resolved on their satisfaction and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39304	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Despotovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39305	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws aims to regulate important issues from local self-government, state administration, minority position, public agencies, parent books and use of language and letters. The amendment submitted by the SRS concerns the proposal for a law on local self-government. So far, we haven't heard a single word that speaks of earning employees in local self-government. Given the seriousness of the businesses they are doing, their profits remained at the level of 2014, when the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation reduced. From 2014 to 2017, regardless of the cost of living and the seriousness and responsibility of the employees, they only increased their salary by 5%. This attitude towards employees in local self-government often leads to the abandonment of professional and quality personnel. So the quality of services is not at what level it should be, and local self-governments stop being citizens' services. By banning employment, the competition loses importance, and the places where these quality staff and those who are retired in the meantime are unfortunately filled with party personnel of suspected qualifications and diplomas. That's why every citizen knows that in local self-government he can finish some work and achieve civil law only if he's a member of a particular party and if he knows who can finish it. Every local self-government has lost its quality, and citizens have lost their proper service. We Serbian radicals propose to preserve quality personnel in all local self-governments, while their work is adequately rewarded by increasing profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39306	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked that this title of the bill read – Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the functioning and arrangement of local self-government. I don't know why you don't combine related laws, so you didn't combine the 11th and 12th points of these proposals with the laws in the area of finance that were under consideration last week, but you, I don't know what the connection between the National Minorities Act and the election of the NBS governors is, I don't see the connection except perhaps in the fact that you're a representative of a national minority, a hero of a shameful and sad story from the Frankfurt airport, that you intend to run for one of these functions for one of these financial institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government is one of the few for which there is no emergency procedure. The proposed changes are 40% compared to the changing law. The first Law on Local Self-Government was passed away in 2007, 11 years ago. The government has waited too long to intervene in this area. The shortcomings in the practical application of the law are also too great to wait this long to get out of the vicious circle of bad solutions. Local self-government units are closest to citizens, but citizens are not close to citizens because of estrangement, due to numerous local conflicts and interests, as well as because of insufficient and incorrect determination of the authority of local self-government. The present cities and municipalities have undeniably their specificities, but also significant differences. Proposer, i.e. The government is seeking to reduce these differences, but this bill leaves only an attempt.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39308	Thank you. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Col. Ristic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government are purely cosmetic, and many of the problems of an ordinary citizen remain unresolved. First of all, we want to point to vaguely defined jurisdiction. It's all nice on paper, but when it comes out on the street, there's a whole other picture. When a real problem arises, it never settles in real time. Article 20 is much clearer in the current law, and according to these changes it is more general and only now will officials be able to transfer jurisdiction to each other. When a counterman just puts his head on a desperate citizen, he doesn't care about the statutes in accordance with the law or the number of councilmen. He's a pain in the ass that nobody hears about most of the time. These changes and additions don't solve it. Local self-government is very important to citizens and our people would have to know which door to knock on when the problem arises. Today he doesn't know it unless at least he's finished law school, and local self-government is using it a lot. There is some movement in larger cities, but everything has to be transparent, and above all, it's clear to everyone who's in charge and the services have to cooperate with each other, not everything that breaks over the back of an ordinary man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39310	The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to the bill by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39311	Here's what the essence of the SRS remarks is when we say that it's an arrangement for the functioning of local self-government, then, in the right sense, the function of local self-government needs to be arranged. In fact, we here with our mouths are talking about parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy at all levels of government, and we are witnessing that this parliamentary democracy is slowly disappearing on a republican level because the executive power by nature of things is constantly seeking to suppress this parliamentary control, but in the local government because we are prisoners of a mantra imposed on us by an NGO called NAED. HISTORY is an NGO that also belongs to the current Prime Minister and many prominent officials in the state of Serbia, people who have no responsibility and have no obligation, and impose their solutions, their opinions as the only one relevant to this country. What's this about? This is about the next one. In fact, at the local level, executive power, authorities are increasingly out of control of the local parliament. You're dealing here with trivial terms and conditions. You deal with the number of councilors. Well, the bigger the council, the better and more developed democracy at local level and the better and more developed control of the executive government. What's there to suffer? If anyone thinks he should have 70 councilmen in his municipality, so let him have those 70 councilmen, but through finance, he should influence not to waste money. You're going completely wrong. You're going the way NAED did, the NGO prescribed, you're going in form that doesn't mean anything, into decentralisation, and when it comes to finance, you literally centralize finance and don't give it to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39312	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and MP Bosko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39313	These days or maybe the last month, two days, local self-government is a state of siege. After Darko Glisic announced that he would replace some presidents of municipalities that are not doing well, various reconstructions began and, of course, to the detriment of citizens in certain local self-governments. Of that large number eventually removed, it fell first to twenty, then to ten, then at the end of five, and even according to the latest media information, even Dragica Nikolic's son will not be removed. They forgot to give their mom a municipal medal, forgot that the foundation's mom gave 600,000 euros to fix up, allegedly gave to take care of children's playgrounds and parks. According to all real estimates, it costs about 100,000 euros at most, but in any case, here, it has to be done again because it was done so well a year ago. Of course, only Kragujevac is problematic. You know that all of Serbia is making fun of some of your community presidents, who have really done such things that if they weren't sad, they'd be funny. You know that some of your presidents of the municipality officially opened the toilets in the cemetery, that they were opening formal traffic lights, walking crossings, and similar to the son of Dragica Nikolic, and the son of a mother in Leskovac, the mayor assigned a confession to his mother for the most beautifully decorated courtyard and the municipal event he held in his backyard. So, these are some things that may seem banal, but something that is absolutely inadmissible, and what you as a minister should also take care of, and that your services go around a little bit, to see what is happening and where and how the money is being spent by the citizens of these local self-governments. We'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39314	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39315	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and associates, since, in the spirit of these proposed amendments and the addition of this law, we are talking about certain language harmonisations, I would like, very well-intentioned and even more constructively to point out to you one very important thing regarding both the areas of these laws that you have proposed and the Law on the territorial organisation of Serbia. Here's the thing. In the census, apartments and households since 1971, settlements in Serbia have been divided into three categories: urban, rural and mixed. Out of the population list, apartments and households in 1981 and in all the following lists, there is one unusual thing, that only category of urban settlements remains, while rural settlements are eliminated and classified with mixed settlements in a faceless group – the rest of the settlements. So believe it or not, currently according to Serbia's territorial organisation and local self-government itself, villages in Serbia do not exist, so most of the territory of the state that makes up 4.539 rural settlements is classified in a group of nameless, or other settlements. The concept of the village, the same-named category of settlement – rural settlements, does not exist either in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or in the laws, although the concept of the village is non-institutionally used, let's say, and SANU, as the highest scientific institution, where there is a Committee on the Village, to the content of various internet presentations of all towns and municipalities, or local self-government where rural settlements are shown as an integral part of individual municipalities and cities. So, if there were words, and there were words in your proposal to amend and supplement the law to bring certain language things into line, I think that, first of all, Mr. Minister, it was necessary to return the category of village to the territorial organisation of Serbia and the organisation of local self-government. Is it possible that we are so humiliating the Serbian village and peasants that we have thrown the village out of the territorial organization and placed it in some other settlements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39316	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39317	Thank you. It's simple, because of precision. This matter is governed by the List Act, so it's not the subject of this law. And the next list is, if I'm not mistaken, in 2021, so we really have time to emulate what you were talking about. What the law says, and perhaps you haven't read, is that there is an obligation to form local communities in rural areas, so it certainly takes care of rural settlements. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39318	You have no right to a replica, colleague Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39319	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I need to draw your attention to putting yourself in the role of Serbian citizens living in the country and dealing with agriculture, not only in the context of these weather problems and the destruction of their complete lives and properties and crops and the future and how they will survive this year at all, and how to invest anything, and where, in some way, to say the future agricultural season. It's not a theme here. Here's the theme of how they feel if their own state forgot them. I can now give you 100 concrete examples of how their own state, or government, has forgotten them from the fact that Serbia is the only country in Europe that does not regress diesel fuel, etc. But I'm going back to what I told you. If you have not noticed, and you have changed the Law on Local Self-Government, if the Government has not noticed, and has changed the Law on the Territorial Organization of Serbia, that in Serbia, the category of village does not exist, and that everything that is not called cities - remains settlements, then you have proved what I claim - that you do not care about the village, that you have forgotten the village and that you have even erased it as the concept and category of the territorial organisation of Serbia. You tell me now – here, there will be a list in 2021 and then we will remember the village. Do you understand, Mr. Minister, how irresponsible that is? Today, immediately, go back to work after this session and solve the problem, so that Serbian citizens no longer feel discriminated because they live in the country, to be recognized as a settlement in Serbia's territorial organisation and local self-government. So don't be hard on me and make excuses -- we're now predicting local communities within the village. You didn't predict villages even exist in Serbia. It's a scandal over scandals and you have to understand how people who live in the country feel. And we're all from the village. Probably a small number of us can only have city origins. Probably 99% of us are from the village. Are we ashamed of the village where we come from or what's the problem? And how did the state come in a position to forget about the country, to forget about the Serbian peasant and the agriculture, even in the category and concept of villages which, therefore, do not recognise Serbia's territorial organisation? It looks amazing, but it really doesn't recognize him. There are city and other settlements. Where's the village? It's not a city, it's not a settlement. It is a serious category that has obviously lost the attention of the state, which has lost its position in this country, which has lost the support of the government, which has lost the treatment that must have a village as a source of our biological, military, economic and any other force. You have to understand that this is a symbolic question, like when I told you that you can't delete Serbian citizenship from passports from October 1st 2018. These are essential, identical, symbolic things. If there is no village in Serbia's territorial organisation, imagine how people living in the country feel. So you have to take what I wanted to tell you more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39320	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. There is a saying: "It is better to suffer after the village than to suffer in the country." So you find Bosko Obradovic here. So, you leave the village with the whole family, you come down to town, then you get a bad apartment in one part of town, and you go downtown and then you pour crocodile tears at the village and you say that those villages shouldn't be settlements. The settlements are villages. Villages are settlements. There are 1,200 villages in Serbia that have less than 100 inhabitants. Those who left the village often list it. They want to have sister-in-laws in the country, but sisters and daughters fled to the city. They want to have married couples in the country, and the men left alone, there's 300 thousand singles. Now they cannot understand that there are now twice in Serbia. Both lead in one direction and the other. There's a path that leads to the world, from the village, and there's a path that leads to that world. I'm on this other road. I won't leave the village until I go to the other world. And Bosko Obradovic belongs to those who left the village for a hard life, because of better comfort, etc., and now his crocodile tears can be considered a political means to win a voice. Go ahead, on behalf of dignity, let him return to the village of Vranic or whatever his name is, to his father's estate, and I will respectfully praise Bosko Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39322	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. You don't want the assembly to declare itself in voting day. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39323	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108. – on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly is taken care of, so would you please explain to me what the relationship between Bosko Obradović, his family and where he lives, with the violation of the Rules of Procedure from the address of the previous speaker? I understand that you will have more understanding for the representatives of the ruling majority that they can talk about whatever they want, but then let me say in the context of the breach of the Rules of Procedure that Bosko Obradovic was born in the country, in the village of Vranići near Cačka, that we recently had something that we traditionally make as a meeting of all Obradovics who came from the village of Vranić near Cačka, that there are 70 of us who came from one house of Obradovic from that village and that more than 80% of them still live in that village and are engaged in agriculture, such as, among others, my father, who is retired. Also in the village of Vranići near Cačka. So, I don't think there's any reason to get into these private matters, when I asked one final principle question for the minister, to see if our government is ashamed of the villages and why the village is classified in the rest of the settlements? Look out, it's a humiliation for the Serb village. Thus, not in “populations, ” but in“ other settlements. ” So, the city is important and the city is important for the territorial organisation of Serbia, and the rest of the settlements are slightly less important. And the village's nowhere to be found. This is essentially insulting the village and peasant in this country and this is the biggest possible violation of the Rules of Procedure and even discrimination against someone who lives in the country at this time and the Obradovic family and how they live and work in the country, still in their native village, where we are 200 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39324	Thank you. Just to ask if you'd like the Assembly to come forward in the voting day? (No) The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39325	Thank you, Chairman. I really have no intention of walking into a trap to plow, nor do I have that possibility, with the MPs, but simply because of precision. The government is not proposing amendments to the Law on Territorial Organization. That's what you saw, I hope in the agenda, and this is about the proposal of four MPs, your colleagues sitting in this house and, above all, the municipality of Bor and Prokuplje. As for the Law on Territorial Organization, which you mentioned, there is a term “populated place. ” Neither the village shall be discriminated against nor the city favored. The inhabited place, thank God, here you mentioned the village from which you originate, there are people, as soon as it is inhabited, is a term used in law. The inhabited place can be a village, it can be a city, so I understand the need to practically use it to acquire some political profit, and it is legitimate, not controversial, but simply not based on norms and, I would say, it is not correct to go to the sentiment of those people who really work hard and dedicatedly in the village. The termins that exist in the law, which are recognised – a populated town and a catastrian municipality. There's nothing disputed about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39326	National MP Marija Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janjušević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39327	Thank you, Chairman. The minister gave me good cream when it comes to local communities. Just let me still notice that it's really untasteful for a member of the party who's been making hats in this unhappy country since 1992 to honor someone's political points. In what way you have held out so far all these years, indeed, the citizens of Serbia know well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39328	I'm asking you about the amendment, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39329	To go back to the local communities that actually instead of getting their real responsibilities are being choked. It is not clear to me why the SNS is not enough that in the council of the local community it is no longer possible for you to be a member of the party, but seems to be growing some mutual mistrust, because the local community, regardless of the members of the ruling party alone, has no independence whatsoever, cannot afford to help citizens in the most direct way possible way, but is choking. I will read, in particular in the work of monitoring the work of the local community's authorities, have led to their ineffectiveness and to the use of the Constitutional Court in its numerous decisions to regulate the illegality of the provisions of the statutes of the units of local self-government. So, and that little independence that the local communities had was abolished. Everything tells us these amendments to the Law on the work of local self-government, that it's actually coming to this higher level now and now. It is known to all that many of the presidents of the municipalities, although members of the SNS, are not actually independent in their work and that their foreigners, not the citizens they represent, are responsible for the budget they have. So, one general centralization. I have already announced that the most important person in Serbia at the moment, the only one who decides on our fates, must be calling for the mayor of Belgrade and the president of every local community in Serbia, and he obviously found a way to implement it. What is particularly special, which is particularly distracting and eye-stamping, is that local self-government should monitor the course of European integration and develop their capacities in this direction. I really don't understand when and where and at what level citizens will be a priority, and when their direct interest in terms of kindergarten, education and everything else will actually be in the first place. So, all in all, we have one person decorated in the president of Serbia and in the president of every local community in Serbia. And what kind of result that will yield, we'll see soon enough, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39330	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with Associates, the amendment I have submitted, is that something that you have thrown out of article 1, and you have thrown out after words - representatives, words - in units of local self-government. In a slightly altered form, we return them. And, of course, you refused, but what you refused is not in line with this brochure that you gave us, and I think that the return of this definition that I have proposed can prevent some of the problems that arise before the adoption of this law, and probably when the law is passed, the problems will only be able to escalate. The brochure says the Law on Local Self-Government will foster better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy and greater public inclusion. I agree with that that's the way it should be, but I doubt that you as a competent minister have been informed that a few days ago the director of the New Market Museum is at a state-protected facility, you can't see this picture that I'm showing you has ordered you to hang a mural on which it writes -- Bosnian speaking, writing and thinking. I own the painting. The Institute for Protectors of Cultural Monuments in the King says - don't give those hot potatoes to Vesovac, etc. And why am I bringing this up? The same brochure says - this law can enable citizens to be encouraged and thus determines that 5% of the total number of citizens with voting rights is enough to launch a citizens' initiative. And now you imagine that the city of Pazar, which has 20% of Serbs, is triggering a civic initiative to remove what is illegal, and 80% of those who are Muslim faith live in that city and encourage this to be. What are we going to do in such cases, Mr. Minister? I know you don't know this. This is a hot topic. This is a subject that hurts Serbian citizens, which is also related to the laws that will come after and that is why I believe that the law should have returned that sentence that you have thrown out. Here, I suggested it, when I suggested, I didn't know about this. I say, the photograph is to see, contrary to the law, contrary to the Constitution, what you will take. How are you going to take it if you're throwing out such formulas in law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39332	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Šulkić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 1, the Proposer predicted that words should be deleted – units of local self-government when it comes to representatives. In this sense, I do not know how this represents a linguistic improvement because it is just giving a wider sense of meaning if these words are deleted, it is given a wider sense of meaning, and it can be thought and confused for some other representatives, because citizens are also elected by representatives of local communities, elected by MPs in parliamentary elections, elected by the President of the Republic. So in this sense, this is not a sure language improvement, and we think that it is a completely different motive to submit with the amendments to this article, to actually be a front and one barrier to reach some of the other members who have been proposed to amend this law in order to discuss them. And you change with a look, so-called. The amendments to the review have already been seen and a lot of words about it have been spent, so I'm not going to talk about it right now. We followed that proposal. We didn't ask him to change. On the other hand, we asked for this opportunity to take advantage of another intervention on that changing member. When it comes to citizens in the area of local self-government, the solution is from earlier, you have not introduced it, are treated as local residents. The Republic of Serbia has citizens. The territory is unique. When it comes to residents, we are all residents of the area of certain local self-government, so in this sense we can also be considered local. If there is a local population, the question arises – who is not a local? If we talk about local self-government and the exercise of the right to manage public businesses in matters of local self-government, the Law on Local Elections is clear there. So, only those who have residence for more than six months can participate, it seems to me, in the area of certain local self-government and in this sense they have the opportunity to participate in public affairs, as is the same citizen who, if this law remains a solution and this amendment is not accepted, and I see that the Government has not accepted, that citizen is at the same time considered a local resident. If accepted, it could indeed be considered a language improvement. There's nothing on the board. Not to enter the controversy of who then passed the law, who failed to change, whether he agreed or disagreed. This is not important at all, and I believe that in this sense, perhaps this solution could be accepted and at the same time respects the intervention, that is, the change proposed by the Government. On the other hand, the proposal itself to amend the law and supplement, on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, has some solution and intensity of some specific changes and can be observed. However, one of the previous speakers, a colleague, said that this may not have been done in one systematic way and that it might have been necessary to prepare and pass a new law, all of which should be observed in the context of electoral legislation. Of course, at this point, for some reasons, I still don't want to open up the controversy of why it is, avoids talking about it, but I think if we are talking, we are all at the expense of some problems in local self-government that they are just coming from electoral legislation, and that this should lead to a broader public debate, essentially, and that after that we should reform fundamentally, as you often say, you are giving this dimension to these interventions of the Law on Local Self-Government, the reform of this legislation regarding local self-government. I don't have time to include all these changes, but in the context of this member, or the national representatives of the local self-government units, there is a linguistic deterioration. This optimization you are talking about can also be accepted as a good solution as regards the number of committees, the number of members of the council, the number of assistants, etc. When the assistants of the president of the municipality are at stake or mayor, I will say in principle, since I am asked by assistants from the Great Plan, not to mention them, because they say that I am disrupting their reputation in the public as if their involvement in the way they are engaged did not violate their reputation and municipalities, but in principle, it may have been an opportunity if you were already dealing with this issue to predict the degree of professional training, i.e. first areas for which assistants can engage. The law lists itself there, so other areas are being put in place, and not to mention some examples now, there are all kinds of things. On the one hand, it's not the main source of the problem of the number of assistants, I think the biggest problem is their incompetence. I'm not saying it's in all cases, but in order to prescribe certain conditions, so you can't law it now and say it must have finished that and that college. But if it's about the assistant, he's formatted in the municipal administration, and it's supposed to be, that's what he asked us in the Great Plan, so I have a solution to the fact that in the act of systemization, or in the decision, the municipal administration has to state which areas to write the terms, so it would be good to kind of force, or pressure the law force to be regulated, because watch out, the assistant president of the municipality, the mayor means a certain expertise. So, the kind of education, the degree of professional training for the area for which it is engaged, and it would be desirable to have a certain experience. Because hiring incompetent people is actually an indicator of what kind of human policy is being conducted, and of course it's also an indicator for young people who are being educated and then we wonder at some point why young people are largely leaving, because of course they can't compete if they're not politically accomplished or scarred however you want, then they don't stand a chance. So, I'm speaking in principle, I'm not personally considering anyone, and I think this was an opportunity to do something about it. In addition, if we have assistants for various areas, which are certainly not the priority of citizens, why don't we have anti-urban protection assistants, see that it's current, we're not back this year for a number of years, so if the municipalities are getting anti-building missiles why instead of the state or together with the state, why don't we have the assistants of the president of the municipalities for anti-urban protection. Here, extremely well-intentioned, so please consider, even if this intervention with the local population is appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39334	The word has a minister, Mr. Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39335	As for the assistant president and mayor's assistant, it's about people who are practically the closest associates of the president, you, Mr. Schulkic, know it best, you've been in one long period of time at the head of a municipality. As for the findings or the order of administrative inspection, and you're right, it was two and a half years ago or three, but when the Act of Employees in the Autonomous provinces, the units of local self-government, the assistants go to the cabinet, so it's just not the case anymore and it's not fact-finding, and what you said might have an aide to anti-urban protection, no one disputes or restricts that if the president finds the need for an assistant for such an area. So, these priority areas that the president is focusing on, you'll allow it to be up to him and to the ruling majority that defines the situation, but when you've already mentioned anti-urban protection, I have to say that these elemental areas are unfavourable from two days ago, here we've now been informed that the state of emergency has also been introduced in the municipality of Petrovac at Mlavi. So we have to bear in mind the fact that for this previous period in Serbia, anti-building missiles have been fired four times more than they have done in the average years before. What is technically a simple problem is these city clouds that come from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, if they are not treated above the territory of these countries, ultimately do not have many positive effects in preventing what unfortunately happened. But what is important is that there is co-operation between Serbia and Republika Srpska, or BiH, is to establish this co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and this kind of thing has not been resolved in the times of the former Yugoslavia, because it was then a unique anti-building protection, and so to say, these negative consequences have been reduced to a minimum. It is now important to re-integrate the entire territory in terms of anti-urban protection and preventive action. Not to make it look like the government, the MUP, the Emergency Centre, the local self-government, the Ministry of Agriculture are doing their job, doing it much better and much more up-to-date, more responsible than it was in earlier years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39336	My colleague, on what grounds? (Dejan Šulkic: The minister addressed me directly. Did he insult you? (Dejan Šulkic: He did not offend, but one controversy, please. Well, you can't, you have to do business. I'm sorry. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39337	So, Mr. Chairman, only an insult is the basis for replication, not normal controversy, if I understand you correctly. Okay. To return Mr. Minister to what is the reason for these amendments to our interventions, which are the shortcomings of your amendments and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government. I repeatedly pointed to them, your answers were quite thin, when I drew your attention that you had abolished the incentives for cooperatives and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, that you had abolished local stock reserves in changes and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, that you had introduced sensitive groups, and you would not say who you think of and whether you were thinking of migrants and why local self-governments across Serbia are being imposed on migrant centres and whether you are following these new European movements that the most powerful countries of Western Europe are racing to figure out how to place migrant centres from now on, countries outside the EU. I have an incredible feeling that on our already pointless road to the EU, certainly another condition is that Serbia becomes one of the largest migrant centres in Europe. So, don't throw out what's important to us, which is to encourage cooperatives and local goods reserves, and to put in what's security and any other problem that you're moving empty Serbian villages to migrants. So again, I ask you, are migrants what you call sensitive groups that you introduce into the law on local self-government? Yes or no? And will the empty Serbian villages settle with migrants when ordered by the Brussels Central Committee? Yes or no? A very simple question and I ask you for your answer. Why is the Serbian Dvora Movement so unhappy with your proposals to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government? Because you ignored two key topics. The first is the financing of local self-government, and I will remind you, Mr. Minister, that the government in which the SPS normally participates as in all governments in the last 28 years, in different ways, has already robbed local budgets twice by reducing the original revenues that are due to remain local budget. The first was done by Mladjan Dinkic, and then by Ana Brnabic, who is your predecessor as minister. So how do you expect local self-governments to function normally when you take away some of their original incomes and transfer our local money to your republican register? It is a convenient way to fill out the republican budget, but you must bear in mind that in dozens and hundreds of millions of dinars, there is a smaller budget of local self-government. Among other things, the town of Chačka from which I come. So I ask you a very direct and clear question – are you actually operating on the next system? So we rob local self-government into their budgets, transfer money to the central republican budget, and then give local self-governments a spoon for the projects they propose. And what self-government we give, which we don't give, that's what we're going to decide at the republican level. What's the problem? Discrimination. Instead of keeping our money in our local self-governments and having our local authorities determine what our money will invest in, with what you've provided well for these amendments and the additions to the law, which are local referendums, especially the referendums on where the investments go and what our local money from the local budget will go for, you've taken our local money nicely, transferred them to the Republic budget, and now you're giving us back our money, to a spoon like you think. Then of course, the more you return to Jagodina, because Mr. Palma supports your republican authority, so let's give him a little more money. Then give the Kragujevac back, because there's someone's son in power there, so he doesn't go bankrupt and ruin the whole city, let's save him from the Republic budget. Then give Belgrade before the elections to buy votes. You see, it's manipulation and discrimination. You use the money of all local self-governments from Serbia, and then distribute them as you think of the party membership of the president of the municipality and the mayor of the cities. Look, it's an extremely dangerous system that's run by the state administration, and you're the minister of state administration and local self-government. So, you rob local budgets, you don't allow us to use our original incomes to invest them in what local self-government needs based on a national referendum, and you take it nicely and pack it into a republican budget, and then you share it in a party way that fits your party's acronyms at a local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39338	My colleague Obradovic, I have to draw attention to a member of 107 to you that the National Assembly passed the law, not the Government, so you accuse all MPs of robbing local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39339	Well, if it's so specific, I'll agree with you. So the majority who voted the law to reduce their original incomes to local self-government. Look, it's not a joke here. So, we live in local self-government, we don't live in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In our local self-government, we have original incomes. The government remembered one morning, and the ruling majority in the Assembly supported it, to take away our original incomes, and to go to the republican register under government control, and then to have the government pay us back and share, as she thinks it should, our money. Wait, that's a big problem. Why? Because of discrimination and manipulation, where you then approve of money for you close local authorities, and not to those who, for example, belong to the opposition, and local governments are self-government. So then, I don't know, the Belgrade gondola, because you're in power, to help me with how much money, but the Goldibor Gondola, which is much more important and which is more strategic and touristic, you won't help at all. Why? Well, because there is a president of a municipality that is not loyal to your republican authority, or belongs to the opposition. Do you understand, Mr. Minister, how dangerous it is when you take our money and you assign them to a party. Another problem I want to point out here is the profit and impact of employees in local self-government. We have a big problem here. In local self-governments in Serbia, employees are divided into unemployed, those who are party-protected to do nothing or not to come to work at all, or to leave work whenever they want and others, on whom the local self-government system actually rests and who work overtime and double because we have party unemployed who do nothing. So we have two problems. The first is – you did not provide for these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government how to stop the new administration of party workers and, on the other hand, how to reward those exceptional officials in local self-government who, on their shoulders, by their work, by their expertise and by their ability to keep these local self-governments working at all. So it's pay grade, it's, what you can't do. How, therefore, to reward a man in local self-government who is extremely doing his job on that counter, under difficult conditions, with so much pressure from citizens, overtime, etc. How to punish a party parasite and a non-worker who exists in the biggest local administration, who you can't do anything about, and he can do whatever he wants. If you don't solve this, you won't solve the problem of functioning local self-government. So there's no such thing in this proposed law. And that's where I actually wanted to round up your story. European integration is important to you and you are putting special members of this law in which the entire system of local self-government in Serbia should adapt to European integration. Well, wait, you won't be in power for maybe a year, Mr. Ruzic, maybe the foreign policy of Serbia will change, maybe we'll all understand that the process of Serbia's entry into the EU is devastating, catastrophic, bad, pointless, that we will never enter the EU, that we should never again adapt to and suffer pressures, blackmails and conditions from Brussels. So what do we do? Well, we're gonna have to change the law. So, don't force us on a non-alternative path into the EU, which has already cost us so much, that even local self-governments now have to adapt to that. By the way, solve these two issues that are painful, return to local self-government their original income, jurisdiction, property, money, and local self-governments will decide where they will invest. And, secondly, reward quality officials in local self-government by increasing their salary, and their salaries are disastrously small and their salaries are reduced when you came to power and you didn't pay them back, let alone increase them. You know, Mr. Ruzic, you're the minister, you answer my question, to see how fast your associates will send you a text message and answer this question - when was the last time the salary of officials working in local self-government in Serbia was increased? When's the last time? Here, please, answer publicly in front of the entire public of Serbia. And please specify the salary of officials in local self-government in Serbia before the pay cut, and how much is it today and when it was last increased. That's the topic you as minister should be dealing with. Some people do their job extremely well throughout Serbia in local self-government, practically dying in their workplace. When did you reward them? When did you visit them? When did you commend them? When you told them, wouldn't local self-government work without you? And when you punished any party unemployed and sitting parasites, the four in one chair in the office, in which you hired your SNS party activists and the Socialist Party of Serbia? So, please, these are the real questions and I'm asking the answers to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39340	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39341	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 107. He spoke of the unemployed, a violation of dignity, when he spoke of the unemployed as a spokesman for the Chapanese library, hired by Velja Ilic and all six members of the family. When he was still a member of the library, a spokesman was awarded 50,000 euros from the Kolubara mine. Now, when he talks that he's never sweated is not about the unemployed, I'm really touched but it's a violation of dignity. Secondly, he's talking about the robbery of the MPs, you warned him here a little bit, you shouldn't have. There are two MPs who have robbed local self-government, one called Goran Jesic Indjija, two billion and six million, except he didn't say who they are, and the other one is the Hyenic Smederjevska Palanka, four billion. So in that part, he's right, and you shouldn't have touched him. Now a little bit about migrants. He spoke very negatively. Every other Serb emigrated. We had our migration in the war because of troubles, wars, etc. We need to be particularly sensitive about it. He who, along with the DS, did not allow two nights in Mladenov to spend the night with migrants, has no right to speak for the dignity of the National Assembly of Migrants. We in Libya and Iraq have earned good money and made houses, many of us, and we have to have at least so much understanding that we do not block migration to go to Europe, which is responsible, along with the Americans, for their troubles. Why would I defend Europe and Americans from migrants who are just passing through our country? In the end, Mr. Chairman, they don't think the patriarch was a migrant, so they wouldn't let him enter Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39342	Thank you. My colleague Rističević, you were aware that I tried to influence my colleague Obradovic to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not doing very well today. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the first MP was Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39343	I thank the chairman. I am advertising Article 106 because you have failed to apply the Rules of Procedure in the most direct manner for violating the Rules of Procedure. The speaker, who spoke about everything but the amendment, apparently speaks contrary to the Rules of Procedure, or without the agenda. Neither is the subject of an amendment to the anti-immigration policy, nor are they subject to amendments to employment in local self-governments and wages in local self-governments, nor is it the subject or subject of what should be said, something that relates to punishments or I don't know what. None of what the subject of the amendment speaker has said. The moment he and his party gain the opportunity to change the law in most of this assembly, we have nothing against it. Let the law put it in order the way they want it, but if they put it in order the way they're saying it now, then this country is really in danger. For this reason, I ask you to keep an eye on how it is said, how it is said, that there is no use of a pay phone for the EPP, because political marketing Bosko Obradovic can be conducted outside this hall in a place where this marketing can be conducted and not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39344	The same answer as I gave my colleague Risticevic, it is almost impossible to force my colleague Obradovic to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and what stories judge voters. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 103. Rules of Procedure, abuse of Rules of Procedure. I don't know why, like Wednesday and today, you're taking the same steps to make a mess of this session. You allowed Mr. Risticevic to, as always, abuse the Rules of Procedure most brutally. He talked about everything in his two minutes, except for what the Rules of Procedure advertised. You didn't warn him about it, you didn't give him a warning, you didn't take two minutes away from the time of their MP's group, you let him talk about the dignity of this parliament as a reality star, that he was talking about honesty as someone whose wife was in prison for stealing goods reserves, who forged a passport...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39346	Mr. Alexic, I give you a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: What is the warning now?- I'm sorry. () When Mrs. Risticevic is a National MP, you will be able to say so, until then. When Mrs. Risticevic is a National MP, you will be able to talk about it. (Miroslav Aleksic: Why didn't you warn him when he took out photos of my wife? ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure. That's the first thing. The second thing, a reminder that has been given to you, has been given to you because of your untrueness. (Miroslav Aleksic: Me? Yes, you. You're making the most of the untrues. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39347	Mr Arsic, I know that Marijan Risticevic is the image of SNS and Alexander Vukic and his favorite MP. I'm advertising Article 109. How many times have a picture of the woman and Dragan Sutanovac and Mr Alexic and Dragan Gilas, i.e. a girl, and all the opposition people, representatives, MPs? What does it look like you're doing? How can you not be ashamed? You're making a warning to Mr. Alexic for what he said. Well, how long do you think you'll be able to do that? Do you realize this is what the people are watching? Do you realize that people who aren't politically active sit here and see what you're doing? We demand that you give the notice to your favorite MP and image of the SNS, and physically and intellectually, Marijana Rističević. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39348	(Radoslav Milojičić: Shame on you! And you, George, shame on you. ) Dear fellow Milojitsu, calm down. Please inhale the air and count to ten, everything's fine. (Radoslav Milojic: There is nothing wrong. You're absolutely right, there's nothing wrong with you, but I can't help you. (Radoslav Milojic): That you think is okay, nothing is wrong. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Excuse me, colleague Martinovic. (Radoslav Milojic): There is no woman they have not mentioned, everyone's wife is mentioned. I give you a second warning, colleague Alexic. You've received another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. From session to session, the mourning remains of the Serbian opposition lead the most dirty campaign against Marijan Risticevic, citing his wife's alleged imprisonment for some fictitious crime. Marijan Risticevic is not an SNS MP, but he is selected from the list Aleksandar Vučić – Serbia wins, and the campaign that is being led against him these days, you know, is being led by animal protectors who have every single 120 kilos of live scales, probably because many eat spinach and other plants and accuse Marijan Risticevic of allegedly wanting to introduce inhumane killing of chinchillas in Serbia, and what Mr. Marijan Risticevic did a few days ago, he showed photographs that clearly show people who are allegedly human to animals and wear pumpkins, cobblers, leather jackets, etc. As far as I know, roaches, pumpkins, leather jackets aren't made out of spinach, or glare, or tomatoes, but from some furry animals. I don't see why anyone gets angry if certain opposition leaders show up dressed in pumpkins, shubs and leather jackets, and they don't get off TV these days like N1, B92, etc., attacking in the worst possible way the MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39350	I assume the minister wants us back on the subject and that's why he called. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39351	Thank you, President. We always try to be on the subject, not getting into what MPs sometimes use their right to defend the amendment for other purposes. Therefore, regarding the issues mentioned concerning the financing of units of local self-government, this law simply does not treat the issue. It's not the matter this law deals with. I say that not because the MP in question does not understand it, but rather because of the public. As for cooperatives, I would like to remind you that we have clearly changed the concept first of all and we are looking back at areas defined by the Constitution and sectoral or specific laws, and that, in parallel to that, a real list has already been done almost 80% of those affairs that local self-government is dealing with. So it just doesn't stand. As for vulnerabilities or sensitive groups, it is a broad enough concept to cover all those groups to which it applies. Of course, the state of Serbia has shown first and foremost solidarity because of the negative effects of the migrant crisis, which is one axiom of the behaviour of all Serbian citizens and that is something that, in my opinion, is not controversial, but migrants are not the subject of this law. As far as non-employees in local self-government units are concerned, the law also does not address the issue, the issue is resolved by the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Local Self-Government Units. There's a working time, there's a reward system, and you know it. As for the salary hike to the civil servants, if I had the space to answer you right away, I would have answered. In November of last year, 5% of the state officials received an increase. Whether that's enough or not, that's another question. In any case, the government is very responsible for both the budget and all state officials who work hard. Whether the party policy that I belong to, whether or not I'm going to get into it, whether or not it's going to change the status after these 28 years, I think it's a good thing that you sometimes learn lessons from being so long on the political scene to see how one serious political party works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39352	Before we continue to work, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Since I have returned here, honourable MPs, I would like to inform you that, as we have completed the debate on points 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of this session, I am setting out Friday 15 June 2018, starting at 14.00 hours, as a day for voting on points 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda of this session, which has been concluded, i.e.: Proposal for a law on the approval of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-Government on the right to take part in the affairs of local authorities; a proposal to elect the governor of the NBS; a proposal for election of Vice Governors; a selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and a proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court. It's 2:00 p.m., and after that, we'll have a break and proceed with a further discussion of the amendments. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39353	I would like to thank the President. I'm reporting by amendment for the simple reason that I find the amendment absolutely legally unacceptable. The reasons set out in the amendment do not justify the amendment. They differ from the subject of the amendments, and therefore make the amendment meaningless in relation to the reasoning given. In order to highlight the facts of the citizens, in order for the citizens to be familiar with the truth, as opposed to what the amendments explain, I will also say something that no one can raise doubts about the work of the ministry, respected ministers, and your associates. It is specifically about the allocation of the budget fund to the local self-government programme. Here we have heard through an economic-political programme of some kind of transfer funds that are not given to local self-government, namely something is reportedly being taken away by local self-governments. Only because of the fact, I point out that as many as 60 units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia competed on a public call for the law to be passed by local self-government units for several types of projects defined through three objectives. The first objective is the fact-based infrastructure development programmes, i.e. investments in the reconstruction of cultural objects. The second goal is to provide financial and technical and other assistance for the development and introduction of electronic administrations, and the third objective is to provide assistance or support in the organisation of cultural, sports, tourism and other events. In all these three objectives, the ministry and the minister, headed by our fellow and respected Mr Branko Ruzic, have done much, so that all units of local self-government, regardless of how discrimination was done, regardless of who formed power in those units of local self-government, received adequate funds. These funds are even 30.7 times higher this year than it was in 2017. In particular, 262 billion and 87,000 dinars were invested for infrastructure development programmes and investment in the reconstruction of buildings, excuse me, 262 million. My bad. All in all, it's about getting something that local self-government didn't have so far. They didn't have this kind of support. In this direction, I must stress the great gratitude of the citizens of Sevojn, the township of Užica, and thus the city of Užica, which has received 8.5 million dinars just about this project from the first goal, i.e. this first group of projects, which implies the possibility of a reconstruction of an object that has been destroyed, which has somehow come into a phase that can literally collapse, and this facility will be in the future in the function of an object in which cultural activities and all other activities will be affirmed in the best possible way. Not only in Užica, many other units of local self-government have participated and applied and received appropriate funds. To deny whoever ran the economic-political program. I must point out that there are units of local self-government, where the government does not represent a personification of government from the Republic. Where there is no SNS or SPS in power. In particular, the municipality of Čajetina received certain funds, and there is neither SNS nor SPS in power. So, unlike everything that's been put forward through political promotion as a lie, not to use any other word, I've brought just facts and these facts mean that this trend, that this concept of work, when it comes to the Ministry of State and local self-government, will continue. And, in that direction, this concept of work respects every kind of support. And support not only for us here, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of this benefit only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And that means helping local self-government units to be in the right sense a service to meet the needs of its citizens, i.e. citizens living in those territories, and that is no one but our citizens. Therefore, I find the amendment, not only legally unacceptable, but absolutely factually unfounded and meaningful, or calculated only on the attempt to devalue everything that has been positively done and based on arguments. We in the SPS parliamentary group, and our party has always had a strong argument, and our messages to citizens are as strong as the argument is strong, and we always try and continue to recognize it for 28 years, as a state-of-the-art party that got involved in all historical periods, in all historical stages from 1990 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39354	By amendment? Of course not. [[Bosko Obradovic: I have the right to replica.]] According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39355	Thank you, Chairman, even though I had the right to a replica of the minister. What the minister has avoided to answer again, and these are very simple questions, I must repeat. So you gave a very thin answer why you threw out cooperatives and local stock reserves from the Law on Local Self-Government. There's no reason to get it out of the Law on Local Self-Government. Secondly, you have still avoided answering a very simple question – yes or no. Do the sensitive groups you introduce deliberately in this law involve migrants? Yes or no? That all of us in Serbia in local self-government know that you plan to populate Serbia with migrants. That you plan to settle the empty Serbian villages for migrants when ordered by the Brussels Central Committee, because the EU no longer wants to go on its territory, so it will send you and you as obedient Eurointegration soldiers to accept that you settle empty spray villages with migrants. So, does the amendment that you introduced sensitive groups involve migrants or not? It's a very simple question. You escaped again to answer the question. And another thing. You have admitted that you have not actually considered amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government and changes and additions to the Law on employees of local self-government units, and you have, in fact, acknowledged that you do not care that the Republic government is taking away original incomes from local self-government and that you do not care how to raise salaries to employees in local self-government. I don't know how you were allowed here to say that last year you raised your salary for 5% of your employees in local self-government units, and you forgot to say that you cut them by 10% a few years ago. So you haven't even returned the time they had before your 10% reduction. So, you're talking about an increase. That's scandalous, Mr. Minister. What increase? Compared to 10% reduction, you've increased 5%. Well, wait, please. Well, we're not as mentally restricted as Serbian citizens, so I don't understand what you're telling us. That we got an increase of 5% to a 10% reduction. Great increase and thank you very much. You have greatly improved the standard of living employed by local self-government. You didn't answer the question, too, when before this scandalous increase of 5% to a 10% reduction in the last salary in local self-government units. When, Mr. Minister? When in your time of power, in the last 28 years? When? So, please state the amount of salary employed by local self-government. Not the mayor and your members of the city and municipal councils, the mayor's assistant, specify how many salaries are employed by the counters in local self-government units, and when you last increased it and when you will and how to separate the unemployed from the workers. Very simple questions, I ask you to answer, not to avoid the answer anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39356	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39357	The President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with a team of associates, MPs and MPs and respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, finally after this unfounded and inappropriate debate, remarks and attacks by our colleague Boška Obradovic, here, let us also return to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government and the debate in particular. First of all, I would like to commend the team of collaborators and Minister Branko Ružić for the activities and work in this area and the particular effort and effort to regulate the interests of our local population and the management of our public affairs of general interest to all our citizens. What I would propose with this amendment and what I think is very important, both legal and regulatory, is not one cosmetic change, but a change in Article 1. The proposal for a law to say: "the law and ability of the local self-government authority" replaces the words "the law and obligation of the local self-government authority". This is very important to define, Minister, that the obligation of local self-government cannot be equated with their abilities. So the right of all our citizens and citizens is to require maximum work, co-operation and interest to protect all citizens and citizens. This is not about ability, but about the obligation of local self-government and all organs. Furthermore, what I would also suggest by this amendment is to change the words "in the limits of the law". I think that we should replace "in accordance with the law" and that, therefore, it is a much broader concept and broader context of law enforcement, which is the obligation of all regulatory bodies and all bodies working in the interest of our citizens. Thank you. (Bosko Obradović: Replica)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39358	There's no replica. You can do it by amendment. The name Boška Obradovic is not a replica. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The MP Vesna Ivković submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. (Bosko Obradovic: I have the right to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure. You are right, but not to abuse. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39359	Thank you. Honored Presidents, Honored Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members, Article 1. The bill is amended and it reads: "The Law on Local Self-Government of Article 2 is amended and reads – local self-government is the right of citizens to manage public affairs of direct common and general interest for local people, directly and through their freely elected representatives, and is achieved through the authority of local self-government, which, in accordance with the law, regulates jobs and manages public affairs of interest to the local population". The amendment is recasting to specify this legal provision. This, as well as the other amendments submitted by my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, aim to improve the already very good and quality proposed amendments and additions to this law. Amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government highlighted the importance of the participation of citizens and other interested parties in the public debate. The aim of these changes will be to improve the application of the Institute of Direct Democracy and public inclusion. Citizens will have the opportunity to launch an initiative of importance for their environment. It will be enough 5% of the total number of citizens with voting rights to launch a citizens' initiative. It will be included in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget. They'll get a chance to suggest what's to be built on their territory. Finally, everything will be transparent, and there will probably be less criticism at the expense of local self-government authorities, as this law gives the possibility of including the highest public in the process of drafting laws, strategic and other public policies. The conclusion is that citizens, the professional public and the NGO sector, or associations, will have the opportunity to have more impact on local policymaking. The bill offered quality solutions that are in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and therefore commend all praise the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and its team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39360	The word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39361	Thank you. I'm glad that an esteemed SPS colleague has read one important thing - local self-government is managed by citizens through their elected representatives. That's what it's supposed to look like and that's what it looked like in normal countries. I suggest that the SNS put into law that the local self-government is governed by Malovic, Zvonko Veseinović, Zelja and the other beatings, and if that is not true, I ask the question of what is the Monday meeting that Darko Glisic is sitting on? It seems to me that he, Minister Ruzic, is not with you at the ministry. Please correct me, is Darko Glisic from Uba, I have a home number, a member of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, sitting with Mayor Smederev, all the committees and saying that Smederev will no longer be asked about the mayor's office and that in the media of Srederevski, will not be asked about the mayor, will not be asked about the municipal council, but will decide what will be done in the city administration by SNS and he? On the other hand, this man, Darko Glisic, determines where to pave the way for a few times, he leads Mr. Drobrnjak around Serbia and says – asphaltate there, do not pave the way for this, so I ask if he is not a worker of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, if he is, Mr. Ruzic, I apologize, is Darko Glisic perhaps working in a road company with Zoran Drobnjak? Please demystify the citizens of Serbia who is Darko Glisic, what is the function performed and why and who were the citizens of Smederev voted for? Will Mayor Jasna Avramovic continue to perform his post in Smederev, or will he, without the spine, listen? I hope not, not because of her, but because of the rule of law in Serbia, because of the minimum dignity that everyone should show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39362	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39363	Darko Glisic is chairman of the SNS Executive Board. The Serbian Progressive Party is one organised, organised and disciplined party and, of course, it is such that the SNS will wonder what will be done in which municipality in which the citizens trusted the same SNS. What will certainly not be done is that SNS will never ask people, such as Milojic, Sutanovac and others who have ruined what the state of Serbia, what local self-government will do in Smederevo or what will be done in any local self-government in Serbia. What Serbian citizens think of you, they said in the 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017 elections. So, citizens want to be asked in local self-governments by SNS, so to ask themselves, in the end, and Darko Glisic as chairman of the SNS Executive Board, but will no longer be asked about various Milojičići, various Elezovici, various Pajtici, various Sutanovci, various Jesici etc. who have since 2000 completely destroyed the state system, the AP Vojvodina and, of course, the local self-government system in Serbia, including, of course, the City of Belgrade, which was devastated worse than the Germans in four years of their occupation. (Radoslav Milojic: President, please, do you hear this? He said we were worse than the Germans. ) To what extent is propaganda not against the SNS, against the state of Serbia, against the citizens of Serbia, best spoke against the citizens of Belgrade yesterday, when they launched false news that the water in "Belgrade Voda" was polluted and not for drink. They are also doing so by order of their foreign mentors, who want to make it difficult for Serbia at a time when we need to resolve the status of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39364	Thank you, MP. Replica, Radoslav Milojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39365	I don't want to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think you were obliged to give a warning to the previous speaker, who said a sentence that someone broke Belgrade worse than the Germans from 1940 to 1945. It's embarrassing and it honors the previous speaker who has no shame or cheek. On the other hand, I am sorry, Mr. Minister, if you haven't heard this, I will repeat to you, that Aleksandar Martinovic, said in a direct television broadcast, in front of you as Minister of State and Local Self-Government and one of the few people in the government that I know have moral, honor and face and therefore ask that you react to this, regardless of the political differences we have, that Smederev, that Darko Glisic, Malović and the others I mentioned, so please tell me if it is possible that someone who is not from Smedereva, whom the citizens did not choose, who is not in state function, who has nothing to do with the state or local self-government, the head of Parliament group Aleksandar Martinović, said that Branko Malović and Darko Glisic, are managing Smederev? Please tell me by what law, on the basis of which member and in which country in the world is that possible? If you don't believe and you haven't heard, because I've seen you do something else, I demand a stenogram, to confirm what DS is saying, that cities and municipalities are run by SNS criminals, not the presidents of municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39366	You can have your notes. How do you get a stenogram, or were you thinking of notes? (Radoslav Milojic: Notes, yes, that's right. That's not the point. ) The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39367	Mr. Milojicic thinks I should be afraid of my words now, not I'll repeat them. He's a political ignorant and political analphabeta. Nikola Pasic said well – for the people of democracy, for members of the party of discipline. Mr. Milojic, while the citizens of Serbia, while the citizens of Smedereva, while the citizens of Belgrade, only you spread your hands, so you know nothing about politics. You're the only one who knows. You know you're stealing. So, while the citizens of Serbia, while the citizens of Smedereva, while the citizens of Belgrade, are supporting Alexander Vukic and SNS, every local official, city official, republican, regional official, as well as all of us MPs, of course, have the duty and obligation to follow the SNS programme and policy, because that policy has passed citizens' checks in elections and is so everywhere in a democratic and civilized world. You have no country in any official, no matter what rank you are, leading politics on your own beyond the party's running policy and which has won citizens' support in the election. Not to be ashamed of Darko Glisic, Branko Malovic, as you say, Zelje and everyone else, these are the people who every day are committed to the SNS program and politics and I thank them for that and at the same time express my great regret that as president of the parliamentary group I have to sit here all day in Parliament and listen to your nonsense, which I can no longer help these people on the ground and make the SNS even stronger.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39368	Thank you. Time. The word is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39369	President, I once again urge you to courteous SNS speakers, even though I know it's impossible. Of course, we will not go down to their level and speak such words and such ugly names, even to those who deserve it. But I'm glad to be here for one thing. I am pleased that the head of the SNS parliamentary club, Aleksandar Martinovic, admitted that the policy of criminals Zvonko Veseinovic, Zelja and Branko Malovic, is an official SNS policy and that SNS is a criminal organisation. I really don't know what the citizens of Smederev can say about not being run by Jasna Avramovic, who they voted for, but being run by Branko Malovic. I am pleased to hear that, and this is another confirmation that Mr. Martinovic has now said and I am glad that he is consistent, because he said in 17.07.2012 that SNS is a mob and traitor organisation. Now he just kept going in the same spirit and said he was a criminal organization. I respect him, at least because he's consistent and thinks about the SNS as he thought in 2012. Well done, but I'm glad the citizens know that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39370	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39371	He's good at this Kenna, he can cheer a man up, make him laugh at this dreary time when the clouds are out. So, I'll do it again. Thanks again to all the progégés. all those who work day and night on the ground from Sudotica to Bujanovac, and come from the ranks of SNS. They're honest and honest people. These are people who work hard to make the SNS more supportive of Serbia's citizens than it is now. Neither Darko Glisic is a criminal, nor is Branko Malovic a criminal, nor is he, according to Kena, the Zelja mentioned every day by the criminal. This last gentleman I mentioned, our friend and party colleague, a member of the SNS executive board, was arrested in Kosovo and Metohija precisely because he was a member of the SNS and was campaigning for the Serb list in Kosovo and Metohija, thereby protecting the rights and interests of the Serb people. He's a criminal only for the authorities in Pristina. He's a criminal for DS only. For the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and for all others who carry SNS in their hearts, he is someone who fights every day for the programme and politics of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. As for Darko Grujic, before taking office as president of the Executive Board, he was the president of the Ub municipality who won the local elections in 2016 and at the request of Aleksandar Vukic, the president of Ub municipality, in order to take office as chairman of the SNS Executive Board. I say once again, a decent, honest, hardworking man, has nothing to do with crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39372	Thank you. As for the replicas on this subject, we have ended up now following the amendment of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39373	I thank the president. I am pleased that this controversy has led, as now the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have had the opportunity to hear the head of the SNS parliamentary group thanking criminals who have been travelling from the municipality to the municipality in Serbia for six years, harassing not only the candidates of other parties but also the citizens and all those living in those municipalities who dare not vote for SNS, as they are called by the outcasts and the great fighters for better Serbia. That coalman, Zelja, kidnapped two DS activists in Vrbas five years ago, took them to the SNS room where he beat them up. They were both under the age of 20. After one of the beaten activists, not to tell you what humiliations those in the SNS rooms under the picture of Alexander Vukic had experienced there, identified him in Facebook photos, reported his name to the police. After that, five years nothing happened. That only because these great fighters for better Serbia, who kidnap children who work for a campaign for other candidates and beat them up in SNS rooms, have the protection of SNS and the protection of Aleksandr Vukic. So it was clear to us that it was actually Alexander Vukic's policy, that this policy of violence, beatings, bullying, kidnapping, drawing targets at the head of everyone who thinks otherwise, is your policy, and by Mr Martinovic we have just received confirmation of it and if he could repeat it once more and thank these criminals, I think it will be much clearer for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39374	This wasn't exactly by amendment, but, replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39375	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you to try to understand the logic of what Mrs. Jerkov said. So imagine, the Serbian Progressive Party has the need to chase, hunt and beat the DS sympathisers, a party that can't cross the censorship in any of the elections that have been in the last few years. You, Mrs. Jerkov, have barely crossed 2% in the Belgrade elections. So, what's there to beat you up? You're sorry. You should be sorry. You are one of the prominent parties, like you used to be at the time of LJube Davidovic and Milan Grol, and even one of the strong parties during the 1990s, made one dwarf, one cripple, one disabled, who no one will vote for anymore. What's there to beat you and who's more interested in you? You're not here to sit in the O.R. You speak to the state of Serbia in front of international institutions, how can we not give you the right words, and here, you two sit in front of the Democratic Party, you two ladies, it's an honor, but where are your other colleagues? Sasa Paunovic writes that SNS is possessing him there in Paracina with some Zelj, with this, with that. The man wrote on his Twitter account, 27 December 2017 – From the current budget reserve of the Republic of Serbia for Paracino approved 35 million dinars. The highest amount in the last 10 years. And then it doesn't take a few months, a man folds a tab and...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39376	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39377	... says – E, the state of Serbia is suffocating local self-government in Paracino. And he won 35 million dinars from Serbia's current budget reserve in 2017, according to his own recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39378	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39379	Thank you, President. Mr. Martinovic speaks of what we have done to a once respected organization. His happiness was no organization, no political party in which Aleksandar Martinovic was ever, nor was she in which she was now, neither respected nor ever had a chance to be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39380	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39381	Dear President, I can only say that it is an honor to know Zoran Milojevic and that this is the man I made the elections with in Vrbas, who I worked with in 2013 with in the election at KIM and I can say that this is about a decent man. But I also know Danil Bobic from Sirig, of whom Aleksandra Jerkov speaks, and again I will have to convey the message of Daniel Bobic to the Democratic Foreigner, from word to word: "Boyan, please welcome these thieves and tell them not to mention my name anymore. I am neither part of the Democratic Party since the day my signature was falsified in a contest that was called by the province's Secretariat for Labour and Employment, which was led by then Secretary Vasil." These are the words of Danil Bobic, who can be checked, those are the words of Danil Bobic about the counterfeiting of the signatures, published by "Blic" that year. And as for Aleksandra Jerkov, I would only remind you and ask both Mr. Martinovic and the President of the Assembly, to be careful, that Alexandera Jerkov when she attacks she seeks a function. In 2012, Bojan Pajtic told him that Bojan Pajtic sacrificed the interests of the people of Vojvodina for their post in the DS, as he said Bojan Pajtic and DS were responsible for the economic downturn of the people of Vojvodina. Only a few months after that, Miss Jerkov was appointed as Mr. Pitiæ's advisor. So much for who, what and how he talks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39382	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've never been ashamed of myself, I've belonged to two political parties in my life and I'm not ashamed of any of them. I am neither ashamed of the Serbian Radical Party nor ashamed of the Serbian Progressive Party. I am not ashamed of the time when I belonged to the SRS, as the party at the time was one of the main opponents of the regime, which was established on 5 October 2000, nor am I ashamed of the SNS, as a party that succeeded in reforming and reviving Serbia in a political, economic, military-security sense. And as for these famous stories of beatings and beatings, here, that the citizens of Serbia know, on Tuesday, about 18.30 hours in the town of Županjac near Lazarets, at the Ibaric Masteral, the beatings of the Democratic Party beat up Officer Jovic Nikolic, who was otherwise born in 1990 and suffered, as you can see, serious physical injuries. So this is a direct attack on the state. What I want to say is what I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, all of what the Democratic Party is doing these days in parliament, all these propaganda lies about not being good, that it's not for drinking water in the Belgrade water line, attacks on police officers, roadblocks, a campaign being conducted, a statement by Vuk Jeremic that Aleksandar Vukic is organising attacks on Serbs on KIM, that's all, dear citizens, artillery preparation for a general attack on Serbia's state. Because they know that these sad remains of the Serbian opposition cannot defeat Alexander Vukic, they cannot defeat the SNS without outside help. So they joined together, both on the outside and on the inside, to bring the state of Serbia to its knees.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39384	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39385	But believe me, we won't let you do it and you won't see it again in Serbia on October 5th 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39386	The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39387	It is the right of every MP to express the political views of the party to which it belongs, but it is truly amazing that someone like Aleksandra Jerkov is talking about the reputation of political parties. It is widely known that Aleksandra Jerkov, who boasts that she has completed CIA courses, is in fact her role in this parliament and in Serbia at all. Aleksandra Jerkov belonged to the party and herself stood for the most open to separatist ideas, when it comes to the AP Vojvodina. It belongs to the party that says, and it belonged to the previous party who openly advocates the idea that Kosovo, the false state of Kosovo, is the fact that it should be accepted so. Of course, someone earlier said, Mr. Torbica, that you should be careful when Aleksandra Jerkov advocates something, that she must also seek a function, as much as Aleksandra Jerkov is best aware of Mr. Elezovic, formerly head of the circuit board in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39388	The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39389	Of course, on the charges of a convicted war criminal's party, I have no intention of answering and nothing the MPs here say is worth your attention, and some of them are personally looking for a court in The Hague. The fact that the Republic of Serbia does not intend to co-operate with courts that officially admit... (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. President, can you regulate these catastrophic curses or can you not hear? Don't you hear what they're saying to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39390	You've been asked by a Member of the Parliament of Jerkov... Please, let her finish her presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39391	I didn't ask the MPs of the convicted war criminal's party for anything, but I'm telling you that you have a duty to lead the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you think it's okay to pretend you don't hear these things that these people, on the left, tell me, to honor you... (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. )......................................................................................................... And I'm just confirming the words of Alexander Martinovic who said he wasn't ashamed of anything, or what he was doing in the SRS, or what he was doing at the SNS. Perhaps, gentlemen, former radicals should begin to be ashamed of what you used to do, and of what you're doing now, and of those people you used to be with, and of these people you're sitting with right now, and of those people you've been praising all your mouths and putting together praises for being harassing Serbian citizens for six years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39392	I have more replicas, and I have a Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. (Maya Vidinovic: Stop threatening.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39393	What am I threatening? You son of a bitch! You white-world scum! (Maya Vidinovic: Do you hear what he's saying to us? ) Article 107. Everything I said, I stand behind every word I say. The biggest scum in Serbia has just appeared, those who speak for Vojislav Seselj that he is a war criminal. It's scum! Since you are not ashamed that a man who has been incarcerated for 12 years, disgracefully sentenced to 10 years for the Croats, so that you, along with the Croatian authorities, would declare him a war criminal... Is this the preparation of the Vojvodina to tomorrow accuse the state of Serbia of deliberately evicting Croatian animals from Vojvodina? Is that preparation? What don't you say? It does not differ at all from the words spoken by the Prime Minister of Croatia, and you, as chairman, allow someone here to make the most serious accusations about Vojislav Seselj and the SRS. Vojislav Seselj is neither accused nor convicted, nor is he a war criminal, so you must take care of it. As for his very role on the political scene, you will be, scum, remembered by sitting with Vojislav Seselj in parliament. You will not be remembered for anything else, because you are a marginal figure, irrelevant to political life in Serbia. (Maya Vidinović: Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39394	Who reported in to the Rules of Procedure? I must first give my word to the Rules of Procedure, and then the replicas will certainly go to Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Martinovic. Bosko Obradovic first reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then you, Mrs. Vidinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39395	The Honorable Chairman, I think he's a broken member of the 27th. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I didn't notice that you took care of it, because you have double arches when it comes to MPs from the opposition's ranks compared to MPs from the ranks of power. So, any insult, fabrication, slander, lie at the expense of the opposition MPs, in your opinion, is allowed and free to do so by representatives of the government, and on the other hand, when opposition representatives speak critically about the current government and by the name and last name call those responsible for certain problems and damages in this country, then we get warnings and we get punished for doing our basic work, which is to criticise the government. All I'm asking is for that basic archaic to come back, so they don't become double standards. So if we can speak freely, let us speak freely. If we can't, tell the public that we in the opposition can't talk critically about power, that power can insult us, attack, invent, slander or whatever. I'm just asking you to establish that order at the session, because this is how it turns out that practically anything can be said against the opposition's representatives. I'll make an example of myself. It's been repeating here for months that I've been working in the Chacha library in my day. I guess that's from the angle of the SNS as much as possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39396	No one alive has mentioned the Chacha library now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39397	You weren't here, you weren't running the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39398	You're talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39399	Yes, to you. You weren't here. You can't know what happened during the session when you weren't here. Why is it from the angle of SNS an insult to work in the city library.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39400	No, but what you're talking about right now, I don't understand anything. I haven't said one word since the debate started. Everyone's saying, everyone's telling everyone what they've got, so you're wrong. I don't have any double arches. I don't have any arches today. Tell each other what you want. When someone on this side allows himself to offend one of the MPs, he must bear with his opinion, that is, insults on the other hand, or cut both sides. Here, I'll take Bosko Obradovic as a consultant, or we'll let everyone or we'll cut everything. Is that right? We made a deal. Let's move on. The word is made by the MP Maja Vidinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39401	Madam President, you have severely violated the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed here and we are very aware that you have heard very well that in the most brutal way, using the worst possible threats, curses and insults by a party of convicted war criminals sent to my fellow Members, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov... That's what you heard, that's what you confirm, that's what you allow, that's what you allow, and that's how you stand behind the policy of the party where you were... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. I don't know if you're hearing what's being said and what's being referred to to the MPs of the DS. I can see that you hear and by silence you confirm such a thing. If any SNS has proved at this session, it is, by one, what Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic said, that they are proud of the Zelj and the criminals that the prosecution has been seeking for more than four years for the attacks, kidnapping and beating up of activists and, two, that you are behind the policy, which at this time in 2018, headed by a war criminal, threatens the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What does the citizens of Serbia, who are following this, expect when you allow and do not react.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39402	In the end, I'll get beat up by all the messengers who speak. I guess I'll go through the worst, but okay, that's my part. It's not a problem. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39403	You will not, Mrs Gojkovic, have the protection of the right MPs in this National Assembly who represent the interests of Serbian citizens here, unlike some others who represent the interests of Ustasha from Croatia, so this friend of Pernar also intervened to protect his friend in the same way. So Alexandra Jerkov said that the MPs of the SRS were throwing something at her. She didn't dare say what. I'm going to have to explain what it really means to her that the MPs of the SRS are getting to her. Before that, for the sake of the public of Serbia, of course, Vojislav Seselj is not a war criminal. The verdict that Vojislav Seselj received in The Hague does not say and does not say anywhere that he committed any war crimes. It is in the interest of the enemies of Serbia to push for the verdict that Vojislav Seselj was convicted of alleged persecution from Krtkovci just so that one day they could use it when they are ordered to go even more seriously to break the state of Serbia, and they are certainly more serious in the business. In our people, it is common for anyone who is an opponent of the Serbian state and of Serbian national interests to say she is a Ustasha, to act as a Ustasha. For someone who does this for money CIA, Croatian or I don't know what the usual thing is to say – a prostitute and from there it's tossing SRS MPs Aleksandri Jerkov that she's a Ustasha prostitute...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39404	MPs, please, let's break this way of communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39405	I'm done. When it comes to Mr Elezovic, it's some other business.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39406	Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first of all, I should have done this at the beginning, to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Muslim religion to congratulate the great holiday of Ramadan Bajram, that God gives happiness and prosperity to them and their families and to continue to live in peace in one country that we have, which is the state of Serbia. As for these attacks coming from the DS ranks, well, here I am, all day long, if I don't have to... (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )......................................................................................................... Stop talking about it, and you can yell for free. So, what the DS MPs say, they're saying by assignment. The task is that all SNS activists are led by Alexander Vukic's thieves and criminals... . (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. )......................................................................................................... According to the task, the water in Belgrade's water supply is unhealthy for drinking... (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. )......................................................................................................... By task Vuk Jeremic says Aleksandar Vukic organizes attacks on Serbs on KIM... (Balsa Bozovic: That's true. )......................................................................................................... The task is led by the worst possible campaign against the state of Serbia, falsified statistics, worst possible untruths and insults at the expense of SNS MPs, Serbian Prime Ministers, President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, etc. And all of this, I repeat once again, is artillery preparation for a general attack not against Alexander Vukic, not on the SNS, but on the state of Serbia before the moment that it should be re-...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39408	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39409	(Balsa Bozovic throws. )......................................................................................................... You just yell. No one's afraid of you. When negotiations with Pristina should be renewed and when we should finally all join in solving the KIM problem together. Serbia needs to be brought...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39410	Thank you. (Sendants of the DS get it. Members of Parliament, please, we have been speaking for almost an hour past the amendment to Article 1. There were more than 20 replicas. I think it's time to move on. (Maya Vidinovic, Balsa Bozovic: The head of the parliamentary group reported. ) The National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. No yelling, no bullying. (Balsa Bozovic: The head of the parliamentary group reported. You are not authorized now, but Mrs. Jerkov. Mirjana Dragaš, please. Maja Vidinović throws. () Read The Rules of Procedure has a terrible lot to do with it, it has a terrible lot to do with it. (Balsa Bozovic: Read you.) Mirjana Dragaš.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39411	Thank you. Dear President, I really thank you for making this effort to bring us back today to discuss the agenda and the law that lies ahead. At the same time, I feel that the Assembly is the best, most efficient one when it talks about laws, which is its basic task. It is best to talk about laws concerning citizens and their lives, and it is best for citizens to talk about their direct life problems and try together with the republican authorities and other authorities to solve them in accordance with their needs and at least to know how political parties are fighting each other and to turn themselves away from the basic things they are interested in. When it comes to today's law, I think it is useful for the amendment that I have submitted to improve its definition in that part of the clarification of the role and everything that this law has provided and that Minister Branko Ružić and his associates here presented to us in the opening statement, I believe that this Article 1 of the Law could also be corrected by making it directly into the law, i.e. with the introduction of concepts that point even more specifically to direct and through the freely expressed representatives of citizens managing public affairs that are in their interest in the local community. In this regard, I also submitted the amendment, believing that this could only be a contribution to the clarification, but at the very beginning of the law to the fundamental objective that is later also explained in other elements. At the same time, I believe that the impact on improving living conditions and the immediate environment is something that this law allows, and that citizens themselves in their local self-government and local communities can directly influence and lead to a general improvement. The general orientation of the law that goes in terms of adapting to conditions and the needs of citizens' lives is something that improves in general this segment of social life and I believe that a special return to the role of local communities is of particular interest to citizens. We, the local communities that we once had, in some period of view of them as a socialist, or completely destroyed or demoted, and completely demoted it in the eyes of the citizens and the functions that they have. Unfortunately, this has proved to be an extremely bad and entirely new orientation of a more precise one, which affirms the role of the local community that turns citizens' interests towards defining local issues and requires senior authorities to address them accordingly, is something that should certainly be welcomed in the orientation of this law. The improvement of the work of local self-government in this law is clearly defined, it is clear, and it is good, the obligation of jurisdiction described above, not the tax-based definition of the obligations that local self-government has, because in areas covered by it is certainly doing more jobs than in the previous law has been defined and, in that sense, the local community itself and the direct administration of citizens and their role and local communities make up one consortium of entities that are most interested in certain competences, certain tasks, in which interest all of them should be engaged. Of course, a lot of measures have been taken so far to improve working conditions in local communities and to make them faster, better and more efficient for the benefit of citizens, and here I will highlight the electronic administration, the special programs that appear. Of course, according to this and in accordance with the needs and policies that are being achieved, it must monitor this local self-government and budget, which, together with the local community and the republican government, together should take account. In any case, I think this amendment could have played its part in the clarification in this Article 1. All other elements of the law, I think, go in the direction of clarifying and giving greater rights and obligations to local communities and their rounded powers. Our parliamentary group, as well as I, will support the law and measures proposed at the same time as the overall orientation to address all needs of the Serbia state's harmonisation with compliance with European laws, not for Europe's sake, but for Serbia itself and for the community's arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39412	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39413	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government to which Article 1 shall apply. The draft law changes and reads – the Law on Local Self-Government Article 2 is amended and reads – local self-government is the right of citizens to direct and through the free-selected representatives manage public businesses from direct, common and general interest in local community and local population, as well as the law and the ability of local self-government authorities to regulate and manage public affairs which are in their jurisdiction and of interest to the local population. The objective of the amendment that I have submitted is that Article 1 clearly and precisely formulate the subject matter of the law. I believe that by adopting this amendment, it would be in the focus of Article 1 that citizens who are receiving a legal basis for direct inclusion in the planning and implementation of development policies related to their local communities would be found. This is otherwise an extremely important legal provision that provides that citizens make decisions on how and how investment funds from their local budgets will be spent, e.g. what will be built, how and how infrastructure and other problems will be solved, i.e. It is citizens who will make decisions on priorities and investment dynamics in joint local projects. Otherwise, this is a good practice that has been established in certain cities and municipalities, and by adopting this law it will become a commitment to all local self-government. Therefore, I think it would be good and justified and comprehensive that, given the new role of citizens, their new rights, this role of rights and the role of creating local development and local policies, our citizens formulate clearly and precisely with Article 1 of this law, which is otherwise the subject of the law. I therefore believe that the amendment that I have submitted is comprehensive and that in the spirit of the legal solutions that we have discussed in the previous days, which we will discuss in the coming days, when amendments to the proposed legislative solutions are discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39414	Miroslav Aleksic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39415	I thank the president. I support this amendment. Mr. Minister, I was in the debate in principle, when I spoke about the law and put out a lot of things and opinions, asking countless questions and, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to any of my only questions, or any suggestion, so I hope at least now I get some answers. So, I appreciate your efforts and your desire and your initiative to create a system within the work of local self-government in Serbia, but I absolutely doubt it is possible for one ministry to do so, unless there is no desire and support from the government, from the Republic and the President himself. As far as my position is concerned, this law that has changed and which should have changed much earlier will not yield a result, because the policy of this government exceeds the desire to establish a system of institutions in Serbia and that everyone adheres to the law. The laws, unfortunately, apply only to those who are not in power and to ordinary citizens in Serbia. So, as far as specific things are concerned, you've defined the relationship between local self-government and local communities. Last time I told you that you would not solve and have functional local communities until you provided their financial independence, therefore, that part of the property tax is given to local communities that they themselves could be channelled from their territories where they estimate that they are priorities. On the other hand, the self-help and way of seducing self-deportation in local communities is such that it is almost impossible to seduce him because it is necessary to go to the vote and more than half of the people living in one environment, you know very well. So, local communities are a dead letter on paper without money and without clearly defined financial competences. As for the other things I've been talking about, it's about funding units of local self-government. I told you that municipalities and cities in the past six years have been completely financially devastated, completely, because year by year, they reduce the incomes of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and various other regulations, and on the other hand, as money is reduced, the current budget reserve from which the finance minister can in his personal opinion, the desire to give money to those cities and municipalities he considers to be alike. It is not the minister's system, it is only centralisation of the Serbian state and the possibility of political blackmailing representatives of local self-government units, whether they come from a ruling coalition at a republican level or are opposition. The opposition are particularly harassed and will be discussed in Turkey on 28th, and this will be done by the Council of Europe, and as far as these ruling ones are concerned, you discipline them with money. Then, these local sheriffs we hear about every day, start with Bruce, Kragujevac, Sremski Karlovci, Frog, New Blacks, Subotics, etc. They're actually sheriffs because someone gives them the opportunity to be sheriffs or if they don't follow the rules they're being replaced, but you're replacing them with Minister Ruzic, which should be. As the minister responsible for local self-government, they are already being replaced by a certain Zelja, an informal political centre of SNS power within municipalities and cities around Serbia. So we have a situation in Blac where the SNS was in power, where the president dared not resign when asked for it, where the council members made a group of citizens, in two days he left Zelja from house to house, with a message that SNS President Aleksandar Vukic told him to solve the situation in Blac. They all came back in two days because he has probably effective methods, he resigned and now you have one situation that's unsolved. On the other hand, Mr. Ruzic, you have a situation in the Vladimirs I asked you about. Your predecessor, today's prime minister, Mrs Brnabic, answered my parliamentary question that in the municipality of Vladimirci because of the problem with the two congregations, the session held, the second, where the new president of the assembly was elected, is valid. And so did you, as minister of the present, of that resor. In practice, the situation is completely different. There's an old president of the Assembly in power and the same president. So are the laws the same for everyone or do we have some territory that we keep as ghettos, where you just don't have jurisdiction? That's why I've proposed and I suggest to you, and by amendment, I suggest that you here as a competent resolution minister, instead of a provision that you can disband some authority in a local self-government unit or a congregation, that you have to do so, if there are reasons why, so that we don't have these local sheriffs and we don't have these cases that I'm talking to you about. Also, you have three reasons why you can introduce temporary measures into the units of local self-government, and I think the Vladimirs are an example for you to have another one. I'm talking about introducing and establishing a system. Furthermore, when we talk about employees of local self-government units, when we talk about their incomes, unfortunately, the units of local self-government were all these years the only ones who had restrictive regulations in terms of the application of the Employment Prohibition Act. You have absolutely the least employees there, 116,000, 133 public enterprises and 330 governments, ministries, various agencies etc. So, you as someone who should represent the interests of local self-government units in the government, as minister in charge of all municipalities and cities in Serbia, must fight a little for their rights as well. So it's not enough when you say it in the law -- we'll allow the deputy president of the assembly to be at full-time work. It's not a solution, it's another political calming of someone who's building a local government. You have cities and municipalities that don't get consent to new employment. By chance, I was one of them. In 2012, we had 186 employees in the municipality of Trstenik, 2016 we had 161. I only got one consent in four years. It's not a better situation now, and now they've won, I think, over the past two years, another one. You don't have people who can do the job. The same goes for wages. People working in local self-government units compared to those working in state agencies, public enterprises, etc. I'm not talking about the journals and all the other stuff. When we talk about funding, as far as funding is concerned, it's a tragedy when you look at how the share of the distribution of funds of the central level of government and the local one is moving. Since 2012, 17.7% of Serbia's total funds have ended locally. Today, Minister Ruzic, it's over 10%. So we have a constant trend of decline, and we're talking about some kind of decentralisation, or you're talking. You are talking about units of local self-government, the very word says – local self-government. There are no local self-governments, ministers, until you have no financial independence and until jurisdiction is followed and authority by units of local self-government. It doesn't happen that way, in practice it doesn't happen that way. I want you to do what you are in this flyer, which is very good and who I once commended, to do all this because units of local self-government and how they have to do with how they live in a local environment, at least in terms of the efficiency of units of local self-government. But that's not going to happen if we continue this kind of centralization. If the government does not have the sense to understand what cities and municipalities should do, they should indeed be units of local self-government and that local communities should exist, both in the rural area, so that they exist in cities and be obliged to form local communities and to provide them with funding. In this way you will reach every citizen and help him to exercise his rights in an efficient way, as is happening in some countries where there is a serious system. So without a system, we can't expect you to solve the problems of neither the citizens, nor the units of local self-government, especially when we're talking about finance. There's a key problem here. When you solve system finance, I believe that you do not support that as Santa Claus you can share a minister of finance with someone as it was a case, here, let's say, in 2016 Nis 260 million, Kragujevac 220, Novi Sad 190, Jagodina 130, Zajcara 115, and 380 Zajecaru, Čačka etc., without any criteria. So it's enough to send a request and say – we don't have enough funds for liquid liquidity, we ask the government to give us some money, and then someone makes a decision as much as anyone will give to whom. It's not a system, it's a demonstration of force, power and the creation of subjects and units of local self-government, people representing and leading cities and municipalities today, especially because most of them are led by representatives representing the republican government. Let the people, or work alone, or those who are incompetent, so do not give them money. Why are you giving Nisha a greater deficit than the republican deficit, according to the president of the state, giving money? Change the mayor, introduce temporary measures. Those who are in charge, who have no capacity to do the job, so it is you who need to impose temporary measures on them, so let someone who knows better to have the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39416	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39417	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, funding local self-government is a very interesting thing, and even more interesting when someone in a strange way interprets what local self-government is, especially the MPs of the former regime. There's always a controversy here that someone stole something from local self-government. Local self-governments have their original incomes and no one has entered them. They stayed on the level they were ten years ago, maybe even more. You have confidential arrivals. These are the revenues that the Republic of Serbia is making, but it allows a part of these trusted revenues to be obtained by local self-government. In 2011, precisely because of the upcoming local elections, the former regime is passing an epochal law that increases the amount of trusted revenues received by local self-government. Now, it is impossible for an MP of the former regime, not one I have heard, to say that these trusted revenues have until then been financed by the pensions of Serbian citizens. Now, that's true. So the state continued to pay even more to ensure the functioning of the pension system and the health care system. Now, that these funds and local self-government led by members of the former regime really used to develop infrastructure, to improve the business environment in local self-government, to attract investors to either foreign or domestic, they spent that money on hiring party activists to run their 2012 campaign and they won't say that. Now, one of the reasons was that the costs incurred by local self-government are covered by that money that filled the Pension Fund and most of all for energy: electricity, gas and lube. In 2012, we found the following situation by local self-government, that electricity, gas and lubricating were charged by citizens of Serbia, citizens of these local self-governments, but that obligations to suppliers for the profession, gas and mule were never paid during the former regime. So, who's taken pensions from Serbian citizens now? Who now took the money of citizens and employees in local administrations? Are those the ones who shed crocodile tears for the situation they've led to? Why don't they ask their party colleagues why the money has to be transferred to Kragujevac? It wasn't the current leadership that made those debts, but it was them that stole the pensions of Serbian citizens, which they stole from Serbia's health system. The same situation is in Nis, the same situation in Smederjevska Palanca. And, now, they say -- that's the minister's discretionary right. It's not the minister's discretionary right, it's the trouble to ensure the normal functioning of the local self-government that they've swept and robbed. They had the money of Serbian citizens, the Republic of Serbia. So the MPs gave them the right to have money, but how? Certainly not to hire party colleagues, certainly not not to pay their debts and certainly not to buy the most expensive cars, which they did and should be ashamed of. It's even more embarrassing that it didn't work, and that crime won't be admitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39418	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. He's not here. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39419	The Honorable Chairman, actually the President, Mr Minister and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about a member defining the issues and responsibilities defined in the statutes of local self-government and local self-government units. The proposal is to replace the words - the designated authorities authorised to initiate proceedings before a constitutional or administrative court with words - the way in which the authority authorised to initiate proceedings before a constitutional or administrative court is designated. In fact, here in this position such a formulation, this word – a way, is often used, so the statute regulates particularly the rights and duties of units of local self-government and the way they are realized. It is then said that a way of managing citizens' affairs is defined from the authority of local self-government units. In my opinion, this should also be reformed in the way in which the authority authorised to initiate proceedings before a constitutional, or administrative court should be designated. Of course, this is also about a finesse that doesn't essentially change what's defined by this article and is not essential. But I would take advantage of the opportunity to point out the importance of what is the functioning of local self-government and the relationship with the Ministry of State and local self-government and their interactions that take place on a daily basis and is very important. In that sense, I think on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can express my appreciation for this ministry headed by Minister Ruzic, of course, and for his associates. For example, in the last two, three months, they were present in about 50 local self-government on various issues and with various activities from their portfolio. This presence of representatives and ministers in local self-government is very important, because people in local self-government actually want one such closeness and want one such contact in which what they have drawn is also important and how important this support comes from the ministries. In that sense, I would also like to thank Minister Ruzic for what was my request that the minister and his associates, with Kasalovic, State Secretary, visit a very poor municipality such as Zaguvica. For them, it is a really big event, which later ended with the help provided by the Ministry's Support and Development Fund. Of course I am grateful that the minister was also on the day of Petrovac Municipality at Mlava and I think we will continue this co-operation, of course. I am very pleased that immediately the government reacted to this elemental disaster, i.e. the elemental disasters that have taken place in many municipalities and cities in Serbia, that a co-ordination body that will deal with it has been established, but I point to what happened today and tonight in the municipality of Petrovac on Mlavi, where the situation is very, very alarming, where the dam of a lake has been breached over the river Busur. This water fell to the city, along the way flooded many villages, etc. I contacted the District Center for Essential Accidents to send out the pumps and whatever it takes, but of course that's not enough. I'd like to ask, Mr. Minister, that you, too, from your place, make a call to the Republic Staff for the elemental disasters and that everyone in charge be remedied as soon as possible, because it's really very difficult in the Petrovic municipality of Mlava. Of course, when I talk about Petrovac, I don't just mean Petrovic, I mean the other local self-governments that have hit this big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39420	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39421	Thank you, President. When I spoke for a moment, apparently some of them didn't understand me. I'll remind them that today, in 2018, we came to power by SNS even six years ago. I was talking about how incomes have been distributed to local self-government units for the last six years. When I said that the total amount of income that goes to local self-government units is slightly over 10%, it should be clear to everyone when they look at the amount of countries in the European Union. The average is that over 30% of total income ends in the budgets of local self-government units, even up to 50% in some countries. So then we can talk about local self-government units. As far as debts are concerned, who did what, who paid what, who bought cars, and even today, new cars are being bought, and today, party staff are being hired everywhere, perhaps more than ever, still employment consent is being obtained only for those who are similar and who are on the political line, and doctors and teachers and employees in public institutions have to show their party membership to the ruling parties in order to get a job, and we say that it was like until 2012, everything has been different since 2012. Well, it's not. It's not. You said it would be different, but it's all the same. I'm talking about finance the most, because it's a key problem. Here, a colleague has now mentioned the disasters of the elementals that occurred both yesterday and the previous few days. They're catastrophic. Local self-government units should also participate in the anti-building protection system because the state is not providing enough funds. Well, they say -- buy anti-building missiles from local budgets, although it is not legally defined to operate units of local self-government. What's the council president gonna do? To say, well, I won't buy or have to spend money on it, even though it shouldn't be spent. Well, yeah, they'll buy every responsible president of the county. In Triestenik of 19 anti-urban stations, 10 does not work because it pays the state's anti-urban shooters 4,000 dinars. For that money, no one's gonna be on duty 24 hours a day, six months, you know, not to talk about buying a rocket. These are some responsibilities that are not even legally entrusted to local self-government units, and they are given as hot potatoes to deal with. That's what I'm talking about. It's that system that doesn't work. That's why I expect you to fight for local self-government, and you will also fight for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39422	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39423	Dear President, I'm advertising a 107 member who speaks of Parliament's dignity. Namely, with what moral credibility does the previous speaker speak of local self-government, when the self-government he led was left behind in a 700 million dinar dubiosis? With what moral credibility does he speak of a transfer that should take place towards local self-government, when he did not pay on the basis of the transfer, regularly reconciled during that period of commitment to the city's energy needs above all? Therefore, the other large obligations of the directorate towards the companies that supplied the mule, etc. I would really be very happy today to talk here and about criminal provisions in the law, that any person who accesss the budget in this way and thus leaves the budget of local self-government in dubiosis and criminally responds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39424	Minister Ruzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39425	Not to be vague, of course, that finance and at all funding units of local self-government are a very valuable segment of the operation of these local self-governments in general, but we must also be realistic in something called knowing an earlier period, the way of functioning, the non-domestic relationship to certain local self-governments, in some cases, it was, of course, different. Of course there are criteria when determining the funds from the current budget reserve, it's not the font's wish. Some funds are, of course, used to address some of the needs that have been inherited, not as an excuse, but as a real situation in which the Serbian government finds itself when such demands occur. Certainly, the criteria are not political. You mentioned here and this funding problem, about the alleged reduction of those funds, etc. If we go into some deeper topic about how to implement demetropolisation, decentralisation, and finally, some kind of regionalisation, I think that this government has, since 2012, done a lot to attract investors, to open new jobs, to practically, the point of raking, e.g. in southern Serbia located in Nis, and then you see that all the districts, such as Toplico, Jablanička, Pcinjski, Zaječarski, Pirotski, etc., are gravitating exactly Nis, are no longer going up. This is done of course, and will be done both in eastern and western Serbia, Vojvodina is already known, in many segments more developed. So, the Serbian government has very studioy access to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39426	Time, Minister. But finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39427	Thank you. I got out of here a long time ago, so I forgot I had no more time. In any case, the format of the funds that municipalities have are fixed, revenues for trusted jobs, transfers, and original revenues. In order not to take up time and violate the Rules of Procedure, I may, in some later reporting, address this matter to clarify some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39428	Veroljub Arsic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39429	Yeah, according to the amendment. It seems to me, President, that it is not my fellow MPs from the former regime that accept responsibility for what they did while running certain local self-government. That's very sad, but they're MPs. Here, one question I would like to ask – How much did the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, agree on the duties of Serbiagas, which was covered by unpaid and charged gas bills by local self-government, which were then headed by representatives of the former regime? It's just that one question, to see how much damage they've done not only to their local self-government, but also to the state. That story, and those crocodile tears, as far as the state stands out for local self-government, are the mixing of grandmothers and frogs. So you need to take it to know exactly what the original incomes of local self-government in those countries are, and how many revenues that are trusted and how much funds are transferred. But they know it, they won't say it at all. They will always show the situation, that for the damage they have done to the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, it is someone else's fault. In our people, one bird tends to plant its eggs in another bird's nest, they call it a coward, I don't know which other metaphor to use. So, once they accept responsibility. When he accepts some responsibility, he knows, admits he's made a mistake, and maybe he won't make it again. Avoiding accepting a mistake is nothing but a chance to do the same again, which is to harm the entire Republic of Serbia. How serious is this damage, here, I'm going to give an example, the only local self-government in the world, the only local self-government in the world, the Smederjevska Palanka, so that it can get electricity for water and sewerage to provide citizens with water, pay its obligations through UPPR. That means he's in bankruptcy, people, so far they've brought their local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39430	Michaelo Jokic, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39431	I want to say something for the citizens, so that these transfer funds don't go out of control. So, politically, rather than having clear criteria for sharing transfer funds. I'll list some criteria, say, population, area, number of primary education students, number of elementary education facilities, number of secondary education students, number of secondary education facilities, number of children, etc. So there are clear criteria on which transfer funds are distributed. In addition, there are compensatory transfer funds, where this equation is done, and there's a third kind, they're transfers for unification. So pure math. It has nothing to do with politics, and it's all in the function of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39432	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39433	By amendment. No matter what this is now, perhaps less attractive than when it's decrepit here, I think it's an important topic, and we really need to pay attention to it, at least half the time it spends on these political ones, if they're political, or I don't know, bickering, and most often insults. So, the question of local self-government, when this amendment debate looks like it, I think that there is a colleague, Miroslav, who asked very correctly, and my colleague Arsic, for a reason, here and now, has also been a colleague, Jokic, as well as a minister. Let's talk about it a little bit, although nobody's likely to get any big political points and attention. What's going on, let's just see what it's all about. For any reason, honest or less honest, some MPs feel that local self-government is not going well, and that it has been denied in recent years, during the term of office, that they have been denied for a good part of the funds. There are very strong arguments for that. On two occasions, therefore, not once, on two occasions, this National Assembly, not in this assembly, but since 2012, has actually reduced the percentage of funds belonging to local self-government, under different, more or less, good excuses. The main argument is, now, that fellow Arsic, I deliberately mention him, I don't mind having him answer and replicating, if he has a need, if not, must not, therefore, be partly spoken, and partly unspeakable reason for it, and he publicly, more, less, said him, is that local self-government often wasted that money, spent, paid, or bought, I don't know, cars, left, right, spent, one way or the other. That must have been it. But now it's my point, and why am I answering, and that's also a question for the minister, but also for colleagues from the ruling majority, if that's how it is, if it's changed, by the will of the citizens, the changed mood and the changed state and power in practically 95, 98% of the local self-government, the people who have the trust of the ruling party, why now continue to hold that mistrust, why are citizens living in that local self-government, if some previous government, or some previous authorities, if they haven't done well? I think, and I'd say that that's the essence, and it's going to come up with one of my questions for Mr. Secretary, and I think, despite this non-purpose spending that was, somewhere more, somewhere less, somewhere like you say, somewhere different, maybe not so drastic, but that the main motive, however, was that we wanted to attract as much money in the center, in the republican register, that it would sooner be a better balance, so that we could say how the deficit goes down and how the government has results. That makes sense. But the collateral damage to this action, these economic balances, these results, which the government has been boasting about for several years, is actually collateral damage, and I would have paid for local self-government, which are actually reduced funds. It must have been spent on covering the debts made by the former, but I say again, dear colleagues, for more than half a decade, this government, or those former ones, are not in power. In this light, given that it has been as many years, as it has been, the state register and state finances reportedly have been stabilised, I simply ask Mr. Ruzic, or the Minister of Resoric – whether he and his colleagues, that they have acquired conditions, because it could be considered that now, here, that would be a great point, by the way, be told to you, for some future local elections, to ask for an increase, or a part of the money that was not this kind of transferable, not that I appreciate that it is not quite obvious, there are, of course, criteria, but, as we know, these criteria can somehow stretch out. So, to simply increase the percentage that belongs, or return part of that percentage of those funds belonging to local self-government based on transfer funds. So, if there's an idea, if he thinks it's a good idea, I think it would be, and by the way, it's free advice, before this local election, it would certainly echo well in your electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39434	Thank you. Replica, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39435	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, to clear up, there's a legal way, and it's used, on transfer funds that are being deployed to cities and municipalities, and to clear that up. Another thing, as if avoiding the fact that they say the 2011 increase was based on a larger inflow of funds on taxes, on profits, on health insurance and pension-inhabited insurance. The fact that it belonged to the Republic and to pension and health insurance funds has been transferred to local self-government. Now we can talk about whether we should return and that is already another topic and another discussion, but we also have to accept the fact that the Republic of Serbia has met the obligations of local self-government for their established and established obligations. That's why that part of the income was returned to the Republic, that she might have it, that she might settle those obligations. So it's nothing else. The 2011 law was only designed for local self-government to pump as much money as possible, so that in 2012 they would have an election campaign. They didn't even know they were using it, and, imagine, they want to run the country. I wish they had never reached the authorities, because the damage they've done in four years of absolute power, and 12 years more or less of government, is so much that it takes decades to correct it. You can imagine, in 2012, a real sector on its knees that fills the budget of local self-government and republican, on its knees since the growth of course, euro and green interest in banks?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39436	The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39437	Thank you, President. So, exactly on the trail of what counterpart Arsic said, and colleagues, or MPs Vukadinovic, Alexic asked, as I said, we have the incomes of entrusted businesses that local self-governments are carrying out, we have the original incomes, we have transfers. In 2016, if I am not mistaken, two or three provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government have been amended. Otherwise, it's a matter of the Ministry of Finance. It remains to be done in the field of finding new formulas for, practically, transfers to single local self-governments and that this legislative proposal is regulated in a comprehensive way and will certainly be handled. Folkly speaking, it's very important how much resources you have when you're talking about simply identifying funds in that transfer structure, I'm still saying really very qualified that there are no penalties for any unit of local self-government. You said yourself, if you're already looking at that political criterion, 98% of the municipalities, so the ruling coalitions are the ones that correspond with the ruling coalition at the level of the Republic. Someone mentioned Istanbul here and some story about these injustices. Thirty-five million funds from that famous, mystic current budget reserve went right into the Paracino municipality, 18 were employed indefinitely, 35 for the previous two years on a set, and I don't see what kind of injustice it seems to any unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39438	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39439	Thank you, President. So when I talk about responsibility, I've been waiting six years for someone to finally carry that burden and that burden of responsibility. Six, you're already in power for seven years. Here, start with me first. All that this gentleman through the breach of the Rules of Procedure wanted to say about me, to demean my work as the president of the municipality, let it not be false here to discredit me in any way. Let's get him off of me first. Here, I invite you, get away from me, and the Law on the Origin of Property, adopt, get away from me, and what I did in the community, whether I was paying someone something and whether I had an abuse, whatever, go ahead. Here, I say, I'll take that responsibility first, but let the others go, those of you who have been in office since 2012, 2014 or 2016. Let them also be held accountable, once and for all, to submit to the citizens the accounts. The key thing in the state of Serbia is that there is no responsibility, political, whatever you want institutional. It's not because it's good-looking to talk about, to point at someone with a finger – this one's in charge, this one's done, this one, this one, that one. In the heat of political struggle, that's not the point. Come on, let the institutions do their job and I'll tell you again, start with me first. When we talk about funding units of local self-government and the means of distribution, I agree that there should be criteria, but these criteria are not at this point defining the allocation of funds. Key criteria for the allocation of funds and how many units of local self-government are in the dubiosis, how many holes are in the budget and what should be financed. Usually those who are responsible, and there are, regardless of whether the opposition, whether they are from the ruling structures, there are serious presidents of the municipality and mayors, those who are responsible, serious, domestically available by means, they are punished because they say – so they do not need funds, they do not owe, they are not in charge, they do not settle their obligations, and then they do not need it to be given, and those who do not know it, we worship them from the budget. That's the key to the problem. Furthermore, when we talk about, I don't know, pensions are the reason or whatever, the global economic crisis, the reason to take away some of the funds from cities and municipalities, so it's just about setting priorities. So, each government determines its priorities. So you've shown that you're not the priority unit of local self-government, that your top priorities are singing fountains, masts, gondolas, unreformed public enterprises. I hear stories here about "Serbiagas", about EPS and so on. They spend the money of all Serbian citizens. So you're subtracting from the pensioners, from the soldiers, from the professors, from the farmers, from all the people. You're subtracting from the local self-government units and you're pushing all that money into the government's register so you can manage them. So it's about priorities. So the first word is responsibility, second priorities. If the state believes it should lead a policy of decentralisation, to give greater authority at the depth of the government, and less at the central level, it will very easily do so. So it's a matter of politics and decision-making. There's enough money, but it's a question of how and how the government wants to spend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39440	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39441	Just one question - group time? President, do we have group time? Thank you. I'm glad that the previous speaker, Arsic, mentioned who did what and who for what and who owed the citizens of Serbia and one amazing sentence, an MP who said the government of the DS was giving more money to local self-government, and I guess that's bad, and the SNS government took that money away from them, and that's probably good? I can't imagine it, and no one with common sense can possibly understand it. You, dear friends, have taken away the citizens and citizens of Serbia 50 billion dinars only through local self-government. You took away their salaries. You took and kidnapped, for which you will criminally answer, pensions because pensions are acquired right. You've cut the logs to both soldiers and cops. Anything you could have taken, you took. You reduced the subsidies for agriculture, which were 12,000 dinars and you reduced them to 4,000 dinars. In addition, on our 12000 dinar subsidy, the euro was 80 and the price of oil is 80 dinars per litre, and now the price of oil is 160 dinars per litre, and the price of the euro is 118 dinars. You have ruined farmers and your policy towards farmers and agriculture in general is that none of you from the SNS today mentioned areas that have been destroyed, and Požeg, and the City of Užice, and Kosjerić and Smederjevska Palanka and the Great Plan. In Smederjevska Palanca alone, 1,000 people lost their homes, lost their roof over their heads. Four thousand hectares of farmland were destroyed only in the Smederjevska Palanca. School, kindergarten, church is damaged, and I can think of it in other municipalities. You don't care about that. Why? Because you've eaten your pockets of money, because you find everything we're saying funny and the main problems of the citizens of Serbia. What we have left behind, and what you have left behind, and what anyone has found, we can talk about. The average salary was 30 euros when you exercised power in 2000. We increased it to 300 euros, from 30 euros to 300. We've returned the old foreign savings. We've returned 13 of the remaining pensions that you've taken away from the citizens of Serbia. We've returned Telecom, we've returned the country to the UN. You kicked us out of the UN, out of the developed world. The debt was 14 billion euros when the DS took over. Let me get this straight. We left him 15.1 billion. One coma is one billion dollars in debt to the DS, and we accept that. We also take the blame on behalf of those who are silent today, and they were our coalition partners, but I don't want to mention them now, that's up to them. So one coma, one billion dollars, has D.S. debted the country. You come to power in 2012, with 15.1 billion you owe the country 26 billion euros. More than 10 billion euros in debt to Serbia with your boast, unprofessional and corrupt policy. These are the consequences of your authority. Dear friends, you are in power for the seventh summer. You've ruined everything you've touched. That's how much no one ruled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39442	Ambassador, who are you in charge of communication with?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39443	Can I help you?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39444	Who are you communicating with?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39445	I answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39446	What do you answer to?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39447	Because of the citizens of Serbia, I am speaking by amendment in the time of the parliamentary group, and I am responding to what Mr. Arsic said. And please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39448	I don't understand who you're answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39449	So I can't go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39450	No, you can do whatever you want, but on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39451	No, I can't do whatever I want, only it's in the Rules of Procedure. We respect the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39452	I know, I know, respect for the Rules of Procedure killed you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39453	We respect the law, unlike Zelja, Zvonko Veselinović and others. So, dear friends...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39454	On what basis do you answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39455	President, I asked you earlier if the Democratic Party had time for a parliamentary group? You said yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39456	Is he authorized? As far as I know, Alexandra Jerkov is authorized. You're not the group president, you're not the deputy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39457	Does the Democratic Party have time?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39458	There's a time group. And you think in that time you can take over all the powers and answer whatever comes to mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39459	I am glad that the citizens of Serbia have heard at least part of how the Serbian Progressive Party has ruined the country. Unfortunately, they're taking up my time again, so I'll take another chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39460	Nobody takes anything away from you. Please, it's a deal to get up one by one, so for a while, time, they're taking up some time. It's already becoming tragic. Please don't. It is up to me to lead this Parliament and a session of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 27. I was just asking you if there was a change in the parliamentary group, is there someone else authorized now, too? You say, "I can do what I want in group time." If you're so... (Radoslav Milojic: I didn't say. No, I'm fine, really. I won't fight it, let him talk who he wants, because you don't talk about the amendments at all. But, okay. (Alexander Martinovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You in the Rules of Procedure. I accept responsibility in advance. So this has gone beyond my control and I accept responsibility in advance. But I have to delete the list now to give you my word. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. The Democratic Party continues with its morbid policies, since they obviously do not have another policy. Here were the words that SNS did not say a word about the weather, about the damage suffered by citizens of certain municipalities and cities in Serbia. Why? He says, because I quote this mind man from the DS, you're getting high. Mrs. Ivana Stojiljkovic from Užica, I don't know if she's getting high. Smederevska Palanca, did you, man, get high? (Radoslav Milojic: May I answer? Milanka, did you get high? Where is Krsto Janjušević? Man, did you get high? I now ask the gentleman of the Democratic Party, these are all the municipalities and cities that have been hit by the weather these days, they haven't eaten, they're just people of flesh and blood. (Radoslav Milojičić: Vukić is getting high. How much money will Dragan Gilas... (Radoslav Milojic: Gasic has become a big fan. He's got a taste for it. )......................................................................................................... Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Sutanovac, to set aside to help Uzica, Arlija, Požezi, Smederjevska Palanca, Pozarevec and all other places in Serbia that have suffered the weather? Well, Dragan Gilas, who bought the Democratic Party these days and who is the real president of the Democratic Party, has reported assets, people, of 25m euros. So at least let him single out some of the funds so he can rebuild the church, the school, the kindergarten, somewhere in Pogorevec, a little bit in Uzic, a little bit in the Smederjevska Palanca. The Wolf Jeremic, a man who received in two years seven million and 200 thousand dollars, a bit of the Qatar Embassy, a little from Hong Kong, a little from Guinea-Bissau, a little from Singapore, from New York, ask God from where...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39462	No, he didn't get anything from Guinea. He got it from Qatar.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39463	Isolate a little of that money, help the troubled people who have suffered damage due to the unremembered storm that has affected Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39464	Thank you, MP. MPs, as I have determined that the vote is at 1400 hours, I will now make a small interruption to prepare for the vote. At 3 p.m., we'll continue to discuss the amendments. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities, in general. I conclude the vote: no one voted for – 143 against – one abstention – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill with the majority of the votes of all the MPs. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – six, abstention – no one, a total of 148 MPs participated in the vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal by a majority of the votes of all the MPs and has elected Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Let me congratulate her on yours and on my own behalf and wish her success in her further work. I am voting on the proposal by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia to elect Zeljko Jovic as vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – two, abstention – no one voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal and elected Zeljko Jovic as deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate him on yours and on my behalf on the election of Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia and wish him success in his further work. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that each candidate for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency shall be voted in particular, as well as, according to Article 105, paragraph 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the Agency's Committee. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Commissioner's proposal for information of public importance and protection of personal data to elect Vida Petrovic Škero as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – two, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly did not select Vida Petrovic Škero as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. I put to the vote the Citizens' Protector proposal to elect Janko Lazarevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted four MPs for – 142. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Janko Lazarevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee for Most Votes. I am voting on the proposal from the Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia to elect Zivojin Rakocevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: for – 144, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly chose Zivojin Rakočević as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the elected members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee on the election and to wish them successful work. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – one, abstention – no one voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Thank you. Now we have a break until 15.00 hours, regular break minus 10 minutes. So, at 3 p.m., we'll continue to discuss the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39466	Good afternoon, we're moving on. The People's MP, Novica Tonchev, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Djordje Milicevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, dear colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers, respected ministry representatives, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS Parliament Club and Mr Nejo Jovanovic, as an authorised representative, said during the debate in the principle that the parliamentary club will support a set of legislative proposals coming from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the topic of the current assembly session. As for the amendments I have submitted, the amendment is not essential in nature, but technical in nature and submitted to better regulate this legislative provision more precisely. I say, the amendment refers to Article 1 which says - local self-government is the right of citizens to direct and through the freely elected representatives manage public affairs from direct, common and general interest in the local population, as well as law. The election proposal defines the ability of local self-government, and we propose that it be the obligation of local self-government to propose to the electoral proposal - the boundaries of the law, we suggest that it be - in accordance with the law, they plan, they edit, they manage public affairs that are in their jurisdiction of interest to the local population. The amendment is not an essential nature, but a technical nature. We tried to further specify the provisions when it comes to Article 1 of this law. Although this amendment has not been accepted, it certainly does not affect the essence and does not disrupt the realisation of the objectives that want to be achieved through the adoption of this legislative proposal, which is entirely, as I said, acceptable to the SPS Parliament Club. We believe that by adopting the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, we are actually doing and making a qualitative move, one huge step forward towards the realisation of the objectives set and defined when it comes to this legislative proposal. Let me just continue a few sentences to make it clear and precise again that the SPS Parliament Club has an attitude to support this legislative proposal. Just a few sentences. First of all, it means a very mandatory public debate, when it comes to preparing a budget decision for local self-government, and above all in the investment part. This is actually a guarantee that citizens in local self-government will participate in setting priorities which are very important to them. Then, rationalisation and optimisation of local self-government, which has already been discussed in principle, when it comes to the number of municipal assistants, the number of mayoral assistants, city council members and municipal council members, which will be consistent with the number of residents. The law also defines and defines more publicly and transparently the work of the local parliament more precisely. A public provision, which was also discussed, stipulating that a session of the local parliament could be scheduled as soon as possible within 24 hours, and where there are reasonable reasons for that. It also provides for the possibility of a public debate when preparing decisions that are of exceptional importance and importance to citizens. So that citizens themselves can participate in a process that precedes decisions immediately before the decisions come before the councils in the cities or congregations of municipalities. For example, a decision on the municipal order for what citizens are certainly interested in. Then, as has already been said during the debate in principle, the law also specifies how local communities function, which is very important. It is a very important relationship between the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government through this law when it comes to local communities. It is good that the law treats local communities as a basic type of organisation of citizens. Of course, the possibility of inter-municipal co-operation with regard to trust and source jobs based on which several municipalities and cities can be associated with an agreement will be able to organise joint operations. Of course, at the very end, but also equally important and significant when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was also discussed by fellow Jovanovic during today's debate, so the allocation of funds to the budget fund for the local self-government programme. What is important and important for the MPs' SPS club is that the funds in this year, when it comes to this issue, are higher by 30.17% compared to 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39468	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39469	Very short. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, for reasons of integrity and the provisions themselves and a clearer determination, I, as Minister and in the capacity of the Minister, will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39470	Thank you, Minister. National MP Dr Danica Bukvic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39471	I have submitted an amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which concerns Article 1. The bill is amended and reads, in the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 2 is amended and reads: "The local self-government is the right of citizens to decide directly and through free elected representatives, in accordance with the law in the units of local self-government, on issues and on public affairs, of direct common and general interest to the local population. This amendment is a more precise definition of the subject matter of the law. I would just like to point out some of the priorities of this law that my colleagues have already discussed in principle. The adoption of this law achieves better work of municipalities and cities and greater participation of citizens in policymaking in the locality. In this way, local self-government becomes more efficient and modern citizen service. The public debate on the bill has been going on for almost two years now, so that citizens could make their remarks and thus advance the law. What is particularly significant is the fact that citizens will have the opportunity to engage in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget, i.e. citizens will be able to decide directly what will be built in their municipalities. I would also point out the greater possibility that citizens themselves are launching initiatives that are important to their environment, which are achieved by reducing the percentage from 25% to 5% of the total number of citizens with voting rights that can be submitted to this bill's citizens' initiative. Also, so far, the number of local officials and the number of council members has been very charred and different in different municipalities. The law lays down a rule by which the number of local officials will depend on the number of residents of municipalities or cities. All proposed changes are in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I would particularly like to emphasise and commend Minister Branko Ruzic, who almost daily visits local self-government throughout Serbia with his associates. I think it is certainly the best way to get acquainted with local officials, but also with citizens, with local environmental problems, and all in order to solve the problem better, faster and more efficiently, and to make the citizens more satisfied. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote for this one in the voting day, as well as other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39472	Thank you. The MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Stević. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39473	I would like to point out and commend the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government headed by Minister Branko Ruzic, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, after a two-day principle debate, as well as today's debates in particular. The proposed legislative projects you, Mr. Minister, with your associates provide quality, pragmatic and rational work of the municipality, cities, as well as greater participation of citizens in making important decisions for the interests of the citizens of the municipality, i.e. cities. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, I submitted the following amendment. Article 1 The bill is amended and, in the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 2 after the word "representative" the words "in local self-government units" are deleted and the words "in the limits of the law" are replaced by the words "in accordance with the law". As an explanation, I have stated - the amendment sets out the provision of Article 2 of the applicable law. By passing a set of laws in the area of local self-government, citizens are primarily allowed to participate more in the work of local self-government than much more efficient work in achieving common and general interests and to a step closer to reforming the wage system. Local self-government authorities and their structure, competence and framework of action, as well as the role of other organisations and institutions at local level, but our citizens have been regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. In addition to this law, the work of local self-government is more detailed in the statutes of the municipality, or city, which is the highest legal act of the unit of local self-government. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, local self-government is the right of citizens to manage public affairs of direct, common and general interest in the local population directly and through freely elected representatives in units of local self-government. Local self-government is also the right and ability of local self-government authorities to regulate and manage public affairs within the limits of the law and public affairs that are in jurisdiction and in the interests of the local population. I think it is extremely important that all of us, as members of our local community, have the right to participate in defining the common general interest in our local self-government, participate in creating a way at the level of local self-government in public affairs, monitoring how local self-government authorities manage public affairs, and monitoring whether and to what extent defined common and general interests are being achieved. In order to successfully exercise our rights, it is necessary to get acquainted with the structure of local self-government, its powers prescribed by law, and defined by the statutes of the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39474	Thank you, colleague Stevic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? George Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39475	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 in a desire that seems to me to be common to all of us who are in the coalition and who are now mostly at the republical and local level of government, in order to ask questions of social justice, but also at all social equality and justice towards Serbian citizens. Namely, dear ministers, I must introduce you to the home address today that I received a recommended shipment from the Paracino municipality with a letter saying – to the SO Obrenovac board, since I am also a committee member and to SO Obrenovac, and such a letter requesting support for the Hijka against its own country in front of the Council of Europe and other bodies is certainly sent to all the committees in the Republic of Serbia. If I am not deceived by memory, there are 6,627 council members in Serbia, and the cost of sending this shipment is over 450,000. Therefore, honourable ministers, I expect you to have your ministry take the appropriate measures, and this is the official introduction of the State Auditor and send him into extraordinary inspection control of the Paracino municipality and to check these allegations and hunches and determine whether the money of the citizens of Paracina, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is being spent on managing a senseless campaign against their own state. I wouldn't comment on this today if Mr. Sasa Paunovic, who signed here with all the SO Paracin stamp, paid it out of his own pocket or party pocket, but like this, you'll agree, it's absolutely unacceptable. This requires urgent measures, checking and taking appropriate procedures and finally clarifying who is really working in the interest of the citizens, who is leading the campaign from what the state allows, from budgets in an appropriate manner, and who is stealing the budget of the Republic of Serbia, stealing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stealing their own citizens in Paracino to run a hunt against the Republic of Serbia at this very moment which is very important both because of KIM and for many other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39476	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Local Self-Government is a very important legal act and it actually makes a difference between state administration and local self-government, where citizens directly create their rights. Mr. Minister, we Serbian radicals expect a lot of interventions by local self-government because there are objective needs. And we know that you've been to high party functions and for that reason you know, but now you're trying to make something better. But you have to do tests very often, to see where to start. Some colleagues have talked here about the original incomes of local self-government, what original income can the local government of Crna Trava count when it has about 400 inhabitants and a total of 1.661 or 54% less than in 2002 when it was listed? Then, you need to see if any other settlements, as defined by the Law on Territorial Organization in our country, need to be given the status of the municipality. Someone here has also talked about elementary disasters, and we really have a lot of understanding for all the citizens who have been hit by an elemental disaster these days, but sometimes it happens that out of the clear sky, out of the pure peace of the Serbian citizen, there is a fundamental disaster, such as on October 5th, as in other times, when the ruling majority at the state or republican level wants to reflect the adequate state of affairs on local self-government, although it is known that people who could be chosen, are not adequately and well-adjusted. But because of the various pressures that come from the state level, such a coalition is created and some problems arise. You have to look at all of this and intervene. I hope it brings some positive changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39478	Thank you. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Marina Ristic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39479	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by reading these laws, a man cannot help but wonder why the deadlines remain so great? Our government doesn't know about any other numbers except 30, 60, 90. There are six-month deadlines, I guess that's hard to calculate in the days. Here, I asked for a shorter deadline than 30 days in this law and there is no. To deliver something, send, organize, decide, it's at least 30 days. However, it says up to 30 days, but in practice it is never shorter than 30 days, when it comes to state authorities. Then there's a 30-day response waiting. I don't know why these deadlines are just copied. We're in the digitalization process, and this government's always potential. Today, the means of communication are modern, and in our laws, deadlines remain as if we're traveling through roadblocks. Here's an example. Article 88 of the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Local Self-Government Unit is added, so Article 2 says - the unit of local self-government is supplied to the Ministry of Local Self-Government with a co-operation agreement within 30 days of the date of conclusion of the agreement. Why? The agreement, signed, can be sent immediately. Why 30 days? He's not walking. Then what happens in those 30 days? Are they allowed to cooperate now? Are they waiting for an answer? It's all stalling, it's all too slow, and the administration's using it a lot, and it's happening now in the 21st century, in our country. However, it says that the ministry only keeps that record, they receive knowledge, they do not necessarily interfere with that co-operation, as no one interferes with Mecca Omerovic's case, no one is in charge, no deadlines, so the public now labels all the MPs so that we can do what we want. Because of Mecca, we're all marked as thieves and as people to be feared.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39480	Thank you, colleague Ristic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Savić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law on local self-government. The amendments and additions to this law are only cosmetics, first of all because they do not touch the two most important things concerning local self-government. One of these things is a way of selecting committees in local self-government, and the other is a way to finance local self-government, i.e. how to distribute transfer funds by the Republic to local self-government. As for this first thing, regarding the way the councilors choose, we are all witnesses that local self-government today has everything and everything. We have a situation to say for these two years, as long as it's been since the last election, some local self-government has changed, three, somewhere even four presidents. Some of them have been chosen twice. So, one of the majority is gathered together, and one of them is agreed – come on, we'll change the president of the municipality and they'll do it. It's especially characteristic of smaller municipalities. We also had an example of the closed lists of so-called, and we have an example here in parliament, that recently about 20, maybe a month ago, one of our fellow Members became a member of the Parliament, and she was elected on the Movement list a lot. As long as there is no order in this area, in the area of electoral legislation, where you will know exactly who will have any responsibility, so far in local self-government, things like this will happen and it will be very difficult to seduce some order. The Serbian Radical Party has been warning this fact for years, however, and of course the previous authorities have been deafening this.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39482	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39483	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. The bone of this law was passed in 2007 and it has not essentially changed so far. It's not much of a period, but given how often you change the laws in this assembly, this can be considered one of the more long-term laws. However, this law was passed during the ruling of the DS, but that does not mean that the law was good when it was passed. If there were a little more listening to what the MPs of the SRS said in this room, all the laws would be much better and only changed when the real need came to that. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a large number of amendments to the law in such a way as to show that the bill has many shortcomings. I understand you won't adopt our amendments, but I'm sure this bill will go back to work. Local self-government can be seen in a certain way as a special, fourth branch of government, so that this must be approached in a responsible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39484	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Belačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39485	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled a series of amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. With our amendments, we wanted to improve the proposed legislative solution, but we cannot help but draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, who are monitoring this transmission, that all proposed changes and complement mostly cosmetic character and that nothing essentially changes in them. Therefore, this bill does not address the core of the problems faced by citizens in local self-government, which is the inability to hire in local self-government of non-governmental citizens. In large local self-government, this is not a particular problem, but ask yourself how in small places where the industry is destroyed and where local self-government may be the only institutions where it is possible to enter a working relationship. Young people who compete with work in local self-government are conditioned to join the ruling parties, deliver safe and capillaries, go to rallys and perform other party duties so that they can retain their jobs. Our question to you, Mr. Minister, is are you ready to deal with this problem and are you able, since you belong to a minority party in the ruling coalition, to solve this problem? If you decide to deal with this problem, you will have to come up with an appropriate solution yourself, because in the European legislation on the basis of which you write the laws, you will certainly not find a case like this. Unfortunately, the situation in which local self-government is subordinated to the needs of ruling parties is characteristic of Serbia alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39486	Thank you, colleague Belacic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Professor Boyich.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39487	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, through the proposed amendments, we are seeking to present our opinion on this bill, given that we are time-limited to talk and discuss only a few of its members. In this proposal, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which sets out as the reason for this legislative initiative, has been incorporated into as many as six sectoral laws. Practically, sectoral laws update the tasks and responsibilities of local self-government units. Much greater problems are the shortcomings in the practical application of the applicable law, which is also acknowledged by the promoter, that the current legal solutions in practice produce very different results, than that certain cities and municipalities are highly recognised and known in the public, as such is the city of Jagodina, until many previously developed municipalities are now in prison. An example of this is the Smederjevska Palanka. Obviously, it's not about legal solutions. It's about the human potential and the motivation of city and municipal teams to improve their environments. In municipalities, local self-government units are not enough, and in some even few citizens' initiatives, new ideas, enthusiasm and all that leads to progress. We will adopt many solutions here, vote the laws, but the problems will remain, because there is not enough professional, administrative, material, financial and technical potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39488	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, given the financial over-indebtedness of local self-government, are trying to make a contribution to this amendment by the SRS, and are getting to know the public that local communities have no role in creating their living and economic environment. Due to lack of money, local self-governments form those local communities whose voting body is more numerous. Local communities with a small population generally remain without basic infrastructure and municipal conditions. As much as the funds will be invested in the development of the local community, only one man, mayor or president of the municipality, is determined by the care of how to continue to extend his political life and remain in power. That is why the advice of local communities has lost all meaning and therefore their decisions are not being considered. In order to develop a single environment evenly and the survival of people in those environments, especially rural ones, the ministry should immediately suspend this practice. The aim is to transfer local self-government jobs to smaller territorial units, in this case the local community, residents of a particular local community are mostly on their own. The councils of local communities are not elected by law, but are mostly activists of certain political parties. Instead of involving its citizens in the decision-making process on their territorial units, the state is doing exactly the opposite. Citizens are not asking questions and centralization is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39490	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39491	Mr. Ruzic, the explanation that the Government rejects the amendment that we have submitted and which I am now explaining is not good because it is technically written, that legal norms have been applied, and indeed that is not true. Because citizens can't manage and directly influence jobs and exercise authority in local self-government units, the only way they can do it is through their elected representatives. And you know it well. If you look at the Constitution, Article 52, which speaks of electoral law, because the elections for local self-government are free and direct, if that's the case. However, the situation in Serbia is really different. In all additions, or so to say, the elections that are beyond the regular deadline, and even on this regular one, have shown that the ruling party's pressure is so high on voters by buying votes, various promises, employment, paying electricity, showing ballots after leaving polling stations, taking pictures of mobile phones, packages, all of this has led to the absurdity of writing in the law that the elections are free and direct. Because if you have a situation where a candidate for a councilman in Koseric, Vrsac, in any city in Serbia, in Mionica, where elections were held recently, it thus faces a political struggle that all because of the political party's pressure on voters, promises, blackmails, etc. Then we can't talk, Mr. Ruzic, about any law on local self-government improving the functioning of local self-government. And, as long as the committee is free of charge, and is on the market, it will not be in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39492	Thank you, colleague. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39493	Mrs. Jovanovic, thank you for pointing to this very important question. But I think it's important to point out for the public, that it is possible, through the referendums, that the citizens of a municipality make a statement, directly affect the policy of a municipality. So, if the referendum declares any issue that is relevant to them and the municipality, then the municipality is obliged to implement politics practically according to that decision. So it's not true that a direct statement is not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39494	Thank you, Minister Rose. Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39495	Replica. I didn't mean the referendum and you know very well, Mr. Ruzic, when this provision was first introduced into the law. You were part of the opposition SPS back then. In 2001, because of the invitation to some European Charter and the recommendations of the Council of Europe, where Serbia has not yet been a member, it has been changed not because of the referendum, because we are not arguing the issue, even there are many local self-governments in Serbia where SRS committees, in certain issues, are asking citizens to make themselves known in this way, but because of the NGO sector that is supposed to directly affect local government. That's how we have in Kragujevac, which is what the previous government left for us, and Radomir Nikolic is probably still so close to Scott, at the entrance to the City of Kragujevac Assembly building, a board marking the American embassy. Is that normal for you? You have other cities in Serbia -- well, there's a city that helped us out there from the EU, and we now have to respect it and do everything we're asked to do. You recognize yourself in this law and in the reasons for its change and the addition that you will because it is, and so it is, about 70% of the laws that you bring to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are just applied at the level of local self-government, that you do not dispute that you and your coalition authority want this influence of European officials and these Brussels bureaucratic administrations to be brought down to the level of local self-government. So, first of all, when I was talking, I was thinking about what happened. the non-governmental sector, and their impact is also great, especially those who work for the interests and foreign intelligence services and many hostile structures from the west, in individual local self-government and how great.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39496	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Tomislav LJubenović submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39497	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment promoter and the amendment was proposed in the draft law on which we are talking today about Article 1 proposed to delete the words "in the units of local self-government", and the SRS parliamentary group proposed that in this amendment, the existing law in Article 2 said: "local self-government" replaces the words "self-government in cities and municipalities". Article 2 of the existing law defines the term local self-government, as the right of citizens to manage public affairs of direct, common and general interest in local populations, directly through the freely elected representatives of local self-government units, as well as the right and ability of local self-government authorities to regulate and manage public affairs within the limits of the law and public affairs which are within their jurisdiction and of interest to the local population. In its explanation for these amendments and additions to the law, the Proposer cited compliance with other laws, with the 2011 Association Act, with the Law on Planning and Construction, 2014 and other laws. On the basis of this, we can conclude that for such an important law, such as the Law on Local Self-Government, it is unacceptable to wait so long for harmonisation, since it is clear that because of the non-compliance of the law in the practice of people in local self-government can be met with various problems resulting from non-compliance. Our parliamentary group is of the opinion that the adoption of this amendment would improve the text of the law, which will be adopted in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39498	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39499	What should be the essence of every law on local self-government? Efforts to make more citizens at local level involved in decision-making and in the functioning of local authorities, and that is the essence of the aim to be pursued. We here have constitutional provisions that clearly state that all local self-government, i.e. all citizens are equal and equal, and in all the laws that we have so far had the opportunity to see, especially when it comes to funding local self-government, we see one injustice that has been going on for decades, which has not been corrected in any way, because the government that is current does not think of taking any radical or root measures, depending on how it is politically defined. It comes down to the following -- inequality when it comes to local government being seen in the very fact that those citizens and those local self-governments located in northern Serbia, in the AP Vojvodina, have the exclusive that between local self-government and the central government have one mediator, which is the government that makes up the AP Vojvodina, i.e. the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the AP Vojvodina. Now when it comes to original funding, which should serve to improve local self-government and one part to finance central government, or state, we who live in that part of Serbia must further finance an administration that is not so small, which is located in the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. When it comes to transfer funds, we have a situation for entrusted transactions given to local self-government, funds are placed and paid through intermediaries called AP Vojvodina's authorities. So, for education and health, money comes first from the central register, or the republican budget goes to the province, so the province transfers these funds to local self-government. What did we deserve in the north of Vojvodina to have such an exclusive? By incapacitation and lack of the courage of the current government to once stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39500	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39501	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments and additions you propose to Article 1. The draft law on local self-government, i.e. the changes you make, is a linguistic clarification of the text of the law, as we can see from the reasoning. Article 1 The draft law relating to Article 2 of the existing Law on Local Self-Government defines only local self-government. The Serbian Radical Party, which we have submitted, demands that the text "in the limits of the law" be deleted because every local self-government operates within the borders of the law and by law, at least that's how it should be. If you wanted to clarify the text of this bill, which you say you have worked for many years and to change and supplement the water towards promotion, then you certainly had to accept this amendment to the SRS and to improve and specify the legal text. This draft law lays down the rights and duties of municipal councils. The competencies of municipal councils in Belgrade's municipalities have been reduced, so the question of what they serve is often asked. With the centralisation of authorities in Belgrade, a large number of municipal authorities are moving into the city's jurisdiction, thus reducing the budget of certain municipalities. It is true that since 2016 and with the lease of business space when it becomes the city's ingenuity and during the distribution of income is 70:25 and 25% of the rent remains only for municipalities. The Serbian Radical Party advocates decentralisation of the government that you are only talking about in the campaign and restoring certain responsibilities to municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39502	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39503	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Law on Local Self-Government, in order to further put an emphasis on the importance of co-operation between local self-government and state administration authorities. Given that state administration authorities coordinate, promote and encourage development in different areas, of course, in line with the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, the aim is to create conditions through co-operation between municipal and state bodies to improve all segments of importance for our society. In view of the fact that the Budgetary System Act provided for a law that we discussed at the end of last year, it is vital that our local self-government prepares, prepares documentation, prepares projects to make as much use of these incentives as possible to improve their infrastructure and conditions for its citizens. The strategic goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly to invest in existing infrastructure, but also to build new, new roads, into our better integration in the region, because this is a prerequisite for us to be available to investors and to create conditions for new employment and development and our economy. We are witnessing that it is now more than ever invested in these capital projects, that it is done on a continuous basis, committed, in line with the priorities and that infrastructure works are being carried out throughout our country. So it's no longer a campaign, it's not a back-to-back, it's been done all year, so that as many projects as possible and as much of our infrastructure can be restored. What is also important when it comes to capital projects, which is now being put on what has been neglected for years, so projects are being done in the area of water supply, sewerage networks, and I would have to point out that Triestenik Municipality has just signed a very important project these days, and it is about building a masteral water line through villages that are moving on the right side of Morava, and it is also preparing documentation for the left-hand side of Morava. So we want to work responsibly, committed, to respond to all the needs of our citizens and to correct all that has been neglected in previous years. That is the key, in timely operation and listening to the needs of our local community. It is extremely important for local self-government, or its representatives, to be available to citizens, to listen to their needs, to respect their suggestions and to work to improve every segment of life. It is also important to make timely preparations and projects and documentation, to try to respond as best as possible to the challenges and to take advantage of every opportunity to develop and launch all our cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39504	Thank you, colleague Turk. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39505	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, the proposed amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government contributes to better work of local self-government units, where citizens will participate more in policy making, contribute to more efficient work of officials, improves the conditions for achieving the rights and position of members of national minorities. It brings changes to the work of the assembly, the municipal council, reforming the functioning of the local communities. Given that there is a problem in Serbia that the education system does not meet the needs of the economy, that trained staff cannot work in the economy and that professional professions are in the deficit, co-operation of educational institutions and local self-government units is necessary. The integration of the business council and the local employment council with the technical school have seen the needs of the economy in the territory of the Municipality of Stara Paz. Specific solutions have been offered in education, i.e. the opening of new policies to be employed in numerous companies operating in the territory of the Municipality of Stara Paz. Such co-operation is an example of good practice and contributes to the development of a municipality that belongs to the most developed municipalities in Serbia and has submitted an initiative to obtain city status, and also contributes to Serbia's overall development. In that regard, I also submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is amended in Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government and where a new position is added: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the school system." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39506	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39507	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment concerns the development of municipalities and cities, primarily economic and economic development. The law on local self-government must be primarily and necessary for it to apply to economic and economic development. This economic and economic development has led to better budgeting. That people's wallet is getting bigger. That people's wallet builds infrastructure, conditions for a better life, and thus raising the standards and lives of citizens, and I guess that's the goal of all of us, working on it and having that kind of results. I will give an example that happened in our Serbia, in the Mačvanski and Kolubar district seven, eight years ago, and is related to Article 88a of this law, which is the Agreement on the Co-operation of Local Self-Government Units, which contained 11 small municipalities. So, at the level of the Machvansko-Collubar district of three cities, Šabac, Valjevo and Loznica were not in the agreement and were all small municipalities. This was supported by the then Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and the community of small municipalities began to function. However, we are not taking anything big and small to raise the standard and to develop economically economically. However, this did not occur primarily because it is under the rule of the day, which is not today. It's just that everyone wanted to be great powers in small communities and it didn't come to life. However, it has not lost its meaning and, looking at the proposal of article 88 of this law, it is returning to life such a thing, so I suggest, given that the problems of these small municipalities are mostly similar, especially in the same space, that something like that can simply be restored because of that, because no one loses anything, they can only get. I'll even list the municipalities that were in that 11. They are Bogatić, Vladimirs, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Osječina, Lajkovac, Mininica, LJig, Ub and Koceljev. I say, they're with similar problems. It is an area that, on the one hand, is bound by the river Drina, Sava, Kolubara, Tamnava, Machva, Azukovica, Radjevina. It's a great space that together can progress much better than it's progressing individually. That's why my proposal is practical, to make it all work again. Of course, it depends primarily on the management of the municipalities to restart the mechanism and to raise ourselves together in economic terms, to raise the standard of life, and thus to raise all these ends, and thus to live throughout Serbia. That would be my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39508	Thank you, fellow Matić. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39509	Thank you, Your Honor. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government is a continuation of the government's efforts to transform administration into a more efficient and professional service for all Serbian citizens. To achieve these objectives, it is necessary to improve citizens' participation in policymaking. It is precisely for the amendments and additions of the Law on Local Self-Government that better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy and greater public inclusion, involving citizens in the process of preparing the investment part of the local self-government budget, including the highest public in the process of preparing the laws of strategic and other public policies, encouraging citizens to launch an initiative of importance for their environment. It is found that 5% of the total number of citizens with voting rights is enough to launch a citizens' initiative. The law will allow for better and easier functioning of local self-government, and the aim is for all citizens and public servants as bearers of all these changes to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39510	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39511	Dear Chairman, I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is amended in Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, a new stance reads -- co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving the conditions of the military and police. But I can't speak fully of this amendment when we have a negative news and attacks on Serbia on stage, we also have these attempts of blockades, which have been caused by individual representatives of the opposition leaders, who later cheated on the people who were on those blockades, because they promised to pay them all the costs they had and pay all the fines. Also, we have had these days and attempts to scare Belgraders with drinking water, we have also had an attempt at a media link with this missing journalist affair, and all in order to continue the tremendous pressures on the outside and inside, so that there is no compromise in talks with Pristina and in the follow-up of the dialogue that should begin next week again, out of the desire to weaken the negotiating position of President Vukic, who does not want to accept anything that would be harmful to Serbia and its citizens. Simply, all of what Vuk Jeremic is doing under the orders of some Western power centres, where he received huge money from criminals from individual governments and government representatives who were once in the top positions, that money through his NGO was used for precisely these kinds of media attacks on Serbia. All the things he didn't say and the moments when there was a unilateral declaration of independence in KIM in 2008, he now places a burden on this government, the President of the Republic, and all in order to weaken its negotiating position, pressures Serbia. All of what the opposition is doing today in this debate, where we see individual representatives of local self-government who have destroyed their local self-governments, who have spent their citizens' money, now have the nerve to face SNS representatives and in this room is talking about those results that now show that Serbia can finally provide what is needed to improve the quality of our citizens. So we have one representative, in fact, to date the chairman of the DS Executive Board, who, as chairman of the Executive Board, has been robbing Serbia, and is now burdening the chairman of the SNS Executive Board who, in a transparent manner, publicly, comes out to the media, where he says the SNS controls its officials, replaces its non-good officials and thus can guarantee that SNS representatives work in favour of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39512	Thank you. Alexander Chabrai, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39513	Thank you. I'm using my authorized time. Here, since we've just heard about some blockades before, I don't know what kind of blockade it is, since what I've been able to see today is that the kids are playing in front of the football assembly. I don't know what kind of roadblocks we're talking about, and I don't get this?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39514	You probably didn't understand your colleague, Becic. Proceed to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39515	I think I understood him very well. He talked about the desire to weaken Serbia's negotiating position, about Vuk Jeremic, Aleksandr Vukic, etc., so I just got the desire to remind everyone here in the hall and the citizens of Serbia, which we are talking about right now. We're talking about an amendment to Article 1. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, which reads as follows: "In the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 2, after the words "representatives", the words "in local self-government units" are deleted. “ So what we have already heard about this, I really don’t think that I really know who might have counted it, but to bring into some logical relationship with what we are supposed to be talking about, because all these amendments concern only this member and nothing else. Correct me, please, if I'm wrong, the chairman. Speaking of which, I was in the opening part of the session, in the discussion of the principle, already said that as far as the financing of municipalities that many colleagues talked about today, within this same member, there have long been comments regarding recent changes that the authorities of the municipalities have been reduced to cemetery and market. All these solutions certainly speak in favour of centralised, and this cannot be a good solution, because I am not sure that centralised is a good solution. In any case, neither did these explanations that we also heard today, which is that it must go in that direction because apparently some earlier powers that the municipalities had had had some previous power that was ten years ago abused those powers. Please, I was also talking about the application of the law, that there are no good and bad solutions, but only that they can be applied well or badly, so now that they are your representatives, and you say that these are honorable people, now at the head of the municipalities, so they're not going to abuse such solutions? It's really hard for me to talk about solutions to centralization and partocrats, on today, correct me too if I'm wrong, but it seems to me that just today was signed 800 years ago by Magna Carta, who, even then, in that Europe that we allegedly look up to, according to which we're supposed to go and seek, is a limited government of rulers. So all those countries we've been looking at have been going towards limiting such absolute power for almost a thousand years, and we here hear constantly just calls for everything to be decided by one party and one man. If we look at this Europe at all, I think all the solutions should go in the opposite direction, not the one they're going in right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39516	Thank you. Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39517	The Honorable Chairman, I am misread because I will and now, in order for the citizens to understand to read my amendment, since the lady has mentioned eradicating some members and all this does not stand in my amendment. I said that the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving the conditions of the military and police. I was just talking about this, about our security sector. I, as the chairman of the Security Control Committee, well know how much pressures are now on Serbia, how much some centres of power are trying through the money they place on individuals from the opposition to challenge here even in this room certain pressures on both the National Assembly and our government. And now this latest affair with the media link that we have experienced in the last two days from individual means of information, from individual and foreign means of information when it comes to this incident with the missing journalist, was fully in the direction that the Republic of Serbia collapses and that it negatively writes about the Republic of Serbia and weakens our negotiating position and puts pressure on President Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39518	Thank you, colleague Becic. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39519	Thank you very much. In favour of the discussion. Since here a colleague who answered her word and challenged Mr. Becic's arguments, of course she made a mistake. It's not about the amendment she read at all, and that's the least important thing right now, I didn't expect some of you here to know what's being discussed when they're not constantly in the O.R. A few things. She said, she got the desire to remind us what we're talking about when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, saying she doesn't understand what blocks we're talking about when we talk about blockades and say what's on the subject of Europe. First of all, he pretends he doesn't know what we're talking about when we say blockades and pretends he doesn't know what roadblocks we're thinking about. The reminders do, although I do not believe that a reminder is necessary here, we think about those attempts to call some mass blockades cases in which five, six or seven cars, obviously politically instructed, by members of the former regimes, and, of course, those that make up the heads of its parliamentary group, groups, parties, what are already its former heads of Parliament, or groups of citizens, that is, it's just hard to tell what they are and who these people are, but everyone else. So, both Gilas and Miskovic and Šolak and Jeremic and Jankovic, all those among whom there is no difference, send people to cause riots. They send people to cause a problem. By system - the worse for Serbia and its citizens, the better for them. Then these people are blocking women with little children. Then these people block the supply of food to the socially endangered. Then these people block out the Serbian Patriarch and do all those wonderful things that we've all witnessed in the last few days. We think of those blockades when we say blockades. Besides, if it's hard to listen to us, the lady can remember with her current boss, the leader, whatever it is, Zoran Zivkovic. He writes very nicely and very vividly about these blockades on Twitter. He doesn't hide that their organizer and calls the others, all by saying in the first person of the plural -- we have to tighten now, we have to hold those blockades in so many hours, etc. Let her ask him nicely, he'll best explain to her what kind of blockages she's talking about. When it comes to Europe and the practice of parliamentaryism, I have yet to admit I have not heard of a European party going to the polls and calling for a vote for the party, and two or three other parties next to that, right, that was a major grudge -- how it is that someone is calling for trust to be given to a party. I think in every country of Europe, that party that goes out to the elections invites citizens to give their trust to her. I guess that's clear. How much they understand Europe and how close it is to them, you can see, among other things, and in the case of this last thing they do. I mean their fantastic idea of turning to the Council of Europe, everything in them well-known, and their eminent manner of defileing their own country with some notorious nonsense about how someone here is being persecuted. Imagine what is the crown proof that someone has been persecuted? The fact that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS trust citizens in about 160 municipalities. So, if it is clearly democratically expressed the will of citizens, which is absolutely not in favour of them, evidence of some problem in Serbia, so it is only evidence of their problems, their problems and their complete political irrelevantness. And at the very end, let's remind ourselves, some here have been given a desire to remind ourselves of what we mean when we talk about Kim. We're talking about this brutal and abject campaign against our own state which, of course, is not in the interest of the state or its citizens at the moment when we are dealing with such important issues, such as KIM. A little more plastic. The former parliamentary group, the lady who wanted to remind her of certain things here, claims that Serbia had first contact with KIM in 1912. These people claim that we have no historical connection to that space. These same people claim, and that's all in their official statements on the site, and today, this second when we talk about it, they claim that everything that happened to our country in 1999 was fully justified, because, imagine that thesis, Serbia has given some crimes against the Albanian population an excuse for everything that will happen to them. After all, once again, if it is difficult to listen to us and our arguments, it can be questioned about this precisely by Mr. Zivkovic, who has broken down here for months to explain to us that Serbia is guilty of all the evil that happened in 1999, but also in any other tragic event in the 1990s. These people, they don't have Serbia on their hearts. These people do not work in the interests of their country and their people, and they will be best understood obviously if they exchange their fantastic thesis with each other. I think it's getting a lot clearer now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39520	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39521	Thank you. Article 104. Well, here, I won't answer in words that Mr. Orlic pretends he doesn't understand me. He doesn't really understand me, because I think he's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39522	You have no right to a replica. You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39523	Because he expressed himself as he expressed himself in the meantime. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that. Anyway, I think the most interesting thing here would be for me to hear what stranger I'm in. What former government was I involved in? I know that, dear colleagues... The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. I have patience and, as my colleague Orlic said earlier, it is difficult for me to listen, on the contrary. Nothing is difficult for me to listen to, because the essence of democracy is that we listen to each other. But I'm going to let my colleagues go now, because they obviously can't stand for me to say anything here. And why is it hard for some colleagues to listen to me? Well, here's why. Perhaps because I have never participated in any former government, which I have no boss, and ask a little bit, with all due respect to Mr. Zivkovic, who is the head of the parliamentary groups, we are not the parliamentary group of a party. We're an independent committee club. Seems to you, dear colleagues, that's the hardest thing to do. Well, I can tell you that I can represent the voice of citizens here who have no party interest right now, but speak for the citizens of Serbia, who you keep forgetting. Here, I will now only allow citizens to hear what you are throwing, because you cannot stand to be told something that is not from a party point of view and not by a party soldier, but by someone who really speaks for himself as a citizen of Serbia and in the name of other Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39524	Thank you. First, I want to tell you that it really is, colleagues Becic and colleagues Orlic were absolutely right when they said you were really talking about another amendment, not an amendment submitted by MP Igor Becic. You've requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't absolutely understand what you were talking about and what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. As for their dilemmas about the head of the party, the parliamentary groups, I really can't be the vice president of the National Assembly sometimes to decrypt, because you had a lot of debacles. Is the centre movement, is the DJ, is it independent, so sometimes we can't update that information. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. - Yes, you do. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. I don't know if I've heard correctly, but you, Mr. Chairman, check, have injured the dignity of the National Assembly in the most harsh way possible. If someone asks the ruling coalition to explain to her which party it is, then I really don't know what is not a violation of dignity to such an outflow of words that followed. To remind the lady, they came in here as D.J.B. It's an association of citizens, not even a political party. We haven't found out exactly. But soon it wasn't enough, it was enough of them, so they never had enough. And I think the lady belongs to the party either way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39526	Comrade Rističević, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm willing to even spend a few precious seconds of Parliament because I want to help my colleagues and colleagues. Three things. About two, unfortunately, I can't help it. To a direct question where a stranger is, to explain it to him. If he doesn't know which party he's in, I can't help it. The second question is, what he's saying is he's got a head of parliament, but he's gone, probably thinking he's not in the O.R. Not even here, unfortunately, I can't help it. He's never here, so he's gone. What I can help with is that we can agree on the the thesis that their group does not represent the interest of a party, not just because there are no political parties. It's about pure interest associations, but because it's about that particular interest. It doesn't matter how many parties, movements, groups of citizens, groups of fans, I don't know what, young philatellists to join together, they may not be one party, but they are representatives of one interest, one that is definitely not Serbia's interest. Whose is it? They know that very well, and I am very glad that we agree on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39528	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39529	I, like my colleague Orlic, will use some valuable time authorized to explain something. The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. Go ahead, I'm in no hurry. I'm in no hurry. So, as far as my political party is concerned, here, I'll tell you that I'm not a member of any of them. I am a member of the Group of Independent Members. I know it's just hard for you to accept that someone can speak for a simple citizen, not some party, but here, that's exactly the case with me. So I can't help you there, nor have I been a member of any party. And you can check that out. If you show me which party I'm a member of, here, I'll agree with you immediately. Now, if I had something else to add, which is that I read a member to whom all these amendments are submitted. So, since it wasn't clear to anyone from what we're talking about, I was talking about a member you're all applying to these same amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39530	Thank you, colleague Chabrai. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39531	Mr. Chairman, I think he's a 107. Rules of Procedure down. Now I'm going to explain why. A colleague who spoke simply acted as if we political party members were somewhat less valuable in this National Assembly than those who were not in any political party. Whether or not someone was, I will not enter, but I do know in the theory that the holders of the democratic system in one country are very political parties, because political parties are citizens' associations with a clearly defined political goal, which is to implement the programme. I am fully agreed that groups of non-political citizens can try to deal with politics, but they do not have their own political agenda and the question arises – who do they work for? Okay, we know they represent someone, but what's their goal? They don't have it, but it doesn't bother them that when elections are won from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as political parties that have the entire infrastructure, 79 million dinars. So, when it comes to politics -- no, we're a group of citizens, when it comes to money -- no, we're politicians. That's what it looks like with them, and that's how I see it. I don't want the Parliament to plead in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39532	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, by me following my colleague Radeta, to finish this debate or to propose a roundtable, so that maybe Dr Martinovic will give us a lecture on constitutional law, political system, and we can discuss it because it is not the topic of the session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39533	Article 107(1), and I'm the only one who doesn't know what you needed this for a lecture. If you need someone to give a lecture, you organize, but indeed there are us who know the Constitution well, and the Rules of Procedure, etc. So, Mrs. Chabraya, that was the basis of my report, explained just before to the public of Serbia and to the MPs that she was not actually a national MP and had any need to go to the Office, resigned and left. Someone who says it doesn't belong to anyone, that he came with someone, that now he doesn't know who he belongs to, that he has someone who's head of the parliamentary group, but she's not in that parliamentary group, that she came with one political option, that she no longer admits that political option. Indeed, once again listening to what she said, she only explained to us that she was not actually a National MP. The fact that she stayed here after all these simple denominations, that's something that is a problem and this law and this Rules of Procedure, in fact, then it comes down to the problem of the congregation's majority who didn't want to pass a normal Rules of Procedure and the Law on the National Assembly that would really introduce order. We no longer know how many parliamentary groups we started this assembly, how many parliamentary groups there are now. Every day some new ones appear, each day they split into new parliamentary groups. You know, it really has nothing to do with democracy. If one of them thinks that what they're doing is democracy, no, it's not, democracy is something quite different, democracy means certain obligations. The people of these people now say they belong to some – these are the latest some groups called them "joks".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39534	Thank you, colleague Radeta. You know, if I hadn't thought of you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39535	Thank you very much. Since that direct address seems to have made a certain intention here as a fundamental argument in this debate to explain that some are not party members and never were, let it be a surprise to those who gave birth to it, but we absolutely agree. So what we've been proving here in the National Assembly for months, and exactly what they're saying right now, exactly what they're admitting right now. We, I recall, claimed that Enough was right, of course, the group that belonged to or that list that belonged to the lady who had just said - I was never a member of the political party. So we also claimed that it was never a political party, and they falsely represented themselves as a political party. We argued, they are not only not a political party, but they are not able to register. Their registration process is controversial because they don't have enough signatures. They are unable to collect enough signatures to register. We were still saying -- they existed all the time either as a group of citizens, or as an association of citizens. As a group of citizens, because they received money through the bill for engagement in the National Assembly, and then the money could be made available, to express myself funnyly, with limited responsibility, then the money could be distributed nicely to the private accounts of its MPs, to the accounts of their entrepreneurial actions, which they did. Thirty-seven million dinars have so divided among themselves. As an association of citizens, because they were getting money from membership fees. So, if that's the case, I'm glad we get along and some people admit it today. It is not disputed and it is good that they acknowledge that they are actually representatives here, not of citizens, but of one common interest, of the interest defined by Solak, Miskovic, Djilas, Jeremic, Jankovic, and the current boss Zivkovic or former Radulovic, there is no difference there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39536	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39537	Why don't I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39538	You have no right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39539	I didn't know we were on you. Thank you, since they say colleagues, let me explain, you have no right. Okay, here, I'll use the authorized time then. So, I really wouldn't engage in this discussion with colleagues who don't know how to judge for themselves whether I'm boss Radulović or Zivkovic or Miskovic or who, and they know that none of them are. As for that money lying in accounts, etc., I ask you to tell me again what's on my account, but I'm not going down on that, because I've never wanted to get into any provocations in my life, because I know none of you can find a single stain in my career, so I guess that's why all this has to be made up. Let me explain something that's much more important. Far from that, I did, I entered the list of citizens' associations, that's true, by supporting those principles in the Assembly at the time, that's true, and I have to say, because you really didn't understand me, you really didn't understand me very well, away from me being against political parties. Of course I am for a system of political parties, so no one can argue. I'm against partocratism. I'm against party members being party soldiers, and that happens to us here every day, because when our colleagues change the party, they change politics. For this I am that personal attitude means something in politics and that personal quality means something, not that of the same person we're listening to today a single story, tomorrow a completely opposite story because of the change in party. In that sense, I oppose the parties, and in any case, the multiparty system, of course, I support it. The last thing I would support is the one-party system we seem to be moving towards, and it hasn't been far in history either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39540	Thank you, colleague Chabrai. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39541	I'm using my authorized time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's not exactly what happened. So, I remember how that guitar flew in here while playing the anthem and I remember how the lady at the press conference along with the guitar, probably Radulovic, Rasulovic, played his own. So whoever learns how to play the other player will easily find the boss of the player. I never had that boss, and I'm not sure about the lady. My God, 72 million in the budget, which they got to fund a political party that doesn't exist, would be fine if they returned that money. I also remember when they chased here together into our benches, as they shared well, then they were all so warm against us, chasing spits, pinching, I don't know what they didn't do to me. It's okay. The lady did not fence herself from enough is enough, Rasulovic left and forgot to come back, but it seems to me that neither Mr. Zivkovic nor Mr. Zivkovic admits or admits to the boss. He was the day before yesterday, and I don't see the lady fenced herself from it, said his peasants stink. While I was talking about agriculture and the necessity to lower the price of oil and diesel for farmers, as they deal with agriculture, that the tractors don't go to the road, Mr. Zivkovic did this, turned his ass, let go of the gases, and then said, "He clogged his nose, as his peasants stink." Mr. Chairman who was there interrupted him when he said it in extreme need. Now, I'd like the lady to explain to me whether she's giving up Mr. Zivkovic who says his peasants stink. Mr. Zivkovic can play gasses here or imitate gasses because he's coming from the south. Now there's no more South Stream, so I suggest we install Mr. Zivkovic instead of the southern pipeline flow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39542	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39543	Is it straight to the replica? Yes, it is. Thank you. As for the new fundamental argument now, they shared the money, but it wasn't me personally. It doesn't mean much to me, ladies and gentlemen. So, the moment that it has a positive effect on former colleagues, and of course I mean, I think, four or five and now the MPs who belong to that Saša Radulovic clan, that the money they've shared amongst themselves, I may accept that someone has repented, I will accept that someone with the whole case doesn't have much to do with it. But not only was it silenced and accepted what was done while it was working, but I don't hear the words of judgment today. Did private companies, as it was, "Timi Plus", "Jazili Fay", I don't know what it's called for to tell fate, you know who's running it, this lady who graduated from astrology, all of those companies, have four or five, divided by 37,000,000 dinars of campaign money, they did. That's shown, to be clear, in the report that's in place, here we are talking, on the site, that's enough. That's where the companies got the money. That's the 37,000,000 they shared with each other. Is that a fact? Yes, it is. That's what they say. Did we condemn that? We are on this side. You're surprised now and you don't know what we're talking about, so you're not. Look at your old reports, it'll be as clear to you as possible. So the argument – I'm not personally, it doesn't mean much. The argument – I am not personally on the subject of Miroslav Miskovic, it just doesn't mean much. I remember very well who is here, as they say, by name and last name, defending those changes of laws that would go very specifically to that man on his hand and that would help very specifically in his case. In that sense, we know each other very well here. I remember that day. Third, on the subject of party change. Whoever claims he's never been in a party, which we agree on, can be very specific about informing himself again firsthand with people from his bench, of course not now, there's no one now, but when they come. Let her ask Mrs. Marinika Tepic what it looks like when the party is changed for a very luxuriant reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39544	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Let's move on, we're closing this circle of replicas. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Here you go, Dr. Laketice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39545	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment concerning and speaking about the development and local self-government and state in general. In my presentation, I will first of all remind the broad audience, therefore, of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only of the MPs who are here today, I will remind you of the importance of the development of all those local self-governments that have the state border next to them or the long or short administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija. Namely, I will remind you that according to the last 2011 census in the municipality of Prokuplje, 44,419 residents live in the territory of the municipality, most of the population of Serbian nationality, whose average age is 36.6 years. So this age limit, unfortunately as it happens in the Republic, and in the municipality of Prokuplje is also moving towards some higher values. In addition, what is very significant is that according to the 2001 census in the municipality of Prokuplje 4,729 displaced persons from KIM and 146 refugees were registered. Also in the area of the municipality of Prokuplje in 2004, there were five collective centres, the last of which was closed in April of the same year. In these collective centres, about 260 internally displaced people were housed who, after the closure of the center or stayed to live in the city or went to other cities or went to third countries. The municipality of Prokuplje participated in the construction of several housing complexes, namely 28 housing units for refugees and internally displaced persons. What is very important and it is about the development and even development of our Republic is that the Municipality of Prokuplje first of all and with this bill, which is still on the agenda, deserves by all its characteristics to get the status of the city and the improvement of local self-government, which is the seat of the administrative districts, I think that one way to prevent and in some ways the massive and massive outflow of the population, but in addition, we definitely need what this government is doing, led by the prime minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabić, is that the investment priorities are precisely those of the municipalities that are located in these border so-called municipalities. areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39546	Thank you, fellow Laketice. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39547	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment relating to the co-operation of local self-government and state administration, and in order to protect vulnerable social groups. First of all, I would like to point out that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government is, above all, in the interest of increasing the efficiency of the work of local self-government, but also in the interest of citizens, by proposing full participation and full participation of citizens in all those issues concerning them. Also, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government also suggests that one-fifth of citizens who are age-old and who have the right to vote may submit to a local self-government initiative to address some of the issues that are of their vital interest. It is certainly the job of local self-government to work primarily on developing and creating a favourable investment climate and also to work on the economic development of local self-government. These are of course preconditions for responsible social policy, I would now like to highlight the competences of local self-government when it comes to the protection of particularly vulnerable and sensitive social groups, and in this first amendment I will first talk about the Roma population, i.e. the Roma national minority. I must point out first of all that in 2009 and 2010, in Belgrade, Mayor Dragan Gilas's organized, brutal attack on basic values has been recognised in every democratic country, and in the case of the Roma population. These values are a violation of Roma's right to their personal integrity, endangering Roma's right to their dignity, jeopardizing Roma's right to home and endangering Roma's rights to property. He is against the legal use of two methods that seem to be known today by some leftovers of the yellow enterprise, which are the methods of coercion, coercion and intimidation, diluted against the legal without the consent of about 300 families of the Roma national minority, including 114 families, including, of course, children and old ones in the Belgrade municipality in metal containers quite unconditional and unsuitable for the needs of these families. Worse still, he also carried 64 families with small children and sick people on buses, mostly in the southern areas where Roma nationals allegedly said they were coming. What I must point out is that the government of Aleksandar Vukic is for the first time in 2014 when Roma established a list of informal settlements located in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and why this is important, so that the funds are planned to be directed precisely in those areas where the members of that national minority are located. I must point out that 583 informal settlements have been registered in Serbia, that 12 urban plans have already been made for Roma settlements in ten cities and municipalities, and I must point out that unlike political Dragan Gilas, who has placed members of a particularly sensitive Roma population in containers, today this government is a municipality of Odzac, these are 34 housing units that are completely comfortable, which are of solid material, which are completely energy-insulated. There are 34 Roma families for a total of 106 people. Apart from building houses like this, which are comfortable, conditional, in the Republic of Serbia about 30 other projects are being done for the same purpose. I must point out that for SNS, a multiethnic issue is one of the most important issues of the Serbian democratic society, and issues concerning vulnerable groups are both important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39548	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39549	Here's the chairman, since the topic has just been discrimination, just to find out that I'm quite discriminated here because of what you're saying you've closed the circle of replicas, and you've never given me the right to a replica. So I'd call it some kind of semicircular replica, because I had no right to any replica. I'm not going to engage in any more untrues, half-truths and conjectures, any more of the inventions that are being made here, but just recommending that my colleagues simply file criminal charges against anyone who has violated the law, so we'll see what happens. I'm really waiting for one that day. I wanted to make another proposal that would go right into the interest of protecting everyone, especially in the interest of democracy and transparency, which is something that currently does not exist in all municipalities and cities, which is to record and transfer all sessions. It currently exists in some cities and municipalities, in many no, but I think it would be multiple useful, especially if we talk about how good the work of these bodies is. I think if the citizens deserve anything else to know, to hear and see exactly what's going on out there. I think that would be a really big step in favour of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39550	Thank you. You've had the right to speak several times, and of course you will always have. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39551	Thank you, Chairman. At the beginning of today, we had two very important tasks, and this is the debate and then the adoption of the bill proposed by the Ministry of Local Administration and Self-Government, as well as the choice of governors and vice governors of the NBS. We have fully resolved this positively, but we still have the defence of the amendments that we have submitted. I have no dilemma and I had no dilemma about voting on this issue, since Prime Minister Ana Brnabic began the real process of developing local self-government and, of course, Minister Ruzic continues at that pace, and macroeconomic stability, as well as monetary security was provided by Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, and I am sure she will do so in the future. Of course, I will always support all your proposals that seem further for future work. But what kind of MPs had all these attempts that represent the former regime, and how did they try to undermine our policy? They introduced a stone into the Assembly, then guitar, they met Parliament's president in assembly halls, they threw computer equipment at the president, then demonstrated and protested after the presidential elections because they were declared and all defeated together. Then they lost in the Belgrade elections and they're protesting again, and I'm just saying they're the force of protests that are already chronic somewhere, because they can't beat us. They are no longer involved in politics, action plans and development, except for demonstrations and I must tell you that I only feel sorry for people who had a daily of 100, 200 dinars because they are not aware of what they were doing. That diaries vary from what city the demonstrations performed. They got their official and large cars to prevent roads. When they come to, they'll understand what they've been doing, and they'll be sorry for it. I regret them, of course, not to harm the SNS, but only to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39552	Thank you, colleague. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39553	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS will support a set of laws that lead to the improvement of the work of our state administration, because we want to improve all those services provided by municipalities and cities aimed at citizens living in this country. The municipalities and citizens must indeed become the real service of citizens. You can't put up with trouble forever and hide behind bureaucracy, regulations, counters, secretaries, security. In the 21st century, you must really provide all those services that both EU citizens and citizens of many developed countries in the world have. Why do we now adopt and amend the Law on local self-government? Now the conditions have really come to pass for those truly root changes and the addition of the old Law on Local Self-Government which, I will remind you, was adopted long ago 2007. It is important to adopt amendments to the law at this time, in this month, in June 2018, because we are not really ahead of any elections, any city, any local, any republican, and we must make sure that we cannot give new powers to local self-government units immediately after the elections for this reason because units of local self-government had very different powers before the elections. We must take care of fair play in the election process, and we must also take care of the respect of the will of our citizens who went to the elections and give confidence to a particular political party in local self-government. The moment in which we pass the laws has nothing to do with the electoral processes in Serbia, we ended the Belgrade elections where the SNS really won the historic result and Belgrade's huge support was the list of Alexander Vukic – because we love Belgrade and now they really have the conditions to make changes to the Law on Local Self-Government. The change of the minister or any human resources in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government cannot challenge the continuation of the continuity of the reform processes initiated which, I will remind you, the government of Aleksandr Vukic, of the reform of the state administration, the introduction of a large number of electronic services, electronic administrations, all of those electronic services that truly give citizens of Belgrade, Serbian citizens a large number of electronic services and improve the quality of life. What are the benefits of changing and supplementing this old legal solution? Well, the benefits are multiple, better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy is achieved, greater public involvement, greater involvement of citizens living in our country themselves, more efficient and transparent work of municipalities and leading to the optimization of the number of assistants of the president, as well as the assistant mayor. Also, there will be a reduction in the number of local councilors themselves. Inclusion in the process of applying the investment part of the budget to local self-government and citizens will have the opportunity to say what to build, what to do in the local unit they live in. I will remind you, the city of Belgrade last December, indeed launched a major project, then Mayor Sinisa Mali launched a project "To build and work on your own. “ Indeed, more than tens of thousands of proposals have come from where to build a new park, a hospital, a home of health, where to improve the facilities that are missing in a particular street, a certain neighborhood, in a certain settlement. It is actually a recipe for success and I am glad that you are on a good path and that some of the elements that already exist in the city of Belgrade have been implemented in this legal solution. Also, we've heard these days that it's some kind of cosmetic change and that it's about changes that are cosmetic nature, which is actually absolutely not true. You were referring to the optimization of the number of assistants of the president of the municipalities, the mayor and that you applied the actual scale to the number of inhabitants. So now under this law of the municipality that has up to 15,000 inhabitants will have one assistant president, up to 50,000 inhabitants of two, up to 100,000 inhabitants of three, and that the maximum number that one president of the municipality will have, one local self-government will have is five. You've applied the same principle when it comes to local councilmen. At the very end, I want to say that really, I've been giving it to you today, since 10 o'clock, we've been listening to the unwarranted criticism of the opposition's work, which says it's some kind of centralization of finance. On the contrary, I have indeed had the opportunity and, as someone who comes from the local self-government unit and someone who is a MP, I am really going through a number of those trainings and trainings and gender budgeting and citizens participation, including citizens in the budget-making process, and you were actually talking in this article 40 about the need to introduce a public debate for planning investment on budget decisions, starting in 2019, about the 2019 budget. Indeed, we can ask a loud question – who can better understand the needs of a woman in the country than the local self-government in which this woman lives? Who better to understand the needs of that woman in the country? We in the EU today really do have examples of positive practices. We've got a so-called. The concepts of smart villages "smart Villages", which speaks of reducing labour migration, migration from village to town, which speaks of reducing brain drains, those Serbian minds abroad. It is a concept that works in the EU and that affirms that young people are going in the direction of self-employment, that young people in Serbia must go in the direction of starting their own business. Is it when it comes to young people in the country, to the launch of agricultural production, to the launch of organic agricultural production, but to all those missing content, and to rural tourism, and to the launch of their own small business. We have indeed had, I have indeed had opportunities as a member of the Committee on European Integration to often talk to my colleagues from Germany, from Slovenia, and these are some positive examples that we can look up to and which we can already open the door in our country and, with little legal changes, allow our people through local self-government, through different training and training, but people living in small cities, in villages, to enable and bring this process of European integration closer to the citizens of this country in order for them to feel the benefits of integration. We also had the opportunity to hear from the opposition that we wanted, in fact, this law to introduce some kind of siege in our municipalities and cities, that he wanted to present some of the opposition to the public. It's not about any siege, we actually want to introduce order and responsibility, but also about grading work in municipalities. A certain financial discipline must also be introduced, but also a responsibility for the public work done. When we know all this, everyone has to answer to the authorities in this country. We, as SNS, have indeed shown that the hand of justice has not spared either numerous representatives of the SNS or the SPS, nor many groups of citizens or parts of the opposition, and I really want to say that we are introducing, in fact, the principle of responsibility for the exercise of power in this country. In voting day, the SNS and our coalition will support this set of legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39554	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39555	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and my amendment stresses the need for modernisation in the context of Serbia's overall development. I think the amendment is in place, I think it's relying on the intensities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to digitisation and modernisation at all. I think there will certainly be an increase in efficiency in the functioning of local self-government, so municipalities and cities in Serbia. And we are witnessing that in the past, not so long ago, we have had more problems when it comes to the functioning of local self-government, a large number of abuses, failures, labour irregularities in a number of municipalities. We've all had a number of examples. When it comes to the Smederjevska Palanca, when it comes to Vračar municipality, I personally took part several times in informing the public and pointing to numerous abuses and irregularities in the work, even crimes. What is now current is the current situation, unfortunately a very difficult situation in the Municipality of Paracin, where I owe a kind of apology to the citizens, because in the principle debate I congratulated the president of the Municipality of Paracin, Sashi Paunovic of the DS, a sort of age when I said that 18 major affairs had been discovered so far. But it's my fault, I counted myself, it's 19 major affairs discovered when it comes to Sasha Paunovic, the president of the DS municipality who doesn't feel a little responsibility to resign as a moral act after all he's done for that municipality, but writes some letters, complaining about the state. But worse than that, he complains about the citizens. Whoever had the opportunity to read this letter to the Council of Europe and who knows who, in the first sentence, he complains about the political situation in Serbia and complains about Serbian citizens, with the conclusion that the DS, or that opposition parties are in power in only six municipalities in Serbia. He thus acknowledges that citizens do not want DS or other parties that make up the bloc, and complains about Serbian citizens instead of doing something concrete. Because of the time left, I won't be longer when it comes to the Paracino municipality, but for all the reasons I've stated, I think my amendment certainly has its place in this bill and I hope you'll accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39556	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39557	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia achieved fantastic results in the previous period. We've opened over 150 factories throughout Serbia. While the previous regime in less than four years fired over 400,000 people, we hired 176 thousand people in less than three years. Today, we are working intensively to stimulate employment in the private sector, to stimulate the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises because we want a healthy economy. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is equal regional development, which is the only way towards sustainable economic development, and I have therefore submitted the amendment. Given that we are discussing today the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I am somehow forced to say that I come from a large municipality of southern Serbia on the surface, and small municipalities on the number of inhabitants, i.e. The municipalities of Kurzumli. In the municipality of Kursumli, headed by the SNS, I am proud to point out that much has been done about infrastructure. Kursumli municipality singles out 41% of its municipal budget for infrastructure projects, therefore, to pave the way for new streets, for the reconstruction and reconstruction of existing streets, for the sewerage network. Over 10% of the municipal budget is allocated to student and student scholarships, to stimulate birth and parenting, to help in the house of the old and disabled. So all we do is work to improve the living conditions of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and improve the standard of living for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These funds that we're raising today for the construction of road infrastructure the former regime used to pay for various jobs and 13 and 14 jobs, and we're working today to improve the living standards and living conditions of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39558	Thank you, colleague Charapich. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Pesic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39559	Thank you, Chairman. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which defines greater participation of citizens in the creation of public policy documents, then, the maximum number of members of the municipal council, or the city council, as well as the maximum number of assistants of the president of the municipality, or the assistant mayor according to the number of inhabitants, then the obligation of the city council, the minimum time limit for calling on the meeting of the City Assembly, the right of the committee to receive information that is relevant for the exercise of the parliamentary duties, the position of local communities, will enable the comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia and certainly help achieve social equality, and my amendment goes in that direction. I will take the opportunity to mention the town of Leskovac, from which I come, as an example of good practice, because many newspapers that are now becoming the legal provision of the town of Leskovac have been applied since 2012, since the SNS has been in power in Leskovac. As for the participation of citizens in the development of the investment part of the budget, which is now becoming a legal obligation, I would like to say that the citizens of Leskovec have had an opportunity to say what is to be built in Leskovec since 2013, and what is to be built to their extent. This is realised by giving citizens the opportunity to see the list of priority projects and to assess the importance of priority projects, as well as, of course, to supplement the list with their proposals for what should be built to their extent. We went one step further in this, so we made a list of the 50 most prominent and biggest businessmen who employ the largest number of employees, so that they receive a questionnaire through e-mail from the competent services and in the same way as other Leskovec citizens have the opportunity to rank priority projects as important, but also to make their proposals. Then, the competent city services are doing an analysis and such an analysis is being provided to the Council for the Development of the City, which is again made up of the most prominent representatives of the business of the town of Leskovec who employ the largest number of workers and only after that comes the mandatory public debate. So, the city of Leskovac has been organising a public debate since the 2013 budget was prepared, which is only now becoming a legal obligation. As for the obligation of the municipal council, i.e. the city council, which is now becoming a legal obligation to adopt three-month reports on the work of public enterprises, by decision of the mayor since 2013, the city council has submitted a three-month report on the work of public enterprises and the report is being published on the official website of the town of Leskovec, so, as far as transparency is concerned, we are going in this direction. These are just some of the criteria based on which the National Alliance for Local Economic Development has certified the town of Leskovac as a city with a favourable business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39560	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39561	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment I have submitted defines the co-ordination of local self-government and state administrations. This coordination is particularly important because of efficiency in the work of local self-government, for transparency and, above all, for human resources, for co-ordination in the area of human resources and in the area of human resources. The official data from the government of the Republic of Serbia is that 15,000 IT experts are missing. The problem is slowly being resolved by the fact that 71 schools are open in the IT sector in this year and that it will be an opportunity for many young people from local self-government to further affirm in these areas. Another problem in local self-government is that qualified experts are missing to monitor pre-accession funds and competitions in many international institutions and in the right way and in time adequately compete and use these funds. Professional training of administrative staff, especially employees in local self-government units, must be at any moment high on the list of priorities. Professionalization, depoliticalisation, digitisation, continuous education, of course, and personal training of employees are recognised as a necessary prerequisite for general social and economic development which must have its basis in developed local self-government. Staff plans and systematicisation through reform solutions in local self-governments must be part of the daily activities of the Council for professional training of local self-government employees. But what is the problem at this point is that many local self-governments suffer because they are in a blockade, many local self-governments are losing because of protests organised by the opposition and hiding in these protests behind Serbian citizens and who want to put in another plan all reform activities and results both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the area of legislation that is currently relevant to improving the work of local self-government. Of course it's a double-arshin policy. I cannot speak of this opportunity without mentioning a pair from Vojvodina that started with tractors in Belgrade, when the current representatives of the opposition, who were then in power, did not allow the villagers of Vojvodina and farmers to come to Belgrade. But the most important thing is that citizens make the best difference between those who make problems and those who solve these problems and are constantly confirming it in the right way in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39562	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39563	Thank you. We had the opportunity to hear almost everything necessary in an affirmative way in the previous part of the debate for the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. I will tell you immediately that I will vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the Serbian Government. However, we also had the opportunity to listen to some criticism of the laws proposed and the proposals for humane solutions in the National Bank of Serbia that we have already adopted, but also the criticism of the completely unfounded current authorities, attacks on all officials, especially those coming from the SNS, start from President Aleksandr Vukic to some local officials. All this would not be strange or unacceptable, because the Rules of Procedure allow it, and democracy must mean that these criticisms and attacks come not only from political parties that almost ruined the Republic of Serbia, but from those members of the opposition who directly or personally participated in the destruction and theft of their local communities, leading them to abnormal duties and to the brink of destruction. Now these same unscrupulous and immoral opposition politicians are telling us how to edit and lead Serbia. They teach us, who have raised Serbia to our feet, that we should probably do what they did, so that Serbia goes back to ruin. No, not those who supported and organised traffic blockades, for example. that they think well of Serbia and the people who live here, because that's not how block problems are solved, but only creating new ones. I ask them what else should we expect from these people who are allegedly unhappy with the price of fuel and the level of excise duties, blocked traffic and who did not allow free movement of their fellow citizens, endangering even the life and health of some of them, for stopping an ambulance, for example? Is that how dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the price of fuel and the height of excise duties should be solved? Is tomorrow, if they're not happy with the price, for example? The electricity, start tearing down our power lines? If they're unhappy, say, with the price of water, they'll poison the drinking water and destroy the water, as they seem, here, yesterday by the same people, by breaking false news about the appearance of methane in the water, they've worked in every way to cause fear and panic in the population? Fortunately and on time, their intentions were discovered, and the whole network of those who spread this false news was identified, and the responsible measures were taken. I still wonder, is it possible that Vuk Jeremic, a suspect in international crime and corruption, will deliberately cause fear and panic between the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija, by deliberately coming up with and launching false information about our government's divine intention to cause unrest and conflict in northern Kosovo and Metohija, will help us or make the situation even more difficult? Is such and such a deceiver, and all those who are with him, the people should believe? No, the people read them a long time ago, and in the elections, he told them how he felt about them. The people have forever rejected their trust, repeatedly and expressed confidence in SNS and Alexander Vukic on her forehead. We of the SNS, regardless of all the obstacles that are in our way, and which the opposition purposely gives us, have the strength, will, knowledge and skill to raise Serbia to our feet, make it legally arranged, economically and economically strong and socially organized country, from local to the highest state level and to be proud and proud of what we do and how we do it. That is why these draft laws, proposed by the Government, should also be adopted and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39564	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39565	Thank you, Chairman. Respected citizens of Serbia, proposed by amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, which amends Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, I would add Article 2, which reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the efficiency of local self-government." The reform of local self-government contributes to creating a better environment for life and better living standards for citizens. It contributes to greater participation of citizens in public policy-making. Strengthening and establishing partnership relations between central and local authorities is necessary. The amendments to the laws are adopted in a way that determines the competence of local self-government units in the work of the assembly, municipal councils, administrations, reform in the functioning of local communities and strengthens community co-operation. The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration achieves better application of the Institute of Direct Democracy and greater public involvement in decision-making in the field of public policy. Citizens are given the opportunity to influence policy-making, as this bill allows public debates in the process of applying the budget decision. In the part of the planning of investment funds in the budget are the funds of all citizens and they have the right to participate in the decision-making process, how to invest and what to spend it on. This, in my opinion, is an excellent law, so my fellow MPs in voting day ask that this law be supported. Of course, if we have the strength and the time, please support my amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39566	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39567	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sent to parliament a set of laws that I thought we would all agree on, without distinction to political membership. I really don't see a reason why someone doesn't agree that the provisions of the area of operation of local self-government, instead of current jurisdiction, don't see any reason why someone disagrees that citizens can participate in the creation of a budget and I don't see any reason why someone can disagree that citizens also have an impact on investments in local self-government. I do not see any reason why local self-governments do not experience the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government as a partner to whom they can, should and must address themselves as a higher instance and whose task is to care, assist and control the work of local self-government. We had a situation that a local self-government had skipped every possible instance and addressed international organisations. With some appeal, they addressed the convention of regional and local self - administrations. They spoke to the U.S. Embassy, addressed the European Commission and the Council of the European Commission, and who knows who they came to. When I say so, I mean Paracino, President Paracino, Mayor of Paracino, President of the Sasa Paunovic municipality. Why did Sasa Paunovic do that? Why did he skip all domestic institutions? Why did Sasa Paunovic speak to strangers? What are motives? Are the motives to portray themselves as a victim without mentioning affairs and malfeasance in their own work and to show fears of possible loss of power in some next and next elections, and is it motive to show Serbia as a non-democratic state? Following such a heated response by DS MPs to the very mention of the bruce that Sasa Paunovic made to the Republic of Serbia, a clear goal and a task are seen and their desire for the Serbian parliament to prove undemocratic and impossible to continue work, and all this combined with some other activities outside parliament leads to serious doubts that there is coordination of some political organisations. If the statement by Vuk Jeremic is also given to the Shipar media and lies about plans in Serbia about any possible demonstrations and riots in northern Kosovo, which he is apparently the only one wishing for, now comes a definition, minors, one action, taking into account the back-up of certain leaders and dictatorships of a small number of people in so-called. The spontaneous gathering of citizens, with an accent on the intimidation of the insinuators, then the dice slowly start to get along. When it is added to texting to cause unrest, then we come up with an obvious desire to apply the theory of controlled chaos, What Mr. Martinovic just said as head of the SNS parliamentary bench, it seems artillery preparation. What's a controlled chaos theory? The controlled chaos is the method by which the political destabilisation of a country and its economic downturn to the border are carried out until a group of people or individuals who have financed it are brought to power and designed it. All these ways of achieving controlled chaos are present in Serbia today. First, showing a bad internal political situation. This is Mr. Paunovic's wish to address international organisations for the entry of so-called. Democratic opposition, headed by the DS, headed by Mr. Jeremic's party, to bring them all together into a group of Gilas. The next thing is to show poor foreign policy and increase tension with other countries. It is this statement by Vuk Jeremic, which he gave to the Shiptar media. The next thing you know, what's interesting is that we have a chance to see each other every day, or we've seen them these days, is the illegal organization of spontaneous gatherings. That's one point in controlled chaos theory. According to this theory of controlled chaos, these gatherings are organized using excuses of economic, religious or ethnic dissatisfaction. What we had here was the organisation of political groups, i.e. leaders through their activists who organized roadblocks with economic dissatisfaction with an excuse for economic dissatisfaction. The next thing you know is creating uncertainty and fear. This is what my colleagues have mentioned so far, and this is sending SMS messages via the Internet, that the water line is polluted, threats to officials, members and sympathisers of the ruling set of death, beating cops, etc. That's why I'm trying to amend Article 322. A criminal code relating to the prevention of an official in the performance of his duties. So, all the ways here are currently active, there's only one way left to eventually appear, which is by the theory of controlled chaos, there will be someone who will appear as an island of peace in this troubled sea. Whether it's Mr. Gilas or Jeremic, we'll see, which I hear are members of some Yoks organization that I don't know what it means or what it is, and whether it's going to happen what they've decided to do, well, it won't be safe, because we won't let them. The government will not be taken on the street, but will be elected if citizens decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39568	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39569	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, of course, that the government's proposal to amend the Bill on Local Self-Government is something that will contribute to the development and improvement of all local self-government and thus to the development and promotion of our Serbia. I come from the local self-government of Sokobanja. I am proud to say, in the previous year, the colluding was the most visited tourist destination. However, more tourists may have visited our famous spa, if the previous government, which was headed by the yellow company by June 2016, had taken a little more care of its local self-government. Not only did they not care about large investment investments and projects, but they didn't even take care of the municipal administration building. This building is otherwise a building under the protection of cultural monuments and architect Jovan Ilkic. For those who have not heard of John Ilkic, he is also an architect of our beautiful building here, the National Assembly. We've allocated nearly 10 million from the local self-government budget. Here's to respected viewers, to show, this is what the woodwork on this cultural building looked like, and today it looks like this, and we're just finishing the façade reconstruction. We've allocated nine million from the local self-government budget to renovate this beautiful building. Not only was the appearance questioned, they did not take care of the wedding hall, so the young couples forced additional costs when making marriages. Local self-government has been working on other projects, in agreement with other resolution ministries, and this is just one of a series of projects, but certainly for these almost two years, since the SNS is headed by this local self-government, we have taken huge steps and progress is already felt in the fact that more than 30,000 tourists have visited Sokobanju in these six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39570	Thank you. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39571	I thank the chairman. Amendment to Article 1. I submitted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government to further define the coordination between local self-government and state administration. The reform of public administration as one of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia is being carried out primarily in the interests of our citizens, in order to create a better environment for life, as well as a better living standard in the Republic of Serbia. The amendments to the law on local self-government bring about changes in the way of determining the competence of local self-government units, in the work of the assembly, municipal councils and administrations, improving the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens in the conduct of local self-government activities, then changing the way local communities function and strengthening inter-municipal co-operation. One of the most significant changes concerns public debate during the preparation of the budget decision and investment planning. Some local self-government in Serbia apply this way of planning, and after the adoption of this bill, it will become the obligation of all local self-government, because budget funds are the means of all citizens and have the right to participate in decisions on how to invest and what to spend them on. By connecting the number of officials, the assistant municipalities and mayors, as well as members of the council, in local self-government with the number of municipalities or cities, and in order to increase efficiency, operationality and economics, from the next local elections will contribute to the reduction of local officials in many local self-governments. The amendments to this law relate to the arrangement of the local community's position and relations with the municipality or the city. Meat communities are places to talk to citizens about their needs and problems and will thus contribute to strengthening co-operation between local self-government and local communities. The adoption of this law establishes a mechanism for joint operations between municipalities or cities in the interests of citizens, such as municipal, inspection and similar affairs, which encourages municipalities and cities to co-operate with each other. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39572	Thank you. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Snow White R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39573	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the draft law to amend Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, adding a new position 2, reads: "The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to tax liability. “ It is no doubt that the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to transform local self-government into a more efficient, more professional and modern service for all citizens by amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. However, the more effective work of local self-government will be achieved when citizens are motivated to participate in the work of local self-government as much as possible and when their proposals, suggestions and initiatives are part of decisions to be made, in particular from the part relating to budget, distribution and enforcement. If the objective of amending and supplementing the Law, which is, that all citizens in all segments of society are satisfied with the exercise of their rights and obligations, then the wider involvement of citizens in the functioning of local self-government is the right way to do so. However, without good co-operation of local self-government with the state administration and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the expected effects of local self-government work cannot be achieved, which is certainly maintained on the very quality of life of citizens. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making every effort to help units of local self-government, among other things, through dedicated projects, to start investments, to create new jobs, to revive villages and to keep young people living and working in their places and to contribute to creating better living conditions, both their own and their fellow citizens. I will give only one good example of a project that, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and through the cabinets of the Minister of Innovation and Technological Development, will be conducted in several cities and, among other things, in Užica, the city from which I come, where the innovation start-up centres will be opened, where young people, professional, trained personnel, by doing innovative and professional work, will work on new projects, thus helping their businesses, provide better conditions for life and work, to stay in their places to live and work, which is, in any case, the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of all citizens of our country, and thus to provide better conditions for the lives of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39574	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Pantovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39575	Thank you, Chairman Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, good co-operation between local self-government and state administration is very important for the development of municipalities and cities and brings the best to the local population. This government has shown that it is working best with local self-government and that all its activities are aimed at improving the living conditions of our citizens. Many positive examples of responsible work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, many projects that strengthen our country daily in all fields. I'm going to mention one very important thing for the Palilu municipality and the city of Belgrade, where I come from, which is the construction of an industrial park in Borca. This industrial park will extend to about 300 hectares, and the value of construction is 320m euros. It will be built by a Chinese company that built the largest industrial park in the world, in the city of Sudjou. Over a thousand innovative companies are expected to enter this industrial park and employ 10,000 new jobs directly and indirectly to as many as 40,000 jobs. Already 40 of China's strongest innovative companies have signed a memorandum that they want to come and do business in this industrial park to be built. This is the best way to hire our young engineers, scientists and innovators to stay in their town and start their families here. The development of infrastructure opens new jobs, retains the population and strengthens local self-government across our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39576	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Vera Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39577	Thank you, Your Honor. In accordance with the discussion of the previous two days on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I submit an amendment to Article 1 of the same Act. A unit of local self-government and its bodies and services, as well as undertakings, institutions and other organisations whose founder is co-operated and co-operated with other units of local self-government and its bodies and services in areas of common interest and for the purpose of their implementation, may pool funds and educate joint bodies of undertakings, institutions and other organisations and institutions in accordance with law and statutes. My township Rakovica is an example of such co-operation with local self-government, Belgrade, where the local self-government granted permission to a foreign investor to build a capital park market centre on land that once belonged to the Record rubber plant, which is about 30m euros in the first phase alone. There are 450 workers working at the centre today, mostly from the Rakovica municipality. And in the second phase, whose final work is scheduled for 2019, new workers are scheduled to be hired. In voting day, I ask my fellow Members to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39578	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. Here you go, Dr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39579	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, in Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which is being amended in Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, paragraph 2, is added, with the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration, provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of medical centres. The amendment I have submitted further defines the co-ordination of local self-government and state administration regarding the development of health care for Serbian citizens. Local self-government is the founders of primary health care institutions, which are of particular interest to each local self-government, and the degree of their development primarily depends on the established level of co-operation of local self-government, with the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state administration and competent ministries. The previous regime left us with a completely unsettled, materially, technically, even humanely unsecured, with huge debts, with inadequate equipment, ruined, abandoned facilities of most of the homes of health in local self-government. That's the situation in Somboro. Since 2012, the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our President, Aleksandra Vukic, has done everything in its power to bring the health care system to the level of developed countries. Looking at what has been done since 2012 until today, I must say that our government is doing it very successfully. The priority of this government and SNS is that every man in Serbia has a decent and decent life, which can only be achieved if a man is healthy and able to work and contribute to the existence of his family, the development of the economy and the environment in which he lives. Furthermore, the development of healthcare and successful co-operation with local self-government certainly ensure the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, which we from the SNS are seeking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39580	Thank you, Dr. Granny. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39581	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that in Article 1 of this Bill, which is amended in Article 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, added a new position 2, which reads - through co-operation of local self-government with the state administration, provides overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving medical institutions. This amendment defines the coordination of local self-government and state administrations. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, on 21 June 2013, is the day that the majority of Turkey will remember as the day when the SNS, taking responsibility for the future of Cuprije, has stopped the economic, economic, security, cultural and every other Sunflower of the Tupri municipality. The municipality was devastated, without investments, without practical employment opportunities, over-indebted by loans, unpaid obligations, numerous lost court disputes, blocked by the health home, blocked by local communities, blocked public enterprises, no public building land for construction of an industrial zone, no factories, no theatre and film shows, with schools and kindergartens in which no investments had been made since 2000, with destroyed and unexposed traffic, with ruined sidewalks, with abandoned parks. Unfortunately, Mupria reminded her of a forgotten city or an unlit tunnel on the road between Jagodina and Paracino. However, with unselfish help, advocacy and understanding of our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS Municipal Committee in Cupria, together with the municipality's leadership and the president of the municipality, Mr. Ninoslav Eric, is making a great effort to look at all the problems in the authorities of the administration, public enterprises, social, cultural, sports and cultural education institutions. After seeing the situation, the municipality's management is conducting financial and staff reforms, rationalising and transforming public enterprises. Turkey is today a liquid municipality in which the budget is increasing year by year, the level of public debt is reduced below 10% of the municipality's budget. All obligations of the municipality and its budget beneficiaries have been paid, creating all necessary preconditions for further economic development of the municipality. The co-operation of local self-government with the state administration provides for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the promotion and medical institutions. And the SNS MPs' club will vote for this bill in voting day, and I call on colleagues and fellow MPs to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39582	Thank you. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Ivana Stojljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39583	Thank you. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so if local elections are usually the best indicator of someone's work and how a particular political party has done its job and if this is an indicator of how citizens are satisfied with the work of political parties, then the elections in Belgrade have best shown who did and whose results are. DS members and the disintegrated opposition remained below the census. For the first time in 25 years, they found themselves under censorship, and this is an indication that citizens are very well aware of the state in which we found the city of Belgrade when we took over four years ago, what we had in it was the debt of a billion and 200m euros and 15 billion that the long city of Belgrade had towards maternity and other social contributions. We have had major problems that we have faced both problems and shortages of water and sewerage, elemental infrastructure problems, what affects the everyday life of citizens in Belgrade. We've all started to work it out. We've done a lot in four years. Large infrastructure projects have been launched and citizens have assessed in local elections for the city of Belgrade the work of SNS and its leadership as excellent, where we have received an absolute majority. As for the results of the Belgrade municipalities, we have won in 15 of Belgrade's 17 municipalities, of course. They also talked about how they cared about the village. Here, I was with my colleague Aleksandr Markovic and Jelena Žarić Kovacevic a few days ago in the municipality of Ljubovija and in the municipality of Mali Zvornik. That's where we visited the surrounding villages, talked to the people who live there. The former regime's members have never come to any village to talk to people. They were not interested in the problem of any man, the only thing they cared about, when it comes to local self-government, is how to solve their personal problems. To us from the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, local self-government is a service of citizens, not an opportunity for us to gain some benefit for one of us individually. Of course, opposition to various blockades, strikes and other so-called. In spontaneous organization, he's thinking about reruns, he's thinking about going back to the old ones. Unfortunately, they don't have that rerun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39584	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39585	Thank you, Chairman. Investment policy and economic stability are crucial to Serbia's progress and development, and this is a policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment I have made points to the fact that through the co-operation of local self-government contained in the first as a result achieves overall development and financial stability. Unlike those who have closed factories across Serbia, fired workers, President Vukic is working to bring new investors, create new factories to maintain macroeconomic and financial stability and make progress in implementing structural reforms to encourage rapid growth, create new jobs and raise living standards. If we look back a few years, we will see that bringing investors into Serbia is open to over 90 factories, which tells us about the fact that cities and municipalities are wide open and interested in economic growth, which means that the government's policy course follows and that they co-operate with the state administration. The data tells us that about 80% of Serbia's cities and municipalities have a development strategy, which means it has long-term economic development plans. Also, a large number of local self-governments have formed a local and economic development office that has the role to play a part in creating and implementing a strategy and caring for the needs of the existing economy and potential investors. The Municipality of Grocka, where I live, is one of the municipalities that has developed a sustainable growth strategy for the period 2017 to 2021, which has shown that it is deeply interested in economic growth and development, that it is open to a new investment of investments, but also to direct communication with citizens in order to ensure better and easier life. I am proud to say that the coming of the SNS to power, thanks to the tireless work of municipal leadership, has quickly begun to follow all reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the last 20 years, she's been neglected, but in the last six years, it's been invested a lot. Projects that are being implemented are of great importance to the lives and standards of citizens. Construction of infrastructures has been launched, business is being launched, skating sites are being rehabilitated, water supply and sewerage networks are being improved. It invests intensively in the development of education, two primary schools have been reconstructed, and new schools will be built in Lestane. New health stations have been built and are constantly invested in the reconstruction of infrastructure that has never been maintained, so the need for recovery, reconstruction and construction is enormous and necessary. Therefore, the proactive co-operation of local self-government with the state administration as a goal has been achieved that local self-government has seen that it is necessary to have a vision of the future, to translate it into a strategic document and to recognise what separates them from the competition of other municipalities, as well as to establish a structure within the administration that will take care of the implementation of the objectives outlined. Such planning and co-operation of local self-government with the state administration achieves economic growth and development that contributes to Serbia's financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39586	Thank you. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39587	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. Local self-government is key to ensuring quality infrastructure conditions for attracting foreign investment. It is undeniable that macroeconomic stability is provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the key role of the arrival of foreign investors is certainly the role of our President Aleksandr Vukic, who has opened many factories and plants in many of our cities in Serbia. That's what we saw yesterday in Krushevec. A new plant has opened up to employ 2.5 thousand people. New places are growing. In Serbia, 176 thousand people were employed. It makes local self-government a safe place for our citizens' lives. Incomes generated from labour taxes serve local self-governments to develop local infrastructure. We'll keep opening factories, hiring people and removing all obstacles to development and work. We'll remain an open country for everyone who wants to invest and work in it. We're not going to stop with the incentives, because money creates money, our President Alexander Vukic said yesterday at the opening of the plant in Kruševec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39588	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jovica Jevtic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zarko Bogatinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague of the Bogatinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39589	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the town of Leskovac slowly leader in southern Serbia in economic, sociological, cultural and economic development. Being a leader means being the first in everything, including accepting and implementing good parliamentary practice, i.e. the introduction of an e-parliament system. The e-parliament system is a project to introduce a software system for working with documentation and electronic session management in the work of local self-government. Talks with UNDP and the town of Leskovac on the implementation of this project began in October 2016. The city of Leskovac has entered a UNDP pilot project that includes software production, hardware procurement and the coordination of rules of procedure with expert supervision of experts, university professors, law school, consultants, otherwise UNDP consultants. The electronic parliament consists of a system for managing parliamentary documentation designed to make parliaments more efficient and improve the quality of information. There are four main advantages of the electronic document management system: saving money, consistency of the process, easier access to information and increased security. The total value of the e-parliament system is 182,000 euros. The participation of the town of Leskovac in the project, related to the purchase of equipment for the conference system and value, is about 34 000 euros, representing 18% of the total value. Document management systems reduce costs by eliminating the need to print, transport and store paper documents and significantly reducing the time to find relevant documents. The specific savings of the town of Leskovec are about four million dinars per year for printing a document for the work of parliament, which means that already in the first year of application of this system, the funds invested will be returned. The system means the electronic vote of the board with electronic reports and is similar to the electronic system applied here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The system means and monitoring sessions, sitting material in electronic form through electronic units installed in front of each committee in the Assembly Hall. The committees will also be able to use the address system from the site or from the pay phone. The full work of the system will be controlled by the President of the Assembly and his deputy through the central console's electronic device. The work of the electronic system will be based on this Rules of Procedure, which will monitor the change and way of running the city's session in a way that provides for the e-parliament. The deadline for the implementation of the e-parliament project in the City of Leskovec Assembly is September 2018, when all the city's committees will be able to undergo training and learn about the work and application of this system at the beginning of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39590	Thank you, colleague Bogatinović. You're always a really good promoter of your work. I have to notice. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39591	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the co-operation of local self-government with the state administration is certainly in the function of economic development, but respect for the law in local self-government is in the function of economic development. I will set an example here of a municipality that is in the column of these few who are heading towards the European Commission to complain about the rights in Serbia and that Serbian citizens will not vote for them. You have an example of the Municipality of Cajetin, a pearl in the legal traffic of a local self-government, where the president of the municipality, Mr Milan Stamatovic, at one point empowered himself to be the head of the municipal administration even though he had been educated as a metallist. I hold the document - the President of the Municipal Council Milan Stamatovic is empowered to manage all the affairs and duties of the municipality administration of Cajetin until the appointment of the head of public advertising, signed by Milan Stamatović. Imagine a president of the SNS municipality did this. Whether there's a medium, an organization, and I don't count anyone else who wouldn't jump and live wouldn't have stayed alive, if he did, and they say something like this, even though it's media dark, it can't possibly come out of sight, a document like this. Meanwhile, as head of the municipal administration, he signs some building permits for thousands of squares of construction on Zlatibor. Imagine those coincidences. With respect to all the metallostrics, when you inform him that you should have completed the Faculty of Law, passed the exam for working in state authorities, five years of working experience, he immediately complains about the persecution of political inexperiences, and then I hate Alexander Vukic, and then his family. This team that's starting to complain to the European Commission, put that CV of its work in the folder. Here's one example from Chaetin, and there's another example. Public procurement has been expelled from Chajetina a long time ago. Well, Mr. Paunovic can put in a project of that well, which was paid millions, only they haven't found any water in it yet. Well, he can take it to the European Commission to show the model of employment for leasers. Well, a gentleman from Capca can bring a confession to the European Commission that he was buying votes. They offered themselves as part of the chaos that they made and the raspberries, offered to visit them and give them a speech. An honest gentleman told me, he asked me to tell them that they could come but to pick up raspberries at his place and give them the biggest diaries, but he clearly doubted that they would come because he said they were used to stealing for much bigger diaries. And when they go into this column to the European Commission, make sure that the documentation, just the one I've listed, bring, let them give to the European Commission, they'll read it and it won't be hard for them to answer why the people are getting weaker and weaker for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39592	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39593	Ladies and gentlemen, many legislative regulations and normative acts in the Republic of Serbia regulate the functioning of different levels of government. This law that we are discussing today, i.e. the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Administration, essentially serves to make the functioning of different levels of government in the Republic of Serbia as transparent as possible. One of the key laws that defines functioning is certainly the Law on the Budgetary System, which precisely defines the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at all decisions and all the normative acts that define the functioning of these institutions, then you can understand that it is a very precise and clearly defined role of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Budget, you can understand that it is the role of the Fiscal Council, but at the same time the Law on the Budgetary System as a single decision defining the fiscal system is defined and the role of local administration is defined and the role of local parliaments is defined, the role of the Local Budget Committee is defined and certainly defined by the adoption of the local budget. The republican budget and local budgets are an integral part of the macroeconomic order of the Republic of Serbia and primarily serve to define the cost of the general state. If you have macroeconomic parameters that are governed by fiscal policy by the Republic government and which show general growth and development of the Serbian state, then it is undeniable that we can realise that in recent years there is an increasingly pronounced and clearer definition of the efficient functioning of the budget of local self-government. You no longer have such large gestures in the functioning of local administrations and certainly changes that occur at the level of the general state contribute to the budgets of local administrations, namely the macroeconomic parameters, whose component and they, they, too, look much better than in the time before this government works.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39594	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, Professor. My lord.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39595	The chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members, for the sake of the public, just to say that this Article 1 on which I have submitted the amendment makes the continent from three amendments to the following members, which I will explain in the coming days, practically refers to a better legal and more precise definition of Article 1 in which the surplus words – the units of local self-government are deleted, and the meaning in fact becomes much clearer and quality. What I would particularly like to do under this amendment to Article 1 is to say again, here some MPs have mentioned local self-government in Kragujevac, and this is already a repeated attack with another aspect, which I will later say to Mayor Radomir Nikolic. For the sake of the public, it should be said that these attacks not only in the Assembly, but in recent days there have been media on the arrival of our president of the Executive Board in Kragujevac, many untrue speculations and attacks on the mayor, and in fact the main attack is on the SNS because these attacks on the mayor are trying to confuse citizens who vote and mistrust by using, which I do not say openly, which is Radomir Nikolic's son, former President Tomislav Nikolic. Why would he be handicapped now that his father was president? He is a person, he was elected to the mayor's election, and for the sake of the citizens to say because all kinds of stories, Radomir Nikolic is a hardworking, hardworking, managerial man, even the quiet, smooth, measured to listen to everyone, to find the right solution and to keep some calm. The other thing is that they are previous or some mayors, and they sometimes go through in the local environments, to use some expression from my youth, mangupice, not to say with manners and bar manners, so, as the people say, the mangas are capable, and whoever is working, valuable, shows calmness and value and results, doesn't show this manner of unbridled behavior gets other epithets. It's not like that. I'm a lot of years old, I've had a lot of experience in my life, and I think that this young man is an example of how one mayor should have the respect and the value and dedication of his business. The impact on SNS with ambiguity in Kragujevac is the answer – we are unique. There's one party. We try to solve the problems of previous work of the previous local self-government in the right way, and I think that's what we're doing. The second aspect mentioned twice here is that the mayor gave a diploma to Dragica Nikolic's foundation. Again, it is to challenge the appropriate revolt of citizens that it is family and that it deserves criticism and assault. For the sake of the public to say, this Dragica Nikolic foundation, past that park called in which not only I with my grandson, but many parents with children spend all day there from ten o'clock to nine o'clock, the park is full and that I am not talking about all the contents that have improved the quality of that children's entertainment. In addition to this park called, and of course there are state institutions, whether it will determine, and I do not believe that they will establish anything, the other aspect is to mention again the work of MPs who do not know here and the citizens, the Dragica Nikolic Foundation has equipped a complete maternity home in KC Kragujevac with an extra-body fertilisation department. Third thing, she transferred elevator funds to a pediatric children's clinic, a building that was built 40 years ago, and to this day there's no elevator. So these are the three humanitarian big things that cost a lot and deserve the right reward, not only because of Dragica Nikolic's foundation, but also for some future foundations and individuals who will want to invest in humanitarian, various activities, some of their own or raised money, and in this case, the state, however, has adequately returned to one symbolic diploma. I'm sure we knew there was going to be an attack, but it's not fair or fair that the effort at our bar, I speak for the help of the Foundation only at the level of Kragujevac, there's not at least a thank-you degree for that. So the city of local self-government that's being mentioned, and I'm going to end up always at the end of the year with clear indicators, visible results that have been made, will be able to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39596	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39597	I wanted to use Article 104 to replicate because my colleague before me spoke and commented on what I was saying and what Natasa Jovanovic was saying and nobody else in the hall. But well, it's your right to allow or not allow a replica, but I really need to use this member of the Rules of Procedure to say a few sentences. Now that we've been listening to a colleague who just talked about Radomir Nikolic, I wanted to suggest to Mr. Ružić that somehow, if he can introduce one amendment, or one new member of the local administration law, that all mothers who produce mayors get a degree. I don't know how else Dragica Nikolic earned that diploma. How the town of Kragujevac works, all the people who work in Kragujevac know it. All the institutions of the system know that. Which is why you will not now and perhaps want to remove Radomir Nikolic, that is your business, with you and the knife and the cake, but the town of Kragujevac is almost bankrupt. The town of Kragujevac is in charge of more than one city in Serbia and one municipality in Serbia. In the town of Kragujevac, Radomir Nikolic is bahanalised and is publicly available in public procurement, what he was getting, how many drinks, how much food. Radomir Nikolic concluded a contract with a bar, a restaurant located near the town's assembly, and the whole Kragujevac knows that he doesn't come to work, comes by around 11 o'clock, goes to that restaurant, and then the official driver takes him home in an official drunk car. The whole Kragujevac knows that. If that's what you're going to do for the mayor, cheers to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39598	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39599	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. It is indeed degutant to respond to such allegations. I understand the personal animosity towards Tomislav Nikolic and Radomir Nikolic and SNS, but believe me, anyone who knows Radomir Nikolic knows that he is a man who is not an alcoholic. No one's ever seen him drunk in his life... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Except the police. Well, you can make fun of everything now. You are not responsible for the management of the Kragujevac or for the leadership of the state. The parliament comes to you as a place where you have fun, but we who are participating in the conduct of the vast majority of local self-government in Serbia, who we are leading Serbia, know that what you just said is simply not true. We could open a wide discussion here right now about whether there is nepotism in your ranks. When I was once on your party, we excluded the presidents of the municipal committees from the party because their spouses or children were accidentally still on the municipal board or somewhere in the local government. Now, I see that this has become a family company for you, but I'm not going to do it. You yourself know what's best for your party and what's not. What I'm saying is that Radomir Nikolic, you thought of this man this or that, a decent man, a man who runs a city that was in big trouble. Those problems didn't make him, those problems didn't even make SNS. These problems have also been inherited from the time of Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, and before Veroljub Stevanović and you know it very well. The town of Kragujevac generated economic and financial commitments year after year. You can say that Radomir Nikolic does not do his job well or does it in your opinion well enough, but to come to the National Assembly and say that the whole Kragujevac knows, so here are the people of Kragujevac, here are the people of Šumadia, it is impossible for you from Zemun to know better what is going on in Kragujevac than the Kragujevacs and the Shumadins. To come to the National Assembly and say that the whole Kragujevac knows that Radomir Nikolic is driving a drunk home at noon, how can I tell you, it's extremely degutant, it's simple, and I don't think it really fits the reputation of the National Assembly, and I don't think it's appropriate for you or your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39600	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39601	Article 27. There have been a lot of findings here that don't like the head of the parliamentary group, but come on, I'll comment on them through the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the same way. Mr. Martinovic has been using this floscule of personal animosity for a long time, thinks that this way he's going to degrade or somehow lower the level of arguments we present because we have some personal animosities. We don't have personal animosities to anyone, we're just telling the truth and we're only telling what's the actual state. He says animosity to Tomislav Nikolic, we did not mention Tomislav Nikolic. Why did he mention Tomislav Nikolic with the drunkenness of Radomer Nikolic we really don't know, maybe he knows. So we didn't mention Father Radomir Nikolic at all. He told a colleague that our assembly is where we have fun. It is very offensive for both the Assembly and us, we are very serious and hardworking here, and those who have imposed these amendments that are discussed in this way are entertained, which is, of course, the ruling majority. Radomir Nikolic has done something that does not exist anywhere in Serbia, he has merged five public enterprises into a public enterprise, but not to save, but to dispel people who have done their job well and who know they are doing their job. Imagine, he hired an agency from Belgrade to work on the Systematization Regulation, Mr. Minister, almost as your tender, to run a systematization for the city administration in Kragujevac. That, too, I guess, is nowhere to be found. As for nepotism in the SRS, nepotism can't be about party organs. Nepotism is that in the same ministry the minister and member of the narrow family be one minister, another assistant, but... Please, my colleague Martinovic talked for three minutes, I'll only have ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39602	In the exact second when Mr. Martinovic, I say - you bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39603	Here, I'm bringing the end. We had serious problems in the party when we were the government in Ruma, when Aleksandar Martinovic hired his aunt who didn't meet the conditions, so we barely kept the board from falling apart, that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39604	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39605	Article 106. Here, I'm really not gonna answer for the word anymore. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to comment personally. She knows that's not true. You didn't mention, you say, Father Radomir Nikolic, you mention his mother, which I think is extremely inappropriate. As for the merger of public enterprises into one, well, it seems to me that, Mrs. Radeta, you haven't been in the SRS long enough. Branislav Blazic was the first to do so in 1998 in Kikinda when he served as minister in the Republic Government. So, what Radomir Nikolic did in Kragujevac is something that, I say, was a practice that existed at the time and while the SRS was unique and comprehensive, but you seem to have forgotten it. You're saying that Radomir Nikolic awarded some kind of medal or some kind of reward to his mother. Here, I ask you now – and when was it possible in the SRS for the father to be president of the parliamentary group, the son of an MP, and the second son of a municipal council member in the municipality in which Aleksandar Sapic is in power? At the time I was in the SRS, it wasn't possible. It's possible for you today. I didn't say you were all having fun here. There are many prominent people here among you, there are many serious people, there are people I still have great respect and respect, like Peter Jojic, like General Delic, like Sreta Peric, responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39606	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39607	But you have this manner, I end up with it, and I will never answer my word again, no matter what Mrs. Radeta says about me and Radomer Nikolic, about anyone else. But you have this manner that you resented Vojislav Seselj, remember back in 2008, that you are in the congregation convincing the gossip you heard in the cab or heard at the market and that you are declaring it as some God-given truth. And that caused huge damage to the SRS in the 2012 elections. You instead of taking some lessons out of it, you continue with such a policy. You have now put your own party in a position to have a smaller rating in 2018 than when the elections were two years ago. You've completely squandered the fact that the president of the party is no longer in The Hague tribunal, but is at large. And you just keep going, as far as I'm concerned, but trust me, it's not good for you, it's not good for your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39608	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39609	I'm speaking under Article 32. Of course, there's been a lot of rumors here that has absolutely nothing to do with the truth. Insisting or not, we Serbian radicals only bring the truth and only arguments and only evidence and proven things to the public. And all of Serbia knows it. What is and what is the rating of the parties, it is measured in the elections and there is no need for Mr. Martinovic to care about it, or anyone else from another party. As for nepotism and the sons of Vojislav Seselj, the health of God, will be officials, I am confident, both the third and fourth sons, and the grandkids. Well, what's more normal than the sons of Vojislav Seselj following the politics and ideology of the SRS and, of course, by their work, earning certain functions, certain places that belong to them based on what they deserve by working on the municipal board? You know, you are now comparing Vojislav Seselj and his sons with Tomislav Nikolic and his wife and the Foundation and sons. That's degutant. Tomislav Nikolic managed to push his friend Bačević for an ambassador to China just so that his younger son Branislav could coach a club in China, because it is well paid there. Of course, you say you mention the mother of Radomer Nikolic. No, I mention Dragic Nikolic, who has the Foundation, whose Foundation will be discussed by the competent authorities, at least so announced by the representatives of these authorities, and we will see how this has made Nikolic rich, from where so much money, that Tomislav Nikolic has used his political influence to pay unique funds to the Dragica Nikolic Foundation for millions of euros. It'll all, believe me, one day end up like the Foundation, let's say, those Katarina Rebrachets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39610	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39611	I'm bringing an end, of course, but I've got more than enough if you're giving the same time to anyone who's reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Don't have any different arches. As for the diploma received by Dragica Nikolic, a colleague earlier said she had received a degree, before reading that it was a confession. He's got something wrong. Tomislav Nikolic received a degree, and he never studied or graduated from college, and Dragica received some plaque from Radomer, the Placette of St. George, is not one but specifically there. There.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39612	I did not ask, nor will I ask if you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day because all these were the replicas of a colleague to Martinovic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39613	To avoid any confusion, Tomislav Nikolic won that famous diploma in 2007, and then the SRS ran for president in 2008. If there was anything controversial about his degree, it's strange that one such man was running to be President of the Republic. But I don't want to do that, it's political history. You say, and you say well, the people will judge in the elections. There were elections this year, so analyze the results of the Belgrade elections. I think you'll be clear after that. To get me back to a much more serious subject. The amendment I have made concerns the co-operation of the local self-government unit and the state administration in security structures, i.e. when it comes to strengthening security structures. This topic is today in Serbia, unfortunately, I must say, very current. You remember about a month ago, it's not even a month ago, about twenty days ago, in Russia, there was a topic of murder, allegedly murder of a journalist named Arkadi Babchenko. Many media from Ukraine, many media from the West, and some media in Russia, have accused Vladimir Putin of killing Arkadi Babchenk, so that the next day, if I am not mistaken, on 31 May 2018, he would have appeared at a press conference in Kiev and said he had practically staged his murder on the orders of certain secret services, so as not to cause political harm to Vladimir Putin and the Russian Federation, because he had written negatively about Russian intervention in Syria on Russian aid to Bashar El Assad in the fight against the Islamic state. Today, the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic held a press conference and informed all Serbian citizens, informed all media that a journalist from the White Church Stefan Cvetkovic had not been killed, had not been kidnapped, that nothing bad had happened to him, that the man was alive and healthy, and the investigation would show who was behind the intention that Aleksandar Vucic, that the interior ministry, that the BIA would be accused of allegedly killing, i.e. the alleged disappearance of Stefan Cvetkovic. Now I have to ask, I'm sorry these gentlemen aren't present right now, what about the comments they made about Mr. Cvetkovic's disappearance? Sasa Radulovic, on her Twitter account, says, "Stefan Cvetkovic was a journalist investigating Oliver Ivanovic's murder, receiving information almost and exclusively from Albanian counterparts. A few days ago, he returned from Kosovo where they had him," he said, "maltrate at the crossing". It makes it clear that Alexander Vukic is behind the disappearance of Cvetkovic. Former Citizens' Protector and failed presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic publishes the following sentences on Twitter at 12.19 p.m. today: "Who killed Olivera Ivanovic? Where's journalist Stefan Cvetkovic? “ Tomorrow, i.e. Saturday, at 12 o'clock, a group of our activists will ask these questions in front of the Serbian presidency in Pioneer Park and we will do so further. Join your questions, pioneer park will be small soon. So much for the spontaneity and for the citizens to gather themselves, etc. Here, there's no need tomorrow, and it's bad weather, it's raining, that Sasa Jankovic is struggling to come before the Serbian presidency today, Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic -- he's alive and well Stefan Cvetkovic, he's not missing anything, he's just going to have to go to the Bureau of Criminal Police to explain who kidnapped him, who killed him, so today he shows up alive and healthy in the wider White Church area. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, June 15th at 13.35 p.m., this woman does not seem to follow the media regularly, says, "The murdered famous politician who was not in line with the regime has not been found." And then, "The missing journalist investigating the murder, also unfavorable by the regime." ‘Fires, calculations, jacks. Serbia has entered years of dangerous life" etc. These are all your tweets. One part of the Serbian opposition's leader, Sande Raskovic Ivić, has Vuk Jeremic, Sasa Jankovica, Sasa Radulovica, etc., who are trying to accuse Aleksandar Vukic and SNS of anything that is bad in Serbia, even when it does not happen, and they claim it has happened. Why am I saying this, Mr. Minister? Because it is obvious that Serbia is creating an atmosphere where Serbia should kneel to its knees and in which Serbia needs to weaken from the difficult times ahead of us, above all, ahead of continuing negotiations with Pristina and resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Someone keeps trying to push aside all the good things that happen in Serbia. Someone is persistently trying to hide from citizens the fact that at the end of April 2018 we had a public debt of less than 59% of GDP, which is below the level of Mastricht. Someone is constantly trying to hide from citizens the fact that in the last four years alone in Serbia we have opened 150 new factories, that we have opened tens of thousands of new jobs without closing any factories and that we have not carried out any robbery privatisations. There's a homeless campaign going on. Now it's not enough for them to run a campaign from the National Assembly because, you know, in the National Assembly, you still have to sit down. I had a controversy with a colleague a little while, there were harsh words and disagreements, but I can't admit the fact that the lady is actually sitting in the National Assembly defending her political attitudes and I'm taking her hat off. But you have one part of the Serbian opposition that doesn't sit in parliament, sits for an hour or two, then hates them to continue fighting in parliament and then political fight against the authorities in Serbia is being transferred to the Council of Europe's field. Of course, he doesn't do it, if you don't think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which the people would say, by their own mind, he's doing it by someone's instruction. Sasa Paunovic, president of the Paracin municipality, accuses the country's own country of allegedly choking, he says, local democracy in Serbia. Why? Just because the citizens of Parachin municipality initiated signing for his shift. That, according to him, is enough reason to defamation the state of Serbia that apparently there is no local democracy in Serbia and he addressed the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, which otherwise he is sitting in, which, who was understood rightly, is an illicit phenomenon, so that you decide for yourselves your own appeal. But be careful, take care of the symbolism. The symbol, according to historian Veselin Djuretic, plays a very important role in Serbian history. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, which will discuss Sasa Paunovic's appeal for the alleged asphyxiation of local democracy in Serbia, is scheduled right on Vidovdan, 28 June 2018. If someone tells me it's an accident, then I'm going to ask him – and is it by any chance that Slobodan Milosevic was delivered to The Hague tribunal, of course, without any legal basis, just on June 28th, so just on Vidovdan in 2001? Next, the roadblock of course is not spontaneous, of course it was organized by the leaders of the so-called. civil and so-called. Pro-European opposition Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Sasa Jankovic and similar. Do you think the two-day campaign against the city of Belgrade and the mayor of Belgrade is accidental, that the reportedly water in Belgrade has been poisoned? The President of the Republic today said at a press conference that at least eight people were involved in that dirty campaign. As for the co-operation of local self-government and state administration, when it comes to strengthening security structures, I have to remind you of another phenomenon that some seem to have forgotten. Do you remember those winter protests of the Together Coalition in 1996 and 1997, due to alleged electoral theft? At that time, protesters from November 1996 until the beginning of March 1997, then accused Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Djindjic of betraying him, Djindjic accused Draskovic of going to the canoe first, Vuk accused Djindjic of blowing whistles and pots from November 1996 to March 1997. Later, it turned out that it was not their idea, but that one foreign embassy, on the orders of one foreign intelligence service, had told them that they were doing it because it was a recipe that had already been applied before in another country, where a regime that was unsuitable had to be torn down. When under pressure from the EU leadership at the time, remember that delegation led by Filipe Gonzales, when Milosevic admitted the results of the election and when they enthroned, as they called themselves then, the mayors of the free cities in Serbia, you wonder why Zoran Zivkovic burned electricity bills in the barrel and urged the citizens of Nis to do so? For one reason many have forgotten, not because of an empty barrel alone, Mr Risticevic, the EU then introduced a programme, a project called – energy for democracy and while other citizens in Serbia froze and suffered winter and so on, cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nisa, where Zoran Zivkovic was and so on, received a free mule to show it, or to encourage the opposition forces to continue to fight even stronger against the then government. I'm not surprised by the EU, it was their policy back then, but imagine that hypocrite? Imagine how small you need to be to accept that kind of help and, for example, to be. The citizens of Nis warm up because they received a mule from Brussels or another European city, and that citizens in Zajecar or Vranj are only frozen because they did not vote for the coalition Together. That's what these people who were supposed to be sitting here today across from us, those years were absolutely ready. Why am I saying all this? I apologize to my colleagues for making it too long, so that someone wouldn't think that all this was happening the last few days was an accident. There are no accidental roadblocks, nor is it by chance that he allegedly disappeared and found a journalist who allegedly investigated Oliver Ivanovic's murder. It is not a random complaint from Sasa Paunovic to be resolved just on June 28th at the Council of Europe. It is not by chance propaganda about poisoned water in Belgrade. It is not by chance a propaganda led against Marijan Risticevic, who is the biggest villain in Serbia because it opposes the ban on chinchilla cultivation, although chinchillas are grown in more than 30 countries in the world. Among other things, in the United States. So it's not all an accident. It's all about preparing for Serbia to get down on its knees. It is up to us not to let this happen, because if we allow those who ruined Serbia from 2000 to 2012, to return Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and similar to them, we will hardly ever be able to lift Serbia from the ashes again. This time it went hand in hand, but if the same ones who ruined Serbia return, I fear there will be no more future for Serbia, but I also hope that the citizens of Serbia understand well what is happening these days, that the citizens of Serbia understand well who is behind all this and that the citizens of Serbia will not allow those who led them to the edge of political, economic and social ruin, to return to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-15-0.u39614	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue on Monday, 10:00. Thank you.
