ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-0.u38273	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your Excellency, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 16th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address Mr. Andrej Danko's Excellency, president of the National Council of the Slovak Republic. I am honored to welcome Mr. Andrew Dank's Excellency on behalf of the National Assembly. In addition, I welcome other respected members of the National Council of the Slovak Republic delegation, also ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia attending today's session. Now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Andrey Dank to speak to us. Here's your Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-0.u38274	Dear gentlemen, National Assembly President Majo Gojkovic, honourable MPs, distinguished MPs, Excellency, dear Serbian brothers, Serbian citizens and our beloved Slovaks, are today writing a new chapter of Slovak-Serbian relations. It is a great honor for me to address you and welcome you on behalf of the Slovak Parliament, on behalf of the Slovak people and our national minorities. Over the long centuries, since our people's communities have inhabited areas under the port of Karpat and on the Balkan Peninsula, we have been joined by the great European river Danube, as well as the ancient Slovenian link when our ancestors together settled Central-South East Europe. Our fate is joined by two rivers of the same name, the same name of Morava. The northern one is today a symbol of the first state creation of the old Slovak Greater Sea Princess. The southern one has been a life supporter for the Serbian people for many years. The existence and creation of the Great Morava in the ninth century is a historic moment when a bond of common unity between the old Slovaks and Serbs began to form between the old Slovaks. Part of the historic first organised state-owned Slovenia, founded by our Slovenian ancestors, was also made up of Luži Serbs. Scholars of Thessaloniki, today's cartridges of Europe, Saint Cyril and Holy Methodius brought the first letter to the ancient Slovaks in 863 – Glagolitic. They educated and enlightened many Slovak nobles, of whom they became Christian apostles. They headed with Gorazd, the first Slovak bishop, brought in a letter and Christianity and southern Slovenians. At the turn of the ninth and tenth centuries, Serbia and Macedonia became a haven for students of St. Cyril and St. Methodius, and they had to flee from the Grand Sea principality. The most important Slovak scholars and emigrants were the Holy Clement of Ohrid and Saint Naum. On the shores of Lake Ohrid, a monastery was established in which St. Clement founded a literary school. Thanks to that school, Ohrid has become the most important centre of culture and education in southern and eastern Europe. Your Serbian ancestors, and thanks to the Ohrid school, have made the letter simple and use Cyrillic to this day in your ordinary life. In order for us to understand the present and at the same time rationally design the future, we need to know our national history. This knowledge must not be a reason for national blindness and egoism. History is supposed to teach, but history doesn't need to live. Let us not then open up historical wounds and let us not transfer them as modern nations to the modern politics of the 21st century. We are nations who have suffered a great deal, we are nations who have fought a great deal for their national creations, but we have a greater heart and we are more heartier toward our national minorities. As Slovenian peoples, we know that we forgive, even those who hurt us often help us. I consider Serbs and Slovaks proud and self-aware peoples. We proved that not only once, and during the long Muslim occupation, when the Turks broke into Europe. I want to bow down to the courage of the Serb people who at the time protected the rest of Europe in the battle in the Kosovo field in 1389. The end of the Serb warriors stood also for Slovak warriors who came to help from Hungary. The Serbs, despite strong Turkish oppression, have not surrendered and have preserved their national identity. I'll always say that at home. You were the first to defend Europe from attacks and protect our religion, our values and our culture. That's what respect and honor belong to you. The protection of Christianity and other European values cost a lot of Serbian people. The devastated parts of Vojvodina since 1690 have been gradually inhabited by the Slovaks. You received them with love, open arms and friendship. That's why in the name of these Slovaks, I bow to your hospitality. Rarely, which people have kept far from their native homeland and far from the territory of the national minority from where their language came from, and you had that size that you managed to preserve their language and now the Slovaks are the third most numerous nationality in that northern part of Serbia. Let me now welcome my beloved countrymen from Petrovec, Kovačica and Bačko Petrovec, who are the seats of Slovak culture and language, who were preserved today. My fellow countrymen, my beloved Slovaks, I want to bow to you, to your strength, to praise your beautiful Slovak language that you have preserved, to your traditions, to your art, to your culture, to your dances and games, we are very proud of you. I want to thank the Republic of Serbia for its sincere efforts to preserve the Slovak national minority. Also, I want to thank you for the support our national community gets from the Serbian state. I am convinced that the duchy Slovaks are loyal citizens of Serbia. As the representative of Slovakia's oldest political party, I am proud of the vitality and respect our countrymen have kept the folk traditions of their ancestors far from their country of origin. Zuska Medvedjove gallery, the Slovakia queen in Serbia, the Vojvodjanski Slovak Museum, the Slovak publishing centre and the Naive Art Gallery in Kovacica are a living example of all this. Let me thank the National Council of the Slovak National Minority for the worthy political and social representation of Slovakia. I would be glad if the Serbians' positive attitude towards the Slovaks remained in the future. Slovaks are a permanent part of the state of Serbia. Serbian-Slovakia relations were at a very good level at the time of enlightenment. The first four directors of the first Serbian high school in Sremski Karlovci were scholars in Slovakia, Andrej Volna, Jangros, Pavel Magda and Carlo Rumi. In Serbia, Paul Jozef Shafarik, the first director of Serbian high school in Novi Sad, worked and famous Slovaks. Serbian industriousness and your pride, they were admired by our people's educators at the time of the folk's rebirth in the middle of the 19th century. You've always been our support, you've always been our brothers who were always ready to help us. A great help to the Slovak People's Movement, which led Ljudevit Stur and Joseph Miroslav Hurban during 1848 and 1849, provided them with this great help, precisely their Serbian friends. In addition to Serbian volunteers who actively participated in the fight for Slovak independence, Slovak volunteer units also supported Serbian nobles by supplying arms and military financing. The closeness and mutual understanding between our two nations proves resistance to the Habsburg oppression. Since 1914, Serbs have had to defend themselves against huge aggression by Habzburgs whose conquerive ambitions pushed the whole world into World War I. In this, the Slovaks expressed solidarity with the Serb people during the 71-minute infantry regiment in the Serbian town of Kragujevac. In Trench or so-called. The police regiment was dominated by sympathy for Serb rebels, so-called. Comedians in the town of Kragujevac. In early June 1918, they refused to enter the front and rebelled against Austrian leadership. The result of the military rebellion, which was one of the biggest insurrections in World War I history, was the execution of 44 Slovak soldiers. These days, it ends exactly 100 years after that event. In honor of their memory, I sincerely want to welcome the citizens of Kragujevac and thank you for the respect that they are still giving after such a long period of time. It is a shame that the Yugoslav peoples, as we called them, were divided. In that sense, I would like to warn the fact that Serbs and Slovaks are nevertheless very close Slovenian peoples. We have a lot in common, and that is why it is necessary today to intensify our communication and to share much more experience and learn from each other. We don't live in easy times. We live in times of egotism, selfishness, a period when information destroys human relationships. We should be able to get a team to assess the information we're getting. We live in a dangerous time and in a dangerous time for our children. Let's do everything we can to get over our problems honestly. Let's do everything we can to make our children think of peace as something that is meant. We fight cynicism, evil, evil. Let's name the problems and look for solutions. We Slovaks live in the heart of Europe. I often say that the very fact that we live in the heart of Europe gives us a higher degree of empathy. We respect all European peoples, but yet Slovenian peoples are closest to us. That's why I think the time has come for Slovenian peoples to communicate and cooperate more with each other. Slovak diplomacy and our soldiers have proven many times that we can. In the peace forces, we're not attack nations, but if anyone reaches out to something of our own, we know we're defending ourselves. The Serbian people survived a difficult period. We felt and felt with you. The position of the Republic of Slovakia on resolving the AP Kosovo and Metohija remains equal and principled. As one of the few states, we refused to recognise Kosovo's independence, and the Slovak stance does not change, nor will it change. If there is a place to solve the problems of the Kosovo population, in which case it is Belgrade. In this regard, we equally support open and pragmatic dialogue. First of all, I appreciate your open and constructive dialogue. I have been very detailedly informed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, by the Prime Minister, above all by my colleague about how Serbia has been acting before us. The international community, however, must be more fair to Serbia. The Slovaks are prepared and ready to assist the Slovenian brotherly people, as well as others in the Balkans. This is also our obligation to the Serbian brotherly people of the past, who have helped us in countless cases. You have the ambition to enter EU structures. The integration process is very complex. In this regard, we offer you assistance on one side of our experiences from accession negotiations and our experiences as a full member of the EU. If you're going to come in, you have to decide for yourself. What we can give you is our experience and the mistakes we made in this process. I assure you that Slovakia will continue to provide you with consistent support regarding EU enlargement. If the Serbs so decide, they should be one of the first nations to enter the community. We certainly respect your free will. In the long term, at the head of a group where we will chair the Visegrad Group since July of this year and at other meetings of European leaders, we say that it is you who should be the ones to remove injustice, it is you who should be the one to be the first. The EU countries will lead to more support for Serbia. Unpreparedness to an active approach in this process is not acceptable to us. I am convinced that all countries that want to become members should have a fair approach and if they certainly meet the previously specified criteria. EU membership in Slovakia has brought a wide range of different opportunities and thanks to participation in the euro area, we have also made progress in many areas. The Republic of Slovakia celebrates this year's 25th anniversary of its statehood. We are an old Slovenian people who, however, have very little of their own country for which we have fought for a long time and thus rather want to preserve this country, to develop it, starting with our historical experience that only in a short period now we manage our own destiny. Sure EU membership is a very important and important decision. It is a very vital project that requires reforms and has its own mistakes. The benefits of the Schengen are undeniable. The benefits of collective security are even more important. I would, however, like to warn you of the shortcomings, which we Slovaks made when we joined the EU. Please save more your water, your land, your minerals, or natural wealth. Do not be afraid to include these elements in your constitution. If you open, expect reciprocity from the other side. Save your brands, protect your national identity, protect your people. Don't be afraid of social reform. Don't be afraid to look, gain insight into Western labour laws. If I was talking about 13 and 14 salaries in countries like Portugal, it's something quite common. Some of my citizens in Slovakia thought I was out of my mind. We have also managed to introduce 13 and 14 salaries, which are not yet mandatory, but are exempt from taxes and contributions. I commended myself to a very proud Austrian colleague, who was my surprise when I heard from him that Austria knew both 15 and 16 salaries. These are the phenomena of the social system. These are the specifics relating to annual vacations, hot meal stamps and the like. Follow these trends because this should become a natural component of the Labour Act that preserves the rights of our employees in the future. As the states of the Visegrad Group, we fought and opened the topic of food quality. We fought that if we buy a product that is equally marked it has the same structure and quality. First they laughed at us, but my political party managed to open this topic at the government level and at the level of the Visegrad Group and at EU level today. The European Commission is now no longer saying that it is not true. We are citizens of the same category, but we must fight for these rights. I'm honestly talking about things I want to talk to you about today, which can be overcome. The European Union is a unique project and is worth working on, it is worth developing. You've done a huge job. In 25 years we have experienced dynamic changes, changes and today I can say that the Republic of Slovakia is one of the few Eastern European countries of the former who have the euro, which produces the most cars compared to the population and has a whole series of still open things to change towards our citizens. We're talking about changes in wages, we're talking about a lack of labour. We are also talking about another significant problem, which is the problem of a fragmented political scene. It's not only Slovakia's problem. That's Europe's problem. The more time goes by, the harder it is to put the government together. Less responsible politicians come to power. It's enough to have one false news that comes at the right time before the election and that helps entities who, for example, have no political headquarters, no program, only have a manager, a leader who wants to be popular, and then it's hard to run the country. Be careful to preserve your constitutionality, the free competition of political parties and to continue to develop these areas, of course, with negotiations on EU accession. Some people don't like it at home. However, I say that it is we, the Slovenian peoples, despite being members of the EU, that we must have good relations both east and west and north and south. I see this reasonable approach in your politics. We Slovaks consider Serbs an integral part of our social life. We are glad that our long-term relationships are strong and stronger. Of course, new weather, modern weather brings a whole series of phenomena. Many Serbs come to Slovakia, many Serbs remain to work. It is very important for us Slovaks to see this phenomenon. We're going to do everything in the direction that this interlink we've felt in the past centuries, that it's being realized today towards your citizens in our country. It's not always simple. The Slovak people will always stand by their southern brothers and I believe it will be mutually mutual. Regardless of the political situation, let us never forget that, first of all, we humans have a common goal of making the world a better place. We are Slovenian and so together let us preserve and develop our Slovenian world. The Slovenian world is unique and exceptional. We Slovenians don't understand the surface, the insensitiveness, the poignantness. Unfortunately, these qualities are in fashion today. Our strength, however, is that we have a great heart. Sometimes it hurts very much, but to you Serbs, I don't think I have to talk about how many times in history you've had to get up. I know you're rising and you'll rise again after such a difficult time and you'll be strong. I want it and I want it for you. I thank you for your trust and for the honor of performing in your Parliament. This is the greatest honor a democratic people can show. You couldn't respect the Republic of Slovakia any more than what you did, that I could expose myself to you. As I said at the outset, the goal of my presentation was to thank you for the centuries of brotherly relations. Also, to express Slovakia's willingness to help you and to return to you what you've done for us for centuries. There are great challenges ahead of us, and by the EU we need to talk about improving the functioning of the EU, migration, social issues that I have already talked about, as well as other issues. I want, however, to overcome this within Europe because only the common forces, the wise European elites and the representatives of the states, can we compete with the world's powers. The business world is ruthless. There's no trader who doesn't want the euro back when he lends you the euro. Be careful. As I said before, many times in history we got up, we helped each other and I would like to stand by each other and in modern Europe. I wish Serbia only success and progress. I also want peace for Serbia's families. You know you respect this word most in Europe. I wish you peace, good friendship, family relations. I wish you honest progress. You deserve it. Dear Serbs, representatives of national minorities, let me finally greet you in your language – God bless Serbia and thank you friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-07-0.u38275	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr. Andrej Dank, the President of the National Council of the Slovak Republic for his address. In these words, I conclude the 16th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you for attending the session.
