ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall and I find that we have conditions for our further work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you could see, for the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 11th Assembly, were appointed the following Dn e v e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts; 2. Proposal for a Financial Security Act; 3. Proposal for a law on interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions on the basis of payment cards; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on payment services; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act; 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Other programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Providing support to state-owned financial institutions) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing for the Second Serbia Health Development Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 11. Proposal for a decision on the selection of four members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in remoteting, Proposal for a Law on Financial Security, Proposal for a Law on Interbank Compensation and Specific Rules of Business in Payments Based on Payment Cards, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Exchanges and Supplements to the Law on Economic Affairs and Public Enterprises, Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of the Bank, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Other Programmes for Development Policy in the field of Public Expent and Public Enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia's Health and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia (Prof. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. ) (Marko Djurisic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37667	Thank you, President. Who knows which path I ask of you that you cannot and do not put this proposal to a vote, a statement before the Assembly, since it does not comply with Article 157(2)? Rules of Procedure. The 2nd position says the National Assembly can decide to carry out a joint principled search under several draft laws on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or interlinked. Of these 11 points of the agenda, I absolutely, reading, can't find any connection between, say, the draft law on financial security and the bill on bankruptcy, and with them the draft law on the approval of loans for the reconstruction of facilities in health care, and in particular the link with the appointment of four members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I don't know which way to dissuade the work of the Assembly in this way, uniting into a joint discussion of points that simply can't be united by the Rules of Procedure. What, unfortunately, this practice has consequences is that the Council of Europe has found that Serbia has failed to meet any of the 13 commitments undertaken to combat corruption reduction. One of the obligations that parliament has under this request of the Council of Europe is to remind you that the practice of passing the law under emergency procedure is not used. Today, we have five laws on the agenda from the National Bank of Serbia, which, apparently, infected with the government's virus, sent laws Monday from 22nd to discuss them today, and the government sent laws Monday to discuss them today. I think it's bad and don't blame and accuse the Council of Europe and other international bodies that realize that there is no transparent and democratic work in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37668	I would like to put to the vote a proposal to bring together the agenda points, as proposed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, in accordance with Article 92(2). Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – nine, with abstention – no, no vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I respect the opinion of the Council of Europe. We will do everything to make the next report even better than this one, but we do not need to ignore the fact that recently, according to the report for work in 2017, all Parliaments of the Member States of the Interparliamentary Union, Serbia and our Parliament have been chosen as the best example of practice in the transparency of labour and law-making, so we have two conflicting opinions. We will try to make both reports equally good for our parliament next year. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by the governor of the NBS, Dr Jorvanka Tabakovic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Zoran Djordjevic, as well as co-workers from the relevant ministries and the NBS. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in distance; Proposal for a Law on Financial Security; Proposal for a Law on Interbank Compensation and Specific Rules of Business in Payments on Payments Based Cards; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Exchanges and Supplements to the Law on Economic Enterprises; Proposal for an Agreement on Loans (Other Programme for Development Policy in the field of Public Expension and Public Enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Loan Agreement (Process of the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's Law on the Republic of Serbia's Law on Security and on the Republic of Serbia's Decision on the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? If they want to, let them sign up, you've got the cards. The word has the governor of the NBS, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37669	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, and especially respected citizens, it is my great pleasure to have the opportunity and honour to present in this House the laws we have proposed to the National Assembly today. Namely, in accordance with Article 107(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the NBS has the right to propose laws under its jurisdiction, the subject of today's debate alongside two government proposals will also be five laws proposed by the NBS. Before I move on to concrete explanations, I must respond to Mr. MP's remarks that he is not clear on the link between the draft law on financial security and amendments to the bankruptcy law. It is these two laws that are directly, interlinked and express my gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has made every effort to amend and supplement the law on bankruptcy that is changing only in the sense that the application of the Financial Security Act is possible and effective, and today we are also discussing the Financial Security Act, because it would not make sense without amending the Bank Act. He'd be inadmissible. It only changes in the part in which the Financial Security Act requires it. Today, we are discussing the proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services, on distance settlement, on the draft law on financial security, on the draft law on interbank fees and on the specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on payment services and on the amendment of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. The proposed legislative solutions are only part of the regulatory activities that the NBS continuously implements in order to improve the financial market in our country and achieve its objectives by law and always in the interest of those for which institutions and laws exist, which are citizens and businesses. The laws we have submitted and discussed today contain several of the most important principles, which are the improvement of the business environment in Serbia, i.e. the reduction of the cost of business in the business of payment card business and the line trade, the creation of assumptions for the further development of the financial market, in particular in the process of removing obstacles to the development of local interbank repo markets and financial derivatives markets, additional protection of financial services users through increased transparency and comparison of the provision of these services, in order to enable each citizen and economic operator to make easier decisions on the choice of services and financial institutions, and in line with its real needs. All proposed legislative solutions have been carefully prepared, and almost all proposals have been led by a serious and competent public debate, in some cases to the very submission of the proposal, and all with a view to gathering relevant opinions and giving opportunity to all interested parties to give their own judgment on these solutions. The laws were presented and discussed in relevant professional associations such as the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Association of Banks of Serbia, and in certain laws in the draft process, they participated in inter-resor groups and representatives of individual ministries and other state institutions. When drawing up a bill, examples are taken into account, good examples from international practice, as well as rules currently applied in the EU, but never criticalally and at all costs, i.e. by not assessing the maturity of the domestic market for their application. A comprehensive and detailed analysis of the effects, in particular in the section concerning the implications of citizens and economic operators, was a defining factor in proposing individual solutions in the texts you have in front of you. I will begin by proposing a Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services in the distance of contracts with a specific explanation of individual solutions. It continues its permanent work by the NBS to improve the protection of financial services users. Although the specific rights of users have been protected by specific laws so far, above all by the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, especially with regard to the provision of information in the pre-contractual phase and the elements that the Financial Service contract should contain, the basic paper adopted by this law is seen in that the protection is now adapted to the use of financial services through modern information and technological means, such as Internet and mobile phones, and all in accordance with best international practice. In 2017, the number of users in Serbia who made internet payments reached nearly two million users, while the number of those who made mobile payments for the first time crossed the number of one million. This clearly shows that the general trend of the digitisation of society, which is developing significantly faster in the financial sector, leads to the need to reduce the risk that the representative of the financial institution is not physically present at the moment of providing information or conclusion of the contract, the user chooses the product and commits himself to a financial institution that does not meet its needs, which will be regretted for many years. Unlike the protection of users of individual financial services, which is currently partially regulated by specific laws for individual services, e.g. the protection of the users of banking services and the users of the lease in the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, and the protection of insurance users in the Insurance Act, in an integrated way access to the protection of customers of financial services in remote contracts, so that protection refers not only to services provided by the institutions under the supervision of the NBS, but also to other participants in the capital market such as investment funds and funds. On the other hand, given the degree of financial education of one part of economic operators, protection that is usually provided in comparative legal practice only to citizens, these apply both to farmers and entrepreneurs. The obligation of financial service providers and the rights of users of these services in remote contracts is clearly and unequivocally regulated by this proposal, which will contribute to strengthening the confidence of users in the application of modern bargaining techniques, such as electronic trade and electronic and mobile banking, and thus indirectly and indirectly to the overall demand for financial services, but also to lower their costs. The distance agreement of financial services users allows access to the widest range of financial services available on the domestic financial market, regardless of their place of residence and how far the nearest exposure of the financial institution is. I will not enter all the details of the individual provisions of the law at this time, but certain institutions governed by this law refer to the delivery of clear and relevant information in the pre-contractual phase and in advertising, with the burden of proof that information has been delivered to the financial institution. Then, on the right of the user to give up the contract within 14 days, unless it is a specific contract, such as foreign exchange or purchase of financial instruments whose price is permanently changed and dependent on the conditions of the stock market, with a period of 30 days in respect of certain contracts, as is the case with life insurance contracts. Then, the right of the user to terminate the contract at no cost when the financial institution violates the provisions of this law, as well as the futility of the provisions of the contract that disowns the rights of the beneficiary given to it by this law. These institutes have not been completely unknown in our legal system before, but these laws are much more detailed, giving them additional quality and greater security for users. Users are protected by this law from providing and charging services they did not ask for. Since it is explicitly prescribed that they are exempt from any obligation in the case of services which are not ordered, such as, illustrations, the case with certain types of insurance where the user is not aware of any obligation, nor has he requested these services. Also, to prevent aggressive advertising by automatically sending e-mails or in other similar ways, such a type of communication is intended to be possible only if the user has previously explicitly agreed to such communication. Taking into account the still insufficient widespread use of qualified electronic signatures by natural persons, it is possible for a distance contract of up to 600,000 dinars to give consent to the conclusion of a contract using existing two-factory authentication methods or an electronic identification scheme of a high level of reliability in accordance with the law governing an electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, as well as the regulation of the National Bank of Serbia, which lays down minimum standards for the management of the financial institution's information system. The two-factory authentication method has been used for years in electronic banking to give orders and execute payment transactions, and it is justified to use it in closing the contract up to a certain value, such as contracts for overrun or for saving citizens. Financial service provider, e.g. In any event, the bank must use a qualified electronic signature in the conclusion of an electronic contract, providing security for the financial service user. The supervision of this law is entrusted to the highest extent of the NBS, and users are entitled to object to the financial institution, the right to appeal to the National Bank, if the user is dissatisfied with the response to the complaint and the procedure of the extrajudicial settlement. When it comes to the next act that we have prepared, the proposal for a law on financial security, I would like to say that the basic objective of this law is to establish a clear, uniform and effective legal framework for the negotiation and implementation of the collateral for the implementation of the obligations of participants in the financial market. Law-making is important because applicable legal solutions governing financial security, i.e. the stocks of securities of value, money and credit claims are not systemically covered, are not mutually agreed, are not adapted to contemporary market movements, are neither in line with international standards, and in judicial practice there are numerous and serious doubts about the reach of existing solutions, which creates a state of legal and financial uncertainty when it comes to effective settlement from such security funds. Also, the lack of adequate regulation in the field of financial collateral is one of the main barriers to the development of the vanbersan market, including the market for financial derivatives for risk protection, repo-market of securities of value and the market for collateralised loans and loans. Starting from this, the benefits expected from the adoption and application of this law are multiple: the achievement and improvement of legal certainty and efficiency in the implementation of commitments on the financial market by laying down clear rules for the negotiation, recording and implementation of collateral without administrative procedures and the implementation of a long-term judicial or administrative procedure. A reduction in the financial market credit risk of participants, in particular with the possibility of netting on the basis of early maturity or termination of mutual claims and obligations of the parties. A higher degree of protection of claims, i.e. a better negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia in public debt management operations on the financial market, such as for example, the negotiation of financial derivatives to protect against foreign exchange risks. A higher degree of protection of NBS claims in carrying out monetary operations, repo transactions, purchases and sale of securities from values, foreign exchange swap transactions and approval of loans to banks based on securities stock and other financial collateral. Standardisation of financial framework contracts, ensuring a higher level of security for domestic and foreign investors, as well as creditors in business with domestic financial institutions, while at the same time providing a better position for these residents in negotiations with foreign partners and access to more favourable sources of funding. The inclusion of modern market solutions, such as the possibility that the recipient of security, the trustee, may have collateral instead of blocking these security funds, which contributes to a greater liquidity of the market, i.e. more intensive secondary transport of financial instruments. Improving the market for collateralised loans, i.e. repo transactions and financial derivatives in order to protect against foreign and other types of market risks, as well as other OTCs, i.e. vanbersan contracts. This law also introduces a number of newspapers in the field of contractual and publishing law, such as the establishment of a special contract appointed, i.e. Financial security contracts. In order to ensure the enforcement of a specific financial obligation by participants in the financial market, and under the conditions laid down in the law, a specific type of law is established or the means of security is transferred, i.e. the right of ownership is transferred to that asset. A typical example of a security contract transposing property rights over securities of value is a repo contract, which is also used in central banking practice. The law does not impose on the appearance and content of this contract, but the parties have the freedom to negotiate and choose the conditions under which they will regulate their relations by defining the proposed dissuasive legal solutions regarding the type of security means, the way in which they are used and made available to them, as well as the manner in which they settle the claim and the conditions under which they can be settled from the collateral. Who could be the contractor in a financial security contract? These are primarily qualified participants in the financial market, such as the Republic of Serbia, the NBS, banks, brokerage and distillery companies, investment companies and other financial sector entities, as well as international and foreign financial institutions. It is not intended for the contracting party to also be a person who does not appear directly on the financial market, more specifically the contracting parties cannot be ordinary companies and other legal and natural persons, because our assessment is that in this still underdeveloped phase of the domestic financial market would not be systematically allowing those persons to enter such financial transactions, above all, because of their weaker economic strength, but also less financial education. Only financial security funds may appear in the account, financial instruments and credit claims, a collateral which, by its nature, represents liquid and solid market material. In order to reduce the risk of over-indebted debt and protect market participants from liquidity, not the insolvency of the other contracting party and to prevent market disturbances, the proposal provides that financial security cannot be given its own action, whose value depends directly on the financial situation of the security provider. Specific rules are provided for in credit claims, which are transferred as security funds, in order to ensure compliance with the rules on banking secrecy when it comes to debtors under these claims. The paper in relation to the traditional solutions that have been made so far in the field of publishing law is also the possibility of using the funds of security and the availability of these funds, which encourages market liquidity, and the recipient of security can also exercise the right to income and other inflows that provide security funds unless otherwise agreed. The procedure for establishing financial security has been deprived of administrative complications, i.e. it is sufficient for the funds to be recorded in an appropriate account without registration, over and other formal elements. The key part of this proposal is the efficient realisation of funds by means of out-of-court security by market principles, and with the possibility of netting that is firstly regulated in the law, but also the acquisition of that asset, i.e. the acquisition of property rights on that asset, if so agreed. In this respect, it is necessary to stress that the exercise of the right and obligations under the financial security contract is carried out independently of the bankruptcy, liquidation and reorganisation process towards the donor, or the recipient of the security. These are almost unique solutions in international practice, because otherwise liquid assets would be trapped in a bankruptcy or other similar procedure for a longer period of time, and the chain consequences of insufficient collateral security on the financial market and today testify to the traumatic consequences of the financial crisis that took place 10 years ago. With this in mind, due to the smooth application of the provisions of this law and the elimination of any non-consistency, appropriate amendments to the bankruptcy law have also been prepared, which will also be the subject of debate at today's session. The supervision of the application of the provisions of this law will, above all, be carried out by the NBS and by the HOV Commission, taking into account that most of the transactions with financial security relate to the institutions under their, or our supervision. The entry into force of the law is scheduled for 1 January 2019 so that all participants in the financial market and the competent authorities, who carry out bankruptcy proceedings, are prepared in good time, and that all necessary sublegal acts for its implementation are adopted. In front of us, it is particularly important to me, because it is important to the citizens of Serbia, to the economy, especially to small traders, to the draft law on interbank fees and to the specific rules of business in payment transactions based on payment cards. As the name tells him, it is a law governing the business of payment cards in our country, for the first time in a comprehensive way. I remind you that the Payment Services Act, which was adopted in 2014, created a solid legal framework for modern payment frameworks, which encourages further development of security payments in the Republic of Serbia. Data analysis and the state of the home payment system show that trends in our country do not lag behind trends in the developed economies of EU countries and that our citizens and businesses are increasingly using modern payment methods. Trend growth especially refers to payment cards. The illustrations for, during 2017, were the most popular payment instrument and their use realised 57% of the total number of transactions. This is precisely why it is proposed to pass laws and it is an upgrade of the normative basis relating to a segment of the payment services market which is continuously growing. Given that this market is characterised by specific rules, they need to be particularly regulated, in order to achieve the objectives that we want to achieve in this area, which is to encourage further growth of security payments and achieve a higher degree of digitisation in our society, and thus to reduce the grey economy, to protect the interests of card users, above all, consumers and traders and, three, to allow a fair match by reducing the cost of accepting payment cards and increasing transparency and competitiveness in the market. It is indisputable today that the cost of accepting payment cards is one of the basic reasons why retailers do not have POS terminals or give up enabling card transactions and accept only cash and checks. The prevailing part of these costs are interbank fees. How do they work and what exactly are interbank fees? This is the central point of the law, and it is important that all, and especially the citizens who are following us, understand the market of mechanisms that we are unconsciously, daily exposed to as consumers. Namely, every time a consumer uses a payment card to buy a store, a bank that has set up a POS card terminal with a trader or bank receiver, as we call it, pays so-called. the interbank fee to the bank which has issued a card to the consumer bank of the issuer. In practice, this fee the publisher bank is turning to a trader through a trade fee, which is a cost that is very well known to our merchants. The trader builds that cost on the basis of a trade fee into the price of goods and services. It is important to say that the trader in the current conditions has no opportunity to influence more actively the transaction through a card that carries a lower amount of interbank fee and is cheaper because the choice of payment card is on the buyer. A buyer who is not sufficiently informed to whom he actually pays that high interbank fee. The buyer unwittingly often uses a more expensive card because he does not see directly the cost he carries, the cost of its use. And it's a card suggested by the publisher bank, because it's the card that brings to the bank the bigger interbank fee, all in accordance with the rules of the Card Organisations. We all met with various prizes when the consumer received a symbolic gift, but paid with a particular card. And he is most often unaware that this suggested choice of payment card triggers a more expensive transaction with a trader who installs that cost at the price of goods and services, so by paying more expensive products, in fact all Serbian citizens, and not only the one who pays, bear the cost of high interbank fees, including those of citizens who pay cash or use cheaper payment cards. In this way, the mention of the gift is actually paid by all of us consumers, and not by the bank or by the Card Organisation. The rules currently in force on the payment card market, which will change the law, stimulate the use of cheaper payment cards that have a completely identical function in the sales place and do not bring any benefits to the trader, or to the buyer, compared to cheaper payment cards. Also, instead of increasing competition stimulating the use of cheaper products, card business has established quite the opposite mechanisms than those imposed by the market, so competition among card organisations leads to more and more interbank fees being determined, which generates even bigger trade fees and pays the price for society in general. So, a bank that only issues cards, often charges for their issue and maintenance, is the one that actually accounts for the largest part of the profit in each card use, not the one that allows the credit card to be accepted by the trader, which sets up post terminals and practically expands the sales network on which card payment is possible. That's why the post terminal sales network is slow and expanding. This problem is significantly felt by small merchants because they are forced to accept high card costs to keep their customers and increase sales. In fact, the amount of costs paid directly depends on the bargaining power of the trader, so large trade chains, as desirable clients for other banking services, are given more favourable bank offers, while small traders, craftsmen and small businesses have a worse bargaining position and banks contract with them high commercial fees, destimulating the acceptance of payment cards, and in fact stimulates the use of the money or the cost is transferred to the consumer. Due to all this, the National Bank of Serbia proposes that this law eliminate the following shortcomings: First, to limit interbank fees to 0.2% of the value of the debit transaction, or 0.3% for credit cards. In a transitional period of six months, in order for banks to adapt to these conditions, a limit of 0.5% for debit and 0.6% for credit cards will apply. Interbank fees prescribed by international card systems for Serbia are among the highest in Europe. They currently account for at least 0.9 to 1% of the transaction value, while for certain card products they go up to 2%. In other words, Serbian citizens indirectly pay more interbank fees than those in the EU markets where these fees are limited exactly to 0.2%, or 0.3%, for credit cards. This restriction, at the EU level it applied, only in 2016 led to a growth of 11.7% of posters, and the number of card transactions increased only in 2016 by 12.2%. Similarly, we expect a reduction in trade fees next to us, of course. Secondly, the National Bank of Serbia proposes a series of rules that will contribute to transparency over the bank-trader. The negotiating power of the trader in relation to the banks will strengthen the rule of mandatory separation of fees, according to which the receiving bank will be obliged to offer and account to the trader individually for different types and brands of payment cards, rather than collectively as so far, allowing low-cost cards to subsidise cards that are more expensive and to stimulate their use. The aim of the norm is for the trader to be familiar with which cards generate more costs. The law will also allow traders to make choices and accept only those card products that bear lower costs, not all cards, as is the case today. The law prohibits the illicit influence on the trader in the use of payment instruments, i.e. banks and card payment systems, will not be able to prohibit the trader from directing the consumer to cheaper cards. Furthermore, the trader will be able to give priority to the payment instrument of a particular brand, as well as to inform consumers of the fees paid by the trader to the bank's recipient. Thirdly, perhaps as important as this limitation of fees, payment cards that Serbian citizens are dominantly using for payments in the country, as much as 97%, and even for over 80 of these transactions, the overall processing is done abroad, in payment systems over which the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia have no control or insight into their work. To repeat -- out of 97% of the country's payments, over 80% of transactions, all their processing is done abroad, in payment systems over which the state of Serbia has neither control nor insight. That is why we have proposed introducing obligations to banks and other payment service providers to issue a card to each user for free of charge for which all transactions are processed, netted and settled in the country's payment system in Serbia. In this way, payment card users will be protected from the risk that any problems in the work of foreign platinum systems, whether operational or any other nature, will lead to the inability to pay daily cards in the Republic of Serbia, and will allow banks to manage financial, operational and reputationary risks more effectively. Here I remind you that ensuring the smooth functioning of payment traffic is one of the NBS functions that has been imposed on her by law. Since this law provides for a series of new solutions, a six-month period has been foreseen since the start of application, so that all the entities to which the laws apply can be prepared in a timely and adequate manner for its application. Let me present to you briefly from the law on changes and additions to the Payments Act, whose superior objectives are to create conditions for greater transparency and better comparison of payment service fees, in relation to payment account, defining payment account change procedures, which will be easy, fast, simple, as well as determining payment rights with basic services and access to that account. Safe, stable and efficient functioning of the payment system is essential for maintaining financial stability, implementing monetary policy measures, speeding up economic activity flows and reducing the social costs of money transfers. Just as we at the National Bank are trying to do our job as best and as efficiently as possible, so I believe that all the other participants in our country's payment system can further contribute to the stability and efficiency of the functioning of the payment system in Serbia and that these changes to the Law on Payment Services that are before you today will be their way to achieving that goal. Here, first of all, I mean the way payment service providers show and charge fees for services provided to their users. The payment service law prescribes the right of providers, payment services to charge compensation for the services provided, but also the obligation to provide information which is required to provide payment service users, in accordance with this law, in a clear and easily understandable manner. However, despite the application of that legal standard, payment service users have difficulty understanding how much they pay and for what service, i.e. because of the different termsology of payment service providers, they simply cannot compare prices for the same payment service. We therefore believe that by establishing a list of representative services, we will contribute to greater transparency, because all payment service providers will be obliged to use the terminology set out in this list when advertising their services. We believe that this will help users understand what service is provided or offered under what conditions. On the other hand, the obligation to provide the user with payment service within a reasonable period of time before the conclusion of the payment service framework contract, to provide the user with a review of the services and payment account and obligations, to submit to the user at least once a year a report on all fees charged, should contribute to better and comparable payment service charges and, consequently, to the greater competition, given that users will now be able to establish in a simple and quick manner which the provider may provide them with a specific payment service at the most favourable price. In order to make assumptions for the further development of competition among payment service providers, the additions to the law explicitly foresee the possibility of simplifying the procedure for changing the payment account. In this connection, the obligations of the new and old payment service provider are determined, and all to make the procedure for changing the payment account as simple as possible and more favourable for the payment service user. The payment service user will be able to submit a request for a change in the payment account, including the closing of the payment account opened by the previous service provider, but, or without shutting down that account, only certain services, and all in a quick and simple manner, without unnecessary administrative requirements from the payment service provider. In view of the above, we expect payment service providers to make additional efforts to meet the needs of their users in the most appropriate way and to assure them that the user's decision to exercise trust is correct and mutually satisfying. On the other hand, it is expected that all payment service providers will seek to attract as much as possible by making their services as attractive as possible to the number of new users whose simplified account change procedures can only facilitate decision making, that the old provider changes for a new one. In view of this, we believe that the provisions governing the procedure for changing the payment account will contribute to the further development of the payment services market and to healthy competition among the participants in the market and all in the interest of end-users. The third important newspaper proposed by the NBS in this law is precisely a payment account with basic services. In this regard, it is proposed that each bank be obliged to allow consumers who have legal residence in the Republic of Serbia and have no open account at its request to open and use a payment account with basic services. The main objective of introducing such an account is to increase the financial inclusion of citizens, i.e. a number of natural persons who will use payment services and in relation to the payment account. This issue is significant because citizens who do not have an open payment account cannot transfer money or execute transactions other than those based on cash, and are excluded from any kind of online transaction or online purchase, which are infrequently cheaper and more favourable to them. Inability to use non-cash payment instruments, payment service users often end up taking higher costs, but also taking higher risks because they can only use cash. We must not forget the fact that the larger financial inclusion and use of the security payment instruments are one of the basic preconditions for reducing the country's grey economy and, in this way, by creating assumptions for greater financial inclusion, the NBS wants to help the government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts to fight the grey economy. The payment account with basic services will include services that allow payment and payment of cash in the payment account, i.e. from the payment account, as well as payment account cash transfer services, i.e. payment account, direct debt, using payment card, including Internet payments and transfer of authorisation, as well as a permanent order. With regard to payment account rights with basic services, I'd like to highlight another important paper. The NBS, in accordance with the proposed provisions, is legally entitled to provide for certain socially endangered consumer categories, and, following the attached opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs, prescribes the conditions under which banks would be obliged to provide payment services to those consumers for free of charge relating to this payment account. In this way, we intend to create the possibility that, in the event of a need, we can provide further protection by means of a sublegal act and facilitate the position of our most socially endangered citizens. Furthermore, but no less important, I would also point out several major changes to the applicable provisions of the laws that we have sought to provide greater protection to payment service users. A reduction in the amount to which the payment service provider does not bear losses, arising from the execution of unauthorized payment transactions, is proposed from 15,000 to 3,000 dinars. It is estimated that the amount of 15,000 to which the payer bears the losses arising from the execution of unauthorized payment transactions may in certain cases constitute a significant material burden for certain categories of citizens. That is why we have further shifted the share of liability in the case of a misused payment instrument in favour of the payer, as weaker parties in the contractual relationship with the bank, but on the other hand we have stimulated banks to pay even more attention to applying security measures in relation to payment instruments that issue and protect personalised security elements in order to minimise the number of abuses related to these instruments. In addition, a new provision granting the National Bank the power to prescribe cases where the payer bears losses arising from the execution of unauthorized payment transactions and below 3,000 dinars, particularly taking into account the nature of the personalised security elements of the payment instrument and the circumstances under which the payment instrument is lost, stolen or misused. We also proposed the addition of the law in order to ensure that in cases where the payer listed the wrong number of the payer's payment account, we would provide a simpler and faster procedure for the refund of the wrongly paid money, i.e. the obligation to actively help the user by payment service providers, even when that payment service provider has made no mistake, or when the error in general is on the user's side. It is proposed that the application of this law begin at the end of nine months from the date of its entry into force, leaving sufficient time for all interested parties to prepare for its preparation. Finally, but certainly no less important, a few words about the law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act. I have six years of experience at the function of the governor of NBS and the day-to-day management and monitoring of the NGO's work organisation, as well as the need to further improve and strengthen its individual functions. The Supervisory Authority of financial institutions, as an organisational continent in which the supervisory function of the Central Bank is currently being performed, cannot adequately respond to the growing need for promotion, strengthening and functions resulting from technological development and the emergence of new participants in the financial market, as well as the upcoming expansion covering supervisory functions. In parallel, there is a noticeable takeover, centralization or return of this function to the Central Bank where it was previously entrusted to special agencies. As a supporter of this claim, I will mention that currently in 18 EU Member States, supervisory tasks are being carried out within the Central Bank, but I would point out that the abolition of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority does not call into question the functionality of the NBS organisational units in which these operations are currently being carried out and in which they will be carried out, as it is in accordance with European standards, this proposal explicitly guarantees the operational independence of these organisational units. This will be further ensured by the special vice governor's authority to carry out these tasks. That proposal is also due to the fact that the NBS, on the basis of the latest amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, will, from 1 January 2019, assume the responsibilities of the Tax Administration for issuing and withdrawing the powers to carry out foreign exchange transactions and to control foreign exchange operations, residents and non-residents and exchange operations. With the finance minister, a special agreement will be concluded to address all issues of this takeover, such as the takeover of works of employees, more than 60 of them, operational documentation, cases, information system, equipment and means of work to carry out these tasks. This proposal also provides for provisions relating to NBS functions to cover these new competences. The next goal we seek to achieve by amending the NBS Act is to eliminate certain practical difficulties observed during the application of the law in the process of implementation of monetary policy, such as the need for all NBS interest rates to be officially published on its internet presentation immediately after their determination. That solution is proposed because of the timely information and faster functioning of monetary policy transmission mechanisms on the financial market, taking into account that the decision on the reference interest rate has been published for a long time on the NBS Internet presentation and that it takes effect immediately after publication and that the level of the underlying interest rates on the monetary market, i.e. the interest rate corridor, is usually changed at the same time as the interest rate referencer. The proposal also sets out criminal provisions, so that the provisions of the National Bank Act and the rules laid down under this law are intended to be violated, the National Bank of Serbia shall impose supervisory measures and fines in accordance with the law governing the operations of banks. This contributes to greater financial discipline of banks, especially when it comes to the obligation to supply certain data, and given the expected efficiency of NBS surveillance. In line with good comparative practice, a solution is also proposed to ensure continuity in the work of the NBS authorities and to perform its functions. The aim is to prevent, to the extent possible, an empty walk between the end of the function and the new election of officials in the National Bank, thus ensuring that NBS authorities work continuously, in full composition, that the NBS performs all its functions at all times. The continuity I am talking about is also a message of stability to the financial market and a basis for proper expectations and forecasts of future developments in these markets. In addition, the solution proposed by the transitional provisions of this proposal, which states that the current director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions will continue to act as members of the Executive Board with the rights and obligations that other vice-governments also have under the law, the Statute of the National Bank and special powers until the election of the Vice-Governmentor is no more than 120 days. The National Bank of Serbia will adapt the statutes and all internal general acts to new legal changes, and existing organisational units, in which the surveillance operations are part, will continue to carry out these tasks uninterrupted and uninterrupted. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, this is what I will conclude my opening statement on the paper, the positive effects and the goals that are trying to achieve the proposed legislative solutions. I would like to thank you for your patience during the presentation and hope for a constructive debate, where we will be able to jointly consider all other issues, individual solutions and, if necessary, possible and if you are interested, to promote the proposed texts together, and to the benefit of all citizens. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37670	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37671	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Society. The draft laws amending and supplementing the Business Society Act were preceded by an analysis of the application of the law in practice, which included comments, suggestions and proposals of business entities and their associations, as well as other institutions and organisations applying this law. Amendments and additions to the law focus on improving individual solutions from the current law, removing problems in applying them, as well as continuing compliance with EU rules. I would like to set aside today the most important 10 amendments and additions to this law concerning: Number one – the use of the seal and the termination of certain provisions relating to the mandatory use of the seal in the business of business entities. The obligation to use stamps in business letters and other documents of the company cannot be prescribed by specific regulations. In this respect, the suspension of certain provisions relating to the mandatory use of the seal in the business of economic operators is also prescribed. The proposed solution, one law, one regulation, will implement an action plan relating to the abolition of the mandatory application of the seal in the business of companies and entrepreneurs, which the government adopted in its conclusion in the "Official Messenger", No. 28/18. In this way, another unnecessary administrative burden for economic operators is removed, as the creation and use of the seal imposed an excessive administration, the cost of time, made business difficult and was an additional financial burden. Along with the previously adopted e-commerce and accompanying sublaws, legal persons are allowed to move gradually to electronic business, using electronic documents and signatures, electronic data exchange, as well as electronic archived documents. Also, the proposed solutions will contribute to improving the economic environment and improving Serbia's position on the World Bank's ranking list under the conditions of business on the Duing Business List. Under two – creating preconditions for the elimination of paper business. The legal basis for replacing the company's signatures under the founding act, the qualified electronic signature, in the case of an electronic document, as well as the obligation to register the email address, which contributes to further development of the concept of e-government, digitalisation and business, more efficient communication of state bodies with the economy and economic operators, mutual communication of these entities, increasing economic efficiency, efficiency and efficiency of business. Over the next two to three years, businesses in Serbia could fully register electronically. In order to register companies, changes in seats, directors, as well as other data from the house, new software that will enable them to live. Our estimates are that electronic registration registration will be cheaper 20-30% than the paper application. This also eliminates the costs of an overture of signatures, which are currently 432 dinars per signator and shortens the time needed for the establishment of companies, and the certification of electronic signature and registration of e-mail addresses will be free of charge. Under three - improving the protection of the rights of minority members of society. Legal transactions concluded by members of the management and supervisory authorities, i.e. company control members, in which there is a personal interest, require approval, as well as a market value assessment report of the transaction concerned, if the value of the transaction is 10% or more than 10% of the book value of the company's total assets. Furthermore, the notification of the conclusion of these legal transactions must be published on the company or APR website. Transparency of data on transactions in which there is a personal interest is in the interests of society itself, its members, as well as trustees. The thresholds for convening a meeting of a limited-responsibility society from 20 to 10% have been reduced, as well as the proposal for a supplementation of the agenda from 10 to 5%, so a number of members of society are given the opportunity to actively participate in the decision-making process. It also introduced a deadline for paying dividends to shareholders, which is six months from the date of the dividend decision, eliminating the possibility of paying dividends to shareholders after years or even not paying the dividend at all. These measures are also foreseen by the government's action plan to improve Serbia's rankings on the World Bank list and the Doing Business List. Under four, the change in liquidity criteria for the determination of the market value of public stock shares. The market value of shares of a public shareholder company is determined as the weighted average price achieved on the regulated market, i.e. a multilateral trading platform, and in terms of the law governing the capital market over a period of six months, preceding the date of decision establishing the market value of the shares, provided that the volume of the shares of that class in the capital market represented at least 0.5% of the total number of shares issued in that class and that more than one third of the trading days at the monthly level were traded during the same period. Therefore, the number of trading days is also introduced, as an additional indicator of the degree of market activity, since only in the active market, the market on which transactions are held regularly and on a permanent basis, the price achieved maintains the fair value of the company's action. In accordance with paragraph 77. The international standard of financial reporting, 13 – measurement of fair value, quoted price on the active market provides the most reliable evidence of fair value and is used without corrections in measuring fair value whenever available. This way of determining the market value of public stock companies’ actions is also applied in the case where they form a non-money stake in society, as well as in the case of payment of incompatible shareholders. Under five, faster implementation of the emergency buy-out procedure. Forced purchase of actions shall be carried out regardless of the burdens of the ban on the availability, restrictions and rights of third parties on actions. It has also been proposed that there be no more suspension of the emergency buy-in procedure in the event of an application for an examination of the appropriateness of the price of the actions subject to forced redemption. It is expected that this will eliminate the abuses that existed in practice by setting up pledges on actions that are subject to a forced ransom, which, together with the suspension of the practice of suspending the emergency buy-in procedure of actions to the judicial decision, which has often been pending and for a very long time, will lead to easier implementation and completion of the emergency ransom procedure. On the other hand, minority shareholders will not be damaged by a new legal solution, since the control shareholder is obliged to pay the price difference both to the shareholder who applied to the court and to all other minority shareholders whose actions have been forced to buy, if the court finds that the price of the action has not been appropriate. Under the 6th, the regulation of the base capital reduction procedure in companies d.o.o., since the corresponding application of the provisions of the Act on the reduction of the capital of the company of a shareholder caused a lot of problems in practice, given that the legal nature of the action is not the same with the legal nature of the stake in d.o.o., i.e. that the shares are not securities of value. Under seven, the Institute of High Value Property. The provisions of the laws relating to this institute have been specified. In view of certain concerns in practice, and in particular with regard to treatment, the establishment of a right to publishing, mortgage or other means of security provided by the company for the purpose of providing its own obligation under a loan, loan or other legal business contract. In this case, it has been specified that the value of the legal work and the security funds mentioned in determining the property of the high value will not be collected in this case, but the maximum value of the individual legal action, i.e. legal transaction, will be taken as the value by which it is determined whether there has been a high value of the assets. In addition, the concept of associated acquisition is defined more precisely, i.e. the availability of large value assets. Under the related acquisition, i.e. at the disposal of several individual transactions, i.e. legal actions taken to achieve the same objective, i.e. the purpose or linkage of which arises from the nature of the legal work for which these legal transactions and legal actions are carried out. Under eight, the registration of a branch of a domestic company, which eliminates the unequal treatment of a branch of a company and a branch of a foreign company and allows public access to data on branches, especially data needed by the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and other state institutions. Under nine, the Institute of Forced Extermination. The provisions relating to the reasons for the initiation and completion of the emergency liquidation procedure, the status of the company in forced liquidation, as well as the provisions relating to the question of the assets of the company which have been deleted after the end of the mandatory liquidation are specified. The Agency for Commercial Registers will publish on the site a notice on companies where the grounds for forced liquidation have been obtained with a call to remove, within 90 days of the day of publication, the reasons for which it is possible to remove. The deadline for ending the compulsory liquidation and erasure of the company from the register was reduced from 12 months to 180 days, and the APR, under official duty, adopts an act on erasure of which the company has the right to appeal. The creation of a comprehensive legal framework for the effective implementation of an emergency winding-up procedure from the market will eliminate companies that do not meet the minimum legal requirements for business, which also represent unfair competition for companies operating legally in the Republic of Serbia. Under 10, further alignment with European Union rules on cross-border accession, merger of capital companies, the European Society and the European Economic Interest Group. In view of the obligation taken over by the negotiating position for Chapter 6 – the right of companies adopted by the Government in June of last year, the Business Society Act was complemented by provisions relating to the regulation of the legal position of the European Society, the European Economic Interest Group, as well as provisions relating to cross-border association of capital companies with companies from the Member States of the European Union. Those provisions are scheduled to apply from 1 January 2021, when the Republic of Serbia is expected to be ready to join the European Union. The second law that lies before you is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on bankruptcy. The draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Law improves the decisions of the Bank's law in the area of settlement, the request of creditors on the basis of a specific type of contract, the financial security contract in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Security Act governing all these contracts. In this connection, the proposed amendments and additions to the Bank’s Bankruption Act are exclusively related to the application of the Financial Security Act. The aim of these two laws is to ensure a modern, efficient and harmonised normative framework for the implementation of the obligations of qualified participants on the financial market, which contributes to the preservation and strengthening of the stability of the financial system. With this in mind, all the proposed solutions only follow all the newspapers defined by the Financial Security Act. It is important to note that the proposed legal solutions do not question either the objective or the principle of bankruptcy, but a special regime for trustees whose claims are secured by financial security is established. Cash on account, financial instruments and credit claims, and in full compliance with international standards, rules and practices not only established in EU countries, but in almost all countries in the immediate environment. In addition, the proposed rules on the settlement of claims concern financial market participants under the supervision of the competent authorities including the NBS and the Securities Commission. In the light of the above, they seek to make these two laws complementary and not contradictory to the introduction of direct provisions in financial security in the bankruptcy law, and to achieve the highest legal certainty in the elimination of all the dilemmas and issues which in practice could have persons involved in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. It is also important to note that financial collateral involves sustainable financial products, such as money, financial instruments, credit claims, providing financial commitments in money or in financial instruments. Therefore, there is equivalence in mutual financial contributions, obligations and claims of contracting parties that are continuously market-coordinated. In particular, in the Financial Security Act, with the standard provided for in the draft laws amending and supplementing Article 5, for the first time in our legal system, legal assumptions are created in accordance with international standards for the effective netting of mutual claims and obligations of contracting parties on the basis of qualified financial contracts, such as financial derivatives and other unnamed but standardised frameworks of the OTS contract. In fact, one of the fundamental principles of transactions in the vanbersan market is that the “close-out netting” institute protects assets and reduces credit exposure to bankruptcy. This institution shall mean that in the event of a contractual situation such as the existence of bankruptcy reasons, the launch or opening of bankruptcy at the request of one party, or the early termination of the contract and the maturity of the obligation, and then the calculation of each other's exposure and the payment of the net amount of liabilities shall be made. This is an effective and fair risk protection instrument which does not make it difficult to place the debtor additionally or endangers other creditors. This also provides protection against systemic risk, contributing to better performances for our country's credit rating. It contributes to the further development of the domestic financial market and its greater integration with the foreign market. In this regard, for many years domestic and foreign investors have pointed out that due to the lack of an adequate legal framework in this area, and especially the unclearly arranged "close-out netting" of the bankruptcy law, there are no conditions for more intensive development of the repo market, financial derivatives markets and similar products. Since these transactions were not classified under an internationally recognizable legal framework, they are treated as more risky and are therefore more expensive for domestics whose position in negotiations with foreign partners is therefore significantly more unfavourable. The negative effects of these factors are transferred to the financing of the real sector in terms of its reduced form, the more expensive means, and the less diversified risks. Therefore, when drawing up the Financial Security Act, as well as the Amendments and Supplements Act, the aim is to bring the EU acquis into line under the relevant Financial Collateral Directive, taking into account solutions for best market practices based on the principles for the implementation of "close-out netting", framework contracts by leading self-regulatory institutions, such as the International Authorities and Derivatives Association and the European Banking Federation. You also have before you the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, which is the second programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In short, the World Bank loan agreement for the second programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and other public enterprises is conceived in terms of loans for development policy. In this way, the loan provides direct budget support for implementing reforms aimed at achieving a set of concrete development results. The programme continues to support the government of the Republic of Serbia in implementing a plan for long-term fiscal consolidation and transformation of state and public enterprises in energy and transport. The second law is the Law confirming the loan agreement, a project to support state-owned financial institutions between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That loan is in line with the areas focused on the World Bank-Serbia Partnership Framework for the period 2016/20. the year brought by the World Bank Executive Board in May 2015 with the aim of helping Serbia create a competitive and inclusive economy and through such an EU integration approach. The state plays a significant role in removing obstacles to private sector growth and efficient economic governance, including weaknesses recognised in the financial sector, and therefore the support of the World Bank in financing this project is one of those contributing to the government's reform programme to create, among other things, a more stable and accessible financial sector and manages sustainable public expenditures in this area. The third is the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, which is additional funding for the second health development project of the Republic of Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project is designed to improve the quality of the public health system in the Republic of Serbia and includes improving the health financing system i.e. Support for reforms in the financing of hospitals and primary levels of health care, then increasing the efficiency of the supply of medicinal products and medical equipment, establishing a system of centralised procurement and improving the maintenance system of equipment, quality of health care services and clinical efficacy, especially in the field of prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases. All of these projects that I have cited have been done in collaboration with the World Bank and have all been done with their experts, so it has been strictly controlled and I think that by confirming these laws and the bill, we will contribute, as you have seen, to the development of the Republic of Serbia and the greater reputation, and also, I think, to the better life of all our citizens. Dear People's MPs, I would like to ask you to vote on all these laws and proposals and amendments and additions to the law in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37672	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Bosko Obradovic is the first to be reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37673	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs and citizens, helps all. It really was a rare honor and a pleasure for me to turn first after these truly wonderful introductions. It was moving to listen to how much the institutions of this country care about the evil fate of citizens under a bank robbery in Serbia in the last decades, but what is extremely important to me here and what I want to stress is that here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is an extraordinary honor and pleasure to see the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorganko Tabakovic after six years of her term and to hear that she is here after six years, it is usually an average of how long it takes for the SNS to understand something and to apply something from its pre-election promises, finally noticed that there are certain elements of a bank robbery in Serbia and that perhaps some legal solutions should be a little protection of the citizens from that bank robbery. So, after six years at the governor's post, we finally came to the realization that banks obviously don't do something right here, that is to say, at the expense of their clients. What I can say positively, and I am always ready to say first what is positive and good, and it is in these proposed laws, is above all this proposal that the election of a new NBS official must be carried out at the latest by the end of the term of office of the official to whom the mandate expires, in order for the new function to begin immediately upon the end of the function of his predecessor. I hope that's the way it will be with you, Madam Governor, whose term is soon to expire, and we'll see if the results of your work. What I certainly know that one of the results of your work is that Telecom bought you an apartment, i.e. You paid a debt of eight thousand euros, or you denied me if that's not true, the apartment you got during the government back in 2000, when you gave such a hand and a hat to state officials, as if it were your legacy, your grandmother's, so you'll get state housing. Why can't a regular other man get a state apartment? What's good is that you finally find, after six years of your term in one place, that you now worry about creating a risk that the user will choose a financial product without the necessary explanation and commit to a financial institution that does not meet its needs, explain in the National Bank of Serbia and determine these bill proposals. After six years of your term, you realize that there are finally users whose bank, without the necessary explanations, offers certain products, commits them by a contract that does not meet their needs? Now you tell me how an average man can protect his interest against the banking mob, from the banking cartel that robs him? He must be a doctor of legal science in order to overcome the contracts of thieves and all other ways of functioning banks in Serbia. Where is the National Bank of Serbia when an average Serbian citizen gets hurt under these bank frauds and thieves? Of course, you're starting now with these specific bill proposals, after six years of power, to do something like change. It's all such a patch on a deep wound. We have cancer in our banking system. Our banking system is carcinogenic, and you come to the National Assembly and you say, "Here, I have a patch, and once I glue this patch to this cancer, believe me, you'll feel better. Well, it can't be a Band-Aid that solves the cancer problem, the bank robbery of this people, these industries and these countries. Of course, I'll be more specific about that. You say, and these are the things that I support, that we understand, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services lays down rules that will further improve information and transparency regarding fees paid by payment service providers to citizens and businesses. It is also proposed to the payment service provider to keep an eye on this, at least once a year, free of charge, to submit a report on all fees paid for payment account-related services. What does that mean? Well, didn't they have any obligation so far, so they could charge whatever fees they wanted, that they could rob this people, and that you were sleeping and receiving a 5,000-euro salary at the National Bank of Serbia? Don't laugh. Some people committed suicide in this country because the banks robbed them, because they lost their apartments and houses, because public executioners threw them out on the street. That's not funny, Mrs. Tabakovic. That's tragic. I'm not saying anything by chance and by heart, I'm saying it very specifically and precisely. Here's some data, and you deny me. Is it true that fees on electronic payments in Serbia are six times higher than in the European Union? Is it true that there are about 500 different fees on bank transactions for private and legal persons? Is it true that one third of the bank's income in Serbia comes from various types of fees and fees that cannot be charged and are charged? Is it true that banks made 500m euros in profits in Serbia last 2017. In Serbia, poor, miserable, destroyed, with such an economy, 500 million profits? The bigger the crisis, the more money banks make. Isn't that a little unusual, Mrs. Tabakovic? Whose exhibit are you, governor of the NBS? Do you work for Serbian citizens who pay you, or do you work for banks? Who do you work for? You know what, I don't mind, you deserve a 5,000-euro salary, but not to be paid by the citizens of Serbia, but to be paid by the banks, which you protect by your not working and not by doing in the NBS. Let them pay you a salary of 5,000 euros, because you work for them. There can be another thing you can find here, which after six years you realize that you could eventually protect Serbian citizens from bank robbery, and you say in one place – the news is that in case someone's stolen payment card, then abused, the user will answer only to 3,000 dinars, and through that amount all the responsibility will be borne by the bank and will have to compensate for his loss. Secondly, you say that you are trying to meet and as regards payment services and the reduction of the price of admission of payment cards to traders, and thus consumers, since the high costs that traders have on this basis are, as a rule, being passed on to end-users through higher prices of goods and services. Good morning, Columbus. Of course, another good thing, you're saying that the Law on the Protection of Users of Financial Services in Remote Negotiation, which is commendable, finally regulates this area in a much better way than it has ever been before and allows for the creation of new opportunities for work, which is important for our IT sector and which really enables some better rights for users of financial services when contracting financial services using means of communication at a distance, Internet, mobile phones, etc. There's about to end everything I can say positively, but it's not positive, because it took you six years to do these minimal things for the benefit of Serbian citizens, but that's why you did everything for the banks. Banks are protected white bears in the state of Serbia. No one can do anything to them, and they can do anything to us. Now, that's where we come up with that key question. You say, and here I agree with you, that the maturity of the domestic market for the application of certain laws is the key. Would you like me to quote exactly what the other minister was talking about, to quote what the rationale for confirming loans between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development says? He says this -- the Serbian financial sector is dominated by the banking sector with a strong presence of foreign banks. Hear loudly, with the prevailing, monopolies presence of foreign banks. In second place, he says -- the state-owned banking sector continues to face losses. Tell me, then, why do serious states, like Canada, limit the percentage of foreign banking participation on their market? Do you think they're stupid? Why don't we have that? Why can the banking sector be completely owned by foreign capital? So in order to be a colony, so as not to be a sovereign, independent and independent state, that we can't develop domestic economy and agriculture, so that banks hold a monopoly and blackmail the financial flow of this country. e thieving foreign banks, which rob and tear the skin from the back of Serbian citizens with the highest interest rates and fees in Europe, which you yourself acknowledge, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic admitted, is a big deal, that they will not invest in our economy, that they will not give favourable credit to our small and medium-sized enterprises, that they have only motive to participate in those transactions where they easily and quickly make extra profits, without any risk to their business. Because, Mrs. Tabakovic, it is an important domestic bank, because it can and can risk, especially when it is state-owned, in the interest of its citizens, in the interest of its economy. The foreign bank doesn't care, the foreign bank behind which you stand and which you favor and which you here protect by your inaction. Only a state bank, defined "Development Bank", can have an interest in crediting domestic economy and agriculture at favourable interest rates. That foreign bank has no interest. He won't risk it, and what would develop our economy and agriculture when he has an interest in developing his, i.e. our competition. So, things are very simple here, but the problem is that you don't come here to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia so that you can never go public with this taboo topic. Taboo theme. Currency clause, Mrs. Tabakovic. A robbery on currency clauses. You want me to just give you credit indexed in Swiss francs? When did you respond to numerous requests from the Association of Citizens that were damaged, such as the Effective, or the CHF? I was with them in front of your headquarters in a protest on several occasions. You pretend to be crazy, the only one in Europe, so you don't settle credits indexed in Swiss francs for more than 20,000 families that have been robbed. Imagine that you have a loan, that you pay off a loan for 10 years and that after 10 years of paying off your credit, you have more to repay than at the beginning of your credit debt. What's it called, Mrs. Tabakovic? Robbery. Thieves, scratching the skin off the back of the citizens. That's what you allow in the NBS. What I'm saying is, I didn't make it up. Here's a colleague of Victor Orban's in Hungary. Canceled the currency clause. All loans indexed in foreign currencies transferred to domestic currency. So it's okay. Here's an example of colleagues in Poland, additional taxation of foreign banks. They can't make this much extra profit in the time of the global economic crisis. They can't rob this poor people. You think they'd leave Serbia? There's never enough profit for them. If they make 500 million on an annual basis, if we take half of them, they'll still have to make that half. But we need to teach the banks a little bit to share the burden of the crisis with the citizens and the economy, i.e. to further tax them. Not to mention what we've been talking about here for years, and through the work of our anti-corruption team, that banks have special, favourable contracts on certain special VIP loans, for judges in different courts in Belgrade, and that judges afterwards, how do you think they're going to judge damaged banking clients in certain specific situations? Of course, as is the interest of the bank from which they received favourable loans. Is that crime, is that corruption? Well, of course crime and corruption are at the highest state level, where banks are bribing judges in this country. You watch and you keep quiet, and you know this is true. You know perfectly that judges of Serbia's most important courts, first in Belgrade, have special bank loans, which no other Serbian citizen can get. You think the banks give it to them because they like judges in Serbia? No, but to corrupt them, Mrs. Tabakovic, but you look at it and you suffer and you keep quiet. Not to return now to the economic genocide of domestic banking, to everything that has been done since 5 October 2000, to the destruction of all domestic banks and everything that has actually made it possible for us to be in our own state today to be slaves of a foreign monopoly banking system. Look what other countries of the world are doing. When the crisis is saved by their own domestic banks, because they know that without domestic banking, there is no generator for rebuilding and developing domestic bring-in and agriculture. It's the only obvious you don't understand. You're the only one working for the interests of foreign banks. I would not go back to what we also said through the Dverlix affair, as banks in Serbia launder money, especially from drug trafficking, as their participation in robbery privatisations, etc. You know very well, but keep your mouth shut, because you're a lobbyist for the NBS-led banks, not a lobbyist and one who protects Serbian citizens from bank robbery, which should be your basic control-control role as NBS. You are now also terminating the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority, which should probably stop those banks from the robbery. You, in practice, admit here that all your instructions so far have been useless, useless and without any functional benefit, because you have to legally push the banks that don't listen to you and do what they want. You tell them – let's just cut your fees down a bit, come on, a little bit that goes into interest rates frames, not additionally to rob citizens of 500 different fees and fees. They're nothing. Now you must legally press them. You could have done that six years ago, but you didn't. For six years, you have been responsible for the bank robbery of Serbian citizens, and you could have stopped her. Why are you just passing these laws today? Because you've let them rob us for six years. What good do you guys have, I don't know, we can consider that, too. So, what's very important to us here, when we talk about the Financial Security Act, this law, which is particularly interesting, is that you allow our debt to be resold to another financial institution, that one morning we wake up to take credit here and that we should repay that loan, or debt here, but that he resold it to someone else and that suddenly we're slaves to someone else, but we didn't commit ourselves at the beginning of the story. It's the same thing you owe the answer for, as you owe the answer why you haven't solved the problems of 20,000 families that have loans indexed in Swiss francs. It may also be a problem to allow those third parties and all others, too, to prevent the collection of claims in bankruptcy proceedings under the new Banking Act. Based on what? Because they're banks? Because according to your new Financial Security Act, they have the possibility of a special settlement regime for creditors whose claims are secured by financial security, financial assets in the account, etc. Where are the workers? Back in the last place, just like so far. It means that banks are calmed down, that financial creditors are calmed down, and workers and everything else can always be the last place in Serbia. I ask you, when will you return the workers who have been robbed in robbery privatisation to what follows them? All outstanding earnings, all outstanding others their claims, all unrelated work experience, etc. You don't care about that, but you're interested in the bank by accident and other financial institutions not to have something damaged in the bankruptcy process, God forbid. We've been robbed a little bit so we can protect them, so we don't let anything happen to them in this weather. It's a little 500m euros in annual bank profits, let's just say they have a bigger profit. Where's the economy? Where's the farm? Where are the citizens? That's an irrelevant question for you. You, after all, are not interested in the debt of slavery of our citizens. You're not interested in the fact that public contractors are throwing families out on the street because of certain inability to repay certain bank loans. What I'm sure doesn't even occur to you, because we don't see that in six years you haven't been able to analyze it. Why was the SDK good system? Why was it a good system for the Department of Accounting and Payment? Why is it better for the state to hold in its hands its payment traffic, not to hand it over to foreign banks? Excuse me, Mrs. Tabakovic, when you receive your salary on your current account, he has no reason to be in a foreign bank. You need to make the law so he has to be at home bank. Why would you take your salary to a foreign bank account? There's no reason for that. State pay traffic must be in state hands. You've freed everyone that banks can have a monopoly and that they can continue in any way to rob this people and this country. Of course, as far as these loans are concerned, it's just comedy for itself. We are taking loans to reform our public enterprises, our financial operations, everything the government of the Republic of Serbia should do for the salary received by the state administration is up in this country. We're now taking a loan to let strangers help us with that, and they're going to take back most of that money that we borrow from them for our services consulting and who knows what. In that sense, I can only conclude that what you have put into the basic objectives that will be achieved by the proposed changes and additions of the law, better informed payment service users, as a prerequisite for greater protection of their rights, a better comparison of fees compared to other banks, a reduction in the cost of using services linked to payment accounts, all of this was your job six years ago. You should answer for letting banks get rich in these six years and Serbian citizens get poor. Nothing putting this patch on a cancer will help hide your responsibility for what you've done at the head of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37674	You've wasted your time. Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37675	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure - a violation of dignity. We listened to a well-known businessman and farmer of Bosko Obradovic. Most of all, we heard about the robbery, about the banks, which were created right at the time Kostunica delegated him to be a spokesman for the Chapanese library. Not to forget Velya Ilic. So, at a time when he was robbing along with them, let's say, "Coluber" -- 50,000 euros for a spokesman for the Chapanese library, 50,000 euros, just enough to find him. Senior Obradović – 60 thousand objects without permission to build, but with permission to install, for junior, Velja Ilic testified. And today he insults the dignity of the National Assembly and talks of the robbery. He will not say that he robbed the Hilandar, the Republika Srpska budget, his own party. Namely, here data has been verified that in the election campaign Mr. Obradovic took over his candidates who registered fictitious entrepreneurship stores 28 million and 600,000 dinars, name and last name, for purposes – electrorads, five million 665 000. Imagine a party doing electroradacies in the campaign and they cost five million 665 thousand. Fictitious jobs, money laundering, but money laundering isn't worth it to him. We have further – Cvianović Borcho, computer repair, nine million 698 thousand. Where did that composition go, how many trains? And in the end, the man who robbed the Hilandar, whom they call - the holy goddess of the left hand is the last one who can talk about the robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37676	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on Article 107's injury? (Marian Risticevic: No. ) (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. When you sit here, we will be happy to hear your way of conducting the session. I'm working a little differently. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37677	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 108, which concerns that you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which means that you should not allow the Rules of Procedure to be misused in the sense of replication. Although, to be honest, in this case, it was appropriate for the Two, because it is quite clear that the presentation of President Dvera Bosko Obradovic, specifically on the work of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, there are no other arguments, but is resorting to the defamation of personality. It personally suits us that you show from day to day that you have no counterarguments, that you have no explanation for your behavior, but is the only thing you resort to is debauchery. I really thank you for giving me the opportunity to remind you and remind the citizens of Serbia to closely observe the course of this session and to simply listen to what and who is saying in this high house and who is acting. We stick to the subject, we take care of the citizens' interests, and we don't care at all about what you're personally characterized here. We won't be dealing with the dirt that you're pulling, or your tails, as at some point the governor made a mistake. We're interested in citizens here. Here, dear colleagues, give the counterarguments, and the debate will be respect for this home, respect for the citizens' interests, and you won't need... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37678	Thank you. I listened very carefully to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you called for article 108, and you spoke in one sentence, the first one, only about the content of article 27, so it was very difficult to follow you. But, well, you have an extenuating circumstance that you may not be able to manage some time, probably because of your inexperience in the work of parliament, so we'll forgive you, but you can't vote for an injury to a member whose contents you don't know, obviously, because article 108 is talking about something else and article 107, whose content you used, is talking about something completely different again. Replica, Governor of Jorganka Tabakovic. (Ivan Kostic: Rules of Procedure. ) The member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks who runs the session is very clear. Sign up, please, until the MPs report.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37679	Thank you, President. To tell you the truth, this parliament seems to have changed a lot back a few years. Is it possible that someone with such an easy excuse in the cameras, in front of a million-dollar auditorium, in front of all of us here, is so untrue that I appear here for the first time in six years? We have introduced laws on improving the protection of users of financial services, a set of laws that improve work in the financial sector in 2014-2015. Well, even if I didn't think you were in parliament, that doesn't mean the time begins from the moment you came in here. This kind of ease of telling lies is something that neither needs this home nor needs Serbia. I can stand it. I'm here a day, two, five weeks, and I'll be here next time with some law. It's not my place to train you, but it's a shame to say I'm talking about tails. My colleague, the word is repo operations. Believe me, I wouldn't even remember what you were alluding to if my fellow congregation benches, Kovacevic, hadn't explained it to me, seemed to know better about the situation here, that you had replaced the rapping operations with your tails. Let me introduce myself to you, Mr. Obradovic, I am the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, elected in this parliament by the ruling majority whose most of the SNS did and spelled, the proud governor of the NBS, who is not a lobbyist. What kind of lobbyist who returned 5.3 billion to the users based on NBS' decision in 2015 returned the banks based on a unilateral increase in interest rates, which the NBS found, banned and ordered to return? What governor did this before me? So 5.13 billion just on that basis, and I don't want to talk about protecting users, where citizens now have the right to have their banks accounting for wars in the same course, the kind of course that gives them credit rates. I don't expect you to talk about the results. I just expect you to protect your reputation, your own Parliament, by not saying what's simply not true, what's obvious and evidence. I'm 58 years old. I'm six years in the governor's office. I don't try to like anyone, I owe no one anything, except for those who voted here for me, citizens who voted for them and for me, I owe my face to the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose economic policy I am obliged to support and support. I am obliged to secure low inflation and ensure that citizens are paid, that they do not have a tax called inflation, and it was when I came to the governor's post 12.9% a month. That was the inflation I found. It's on the European level today. I'm sorry, what financial stability we all have in Serbia together, not you, but we, because we share everything and do not enjoy the results of the work of coordinated monetary and fiscal policies, means to the government and the National Bank of Serbia, only those citizens who support SNS, but all citizens. It's a minimum of the truthfulness of the relationship to itself, but also to others. Excuse me, what are the interest rates on the loans today? Eleven percentage points are on average lower interest rates on loans today than those you had before, but these authorities and these coalition partners define economic policy and do not take credit for who contributed more, but work together because the real face of Serbia's state today is respected, respected and desirable investment destination. Do I tell you if it would be a desirable investment destination to discriminate here on any categories of those who work, banks, companies, companies, and everyone has a goal of earning profits? And your goal is, and my goal, and all of us are to live in comfort. We're just different, some of us want to get out of honest work, telling the truth by not adding to anyone's salary and providing themselves with the fulfillment of the wishes of that own salary. You're talking about bank profits, yes, they made more profits in 2007 than in 2016. Over 100 million of the profits are the result of consolidation of the bank's market merger in Serbia, a fifth is the reason. A significant amount of the increase in profits is precisely the result of a measure by the National Bank of Serbia, which is so-called. tests, stress tests, AQR tests, special research results that we asked banks to clear problematic loans from their balance sheets, so they had losses in the previous year and therefore the profit in 2017 seems to be higher. I'm not mad at you. You know, they say, in war and love, all means are allowed. It's not war, it's not love. This is Parliament, I'm a governor who doesn't ask for respect because on a card or on a tile it says so. I ask that you respect me as a man who has dedicated work, with a team who inherited it in the National Bank and created it, has results that are recognized, and are not a matter of any impression, but concrete information that is also spoken of by those who do not particularly like the executive authorities or the National Bank in Serbia, but have to bow down and give recognition. I'm not looking for happiness in other people's heads. I don't expect a confession for the results. I expect the most from myself and deliver the results. We both know you and I, laurel's crowns and thorns give people to each other, but to accept something as thorns or accusations or to accept someone's honor as a laurel's crown, you have to be a man. The hardest thing is today. A man, and he's supposed to be a man. They're not so ghouly and heavy these expressions here. This is all you need to know how to read. That was the reason I smiled while you were talking. It's not that you misunderstood the image of an abstract painter, what he meant by it. You have precise information here, no questionable facts where each bank has been and so far is obliged to deliver the general terms of all products to citizens, the precision of getting a report once a year on how much the fee costs. You twist that today begins to be the obligation of the National Bank, the governor who, my God, came here for the first time in six years. I was wondering who you were talking about and if this is the country whose reality we share. We can be different. I've been sitting here as an opposition MP, and I've never been false about voice and trust. Never have those who sit here and support this policy fought falsely for trust. They know that they appreciate all those who sent all these people here to schedule this session, support these legal proposals that we hope to adopt. Indeed in the interest of respecting this house, which is sacred to me, I ask you to speak the language of fact, because it will not be difficult for me to answer every question of yours, but disqualifications and reading superficially, twisting all those words that are written here, twisting the efforts of all of us who work for Serbia's sake, I will not silence you with any untruth. Please show minimum respect for the facts, and I'm here somewhere. I don't mind, he says, saying hello to all the ministers, and I wonder if I'm here, if we forgot to say good day to each other and talk to each other like the people who came here. I didn't come here as a private person. I came as governor. I don't mind. I've put up with a lot of things, and you know what my strength is? The belief that you work in the interests of the Serbian state and the belief that you will achieve the best for the state of Serbia. It's my strength and none of your insults, none of the lies you're saying, no matter what I'm saying in such a energetic way, I'm doing it like that, it won't discourage me from speaking up or making it impossible for me to defend these laws in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37680	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have advertised a member of 103 since the presentation of Maria Janjusevic, the famous microphone pickers in the National Assembly. So, aside from being financed through the organization "My Indjija" financed by Goran Jesic, I offer to her and Bosca Obradovic that if Bosko Obradovic was not a librarian, that is, if he was not a spokesman for the Chačan library, I resign. If their organisation is not from the Colubara at a time when workers were scrambling with nails for their jobs, while they cut their fingers, unless they received 50,000 euros, or 4.2 million dinars in that course of the Kolubara, I will resign. If the funds they received from the state budget, which if they are not spent, are they, Governor, Mr Martinovic, you certainly know that, instead of returning to the budget, they are fictitiously divided by entrepreneurial actions led to candidates or representatives of their political organisation... If that is not true, I am offering my resignation to Bosca Obradovic and Mrs Janjusevic. If my claims are correct, I expect my colleagues to be honest enough in front of this house and that they resign, a team before Bosko Obradovic recently insulted my wife, Bosko Obradovic's latest right-hand man, Dragan Djilas, in this parliament, saying he was wearing a postage and thus threatened her health. Here's a confirmation that that's not true. I don't expect him to apologize. He's a known bully of women, verbal and physical. When it comes to their wife, let's say Jeremic, then there's a crying press conference. Our wives are obviously not women. That's why I expect them to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37682	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37683	... That if I told the truth, they resigned, and if I was telling the truth, I listed the data, I would resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37684	Article 103(1), I didn't give you a direct injury. I hurt the Rules of Procedure, if you want us to vote? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37685	Thank you, President. A member of 109 has been injured as regards a warning to a MP who uses offensive expressions and curses. Dear President, much has changed since today's governor was sitting in these benches, and I mean in these very places where my little one is sitting today. The opposition then had very serious proposals, conducted constructive discussions with the then power. Time has changed a lot today. All you've got is an insult, fiction, lies and bribery. In this regard, about my reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and about the subject explained by MP Obradovic. So where is it going to be more offensive than telling someone, especially the governor of the National Bank to work for someone's foreign interests or God knows whose God knows, and of course it's all unfounded and even more hypocritical if this is told to you by a man who, in the political advice of his own party, has a person who, as a member of the consortium for nuclear physics and security, is doing this in a large Western country, it's about Mrs. Jasmine Vujic, to be clear, says this - there is a critical need to protect ourselves from going into the wrong hands, especially in China, India, Russia. And today you have such a person in the political council of the Bosko Obradovic party. Who works here for whose interests? We, of course, will never forget this, and I ask you not to forget the next time you give a reminder of this offensive expression by article 109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37686	Thank you. I'm trying to run the sessions and make less notices to the MPs. If you think I had to make a note, we'll vote on Article 109's injury. Do you want to vote? No, I don't. I thank you. Ambassador Kostic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37687	You, as chairman, are to take care of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]] For the second time, you won't let me speak to the Rules of Procedure. The first time the ruling coalition speaker insulted our party members and family... Let's stick to it. We're witnesses of how insulting he is... And that's what we've never... as are the members of your party.. that everything the previous speaker said... To the judicial authorities... which is not the case with his family members... We've got a list of all the... Mr. Obradovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37688	Thank you. If you want to vote, I'm not changing my attitude, I'm trying to get this session through the discussion on the subject we have, not to reduce the discussion to personal demeaning and insults. If you think you should, we'll vote. But I appeal then that no one starts this kind of discussion, that we insult each other, but that we talk about the essence, and no one here has stopped anyone from talking for 20 minutes about anything he wants to talk about. No one has prevented MP Obradovic from completing his discussion. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37689	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 103, first of all, states that the MP may indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the infringement has been committed. We had a situation here that the chairman, Gojkovic, gave the word to Governor Tabakovic after the presentation of MP Obradovic. If someone wanted to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, they should have done so immediately after the presentation of MPs Obradovic, not after the presentation of Governor Tabakovic. So, afterwards, she was not allowed by the chairman to give the word after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, unless they wanted to point out something that Governor Tabakovic was wrong about. Furthermore, we have a violation of the same article in the 103st century. 7th and 8. Two MPs from the ruling coalition who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure did not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, but used the time of two minutes for brutal attacks that had nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure against MP Obradovic. I would ask the chairman Gojkovic, that as for the first injury that I have indicated to this parliament, in that case to admit a mistake, in which case we do not have to vote on it, and as far as these other injuries are concerned, to take two minutes for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure to the SNS and I do not know exactly what is called by this second MP of his parliamentary group, as so ordered by Article 103 paragraph 8. Thank you. Otherwise you vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37690	I didn't want to interrupt you so you wouldn't say I had double arches, but a member of 103 who says that immediately after the injury I have to give a word to the MP, we've already discussed it, and I've made an apology to the MP who had to wait and received a word after the presentation of Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic. If you want another five, six times to repeat my apology, I will do so, but you couldn't talk about Article 103(1) again right after the injury was done, so it ends. So the mistake was now yours. I apologized, because I did make a mistake. She received the word of the governor, not Marijan Risticevic, who first raised the Rules of Procedure. This second MP, who you don't know about, is also from a member of the SNS Group, this is all occupied by the SNS, except for a few first lines taken by our coalition partners. I know I'm cute, but what are you gonna do? Someone has to be nice enough to run these sessions. I can't keep the scrawny ones, who don't have a ghost. What do I do? That's the kind of tour that came in. That's it. Now let us get back to the debate, that's what the citizens of Serbia expect from us, and the Rules of Procedure simply has no way. I forgot, I also made another mistake today, because I didn't ask the committee's informers if they wanted a word and now I have to correct that mistake, because I can procedurally give my word now, and that's Aleksandra Tomic, the rapporteur of the Finance Committee. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. I'm sure today will be a day of replication, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, whatever. (Bosko Obradovic: Then the breach of the Rules of Procedure.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37691	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, the debate was very tense, and I think that it was necessary to give word to many MPs who responded to the incoherent comments in the presentation of Governor and Minister Djordjevic. Before I move on as an authorised proposal on the subject, which is the choice of the Commission to protect bidders in public procurement procedures, which is within the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would once again say that what we had the opportunity to hear really has nothing to do with the subject and the proposed laws, today are the flat-rate statements and, on each of these statements today, there are flat-rate statements and each of these statements very easily can be answered for a simple reason, which is, for example, a question of when to return unpaid salaries from companies that were in privatisation and bankruptcy is not the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia. Secondly, when we talk about making it possible to resell certain banks' debt, it is said at the time a bank goes into bankruptcy, what happens to the depositors and their debts. It's normal that there's a legal trail of whoever buys that bank, so it's logical that that debt should be taken over by another bank. So that shows one ignorance at all when you want to attack someone by the nature of those laws that are passed, then you have to really go with the argumentary attack and the sentences, especially when we're talking about the lobbyists of other banks. I must remind you that during the time until 2012, we had tycoons that gave state actions as a guarantee to private banks and thus took loans and burdened the budget of the Republic of Serbia and plus, we also had a "Development Bank of Serbia", "Metals Bank" and "Agrobank" which gave grants to certain political parties for the elections. Therefore, since 2012, it has been gone. And what's very important to say is that a course that moved to 2012 from 84 dinars per euro to 123 dinars per euro had just given NBS the opportunity to open up with banks a business where those who worked for these banks were rich, and in any case they were individuals. So, what's in Serbia's budget today, thanks to the governor of the NBS, has once been poured into private pockets. So it's completely understandable why the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget came into a situation so it won't pay its salaries and pensions. When we talk about those NBS results, it will also be said by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, and I don't think it's going to be a very difficult job at all, I would say only in front of the Committee that as an authorised representative when we elected the Commission to protect bidders in public procurement proceedings, we had an obligation to discuss the ad because there were four candidates, out of the nine who were divided into three courts, who were practically second-degreed decisions in public procurement proceedings, we had an obligation to dispute a public ad, because the mandate for four members of those courts expired on April 1st. We did so within the scheduled deadline of February 20th, so on February 23rd, it is in the list "Politics" and on the site of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that all interested persons, in accordance with the law, who have indeed years of internships conducted in this area, who have passed a judicial exam, can apply for such a contest. Since the conditions of the competition are high, because they seek experience in this work, all six candidates have appeared. Then, in accordance with the practice that we had last year when we chose these candidates, one test was carried out in writing, according to which questions were drawn up under the Law on Public Procurement and under the Law on Administrative Procedure. Of the six candidates, the condition was to set a certain limit. Of the 42 questions that carried one point, 34 points, practically 34 questions should have been answered correctly. What I'd say if it turned out that out of these six candidates, everyone had a really large number of points, and it came down to essentially showing their knowledge on that written test. We were obliged as a committee to conduct oral talks with all candidates. What turned out to be the number of points practically with our impression coincided, and that's what showed that the three candidates who applied for the judicial exam were and carried the highest number of points. So Vesna Gojkovic, Zeljko Grošeta and Vesna Stankovic are candidates who scored the most points with a judicial exam and were our proposal after the talks. And Slavisa Milosevic with 38 points that gained experience at the Public Procurement Administration. In fact, these are four candidates who are the proposal for a decision that we made on 23 May 2018 and established on the Committee itself. I think they had the opportunity and representatives of the opposition parties to simply and participate in this process and participate, when it comes to the work of the commission that conducted the written test, so I think it was hard to make this decision because all the candidates were very good and their knowledge was literally measured somewhere with a few points. I think that today's session really needs to go in some direction of expert debate, that is, a debate that can and if it should bring some revisions in terms of amendments to a certain bill, then it should show the essence of what this Parliament needs to deal with, which is to open up space for citizens to make it easier, simply to carry out procedures with regard to banks. The decision of each user of bank services is his personal right. Secondly, banks are on the capital market, they should simply compete with their services and on the basis of this competition that all Serbian citizens are indeed going towards the best conditions that they will offer on the market at that time. I think that the road actually, which the governor gave with this set of laws, is open somewhere, and all the attacks we've had so far are personal, shows actually that those who want to attack it first, don't know the topic, didn't want to read the bill, and then the easiest thing to do is go to those personal insults, is the type of pay for people who work at the NBS. It is always a flat-rate statement that wants Serbian citizens to turn against institutions, but it does not bring them any benefits. This will bring no benefit to the citizens, not even to those who deal and who have problems with Swiss loans. We had a chance to hear that answer on the board. The answer is that 19 thousand people who really have real problems, who have acquired themselves in many years and before the governor of the NBS is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic these six years. Serbia's budget, which is used by seven million citizens, should not be overrun. Of course, the measures brought by the NBS and forced banks in order and forced them to respect the standards that exist in all international institutions should be the same. It's just these laws that put banks in that line of work. That is why the governor has such a position which may not be popular with bankers today, but simply the bank's habit of having to comply with rules that apply in all developed countries, not only EU members, but also those that respect these standards and are not EU members. I think today's task is to present to the citizens of Serbia as best we can what is good that these laws will be passed, not that we are engaged in attacking for no reason, by political means, because of the cheap political points of individual small parties and parties, movements, so that they simply get a few minutes more ads on RTS. Thank you, ma'am, for not wanting to enter into such debates as are related to certain insults, because it speaks more of them that insult them than of us who wish to respond to such attacks. Thank you for today's time for Serbian citizens to see what the results are in these six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37692	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37693	Dear President, Mrs Tabakovic, Mr Djordjevic, here today is the most important in these previous, what, for three hours, how long this debate has lasted, what counterpart Tomic has said, and this is a great recognition primarily for your work in terms of stability and the course of the euro in Serbia over the past few years. In addition to the political stability that is certainly present, you have put great trust in all those involved in economic stability. So anyone who deals with imports is now freer and much easier to make their plans right. You have done very difficult and very responsible things in these five, six years as you perform your function. I want to take advantage of one opportunity right now, precisely to tell you that you need to continue the tough stuff, and provoked by one title in the daily magazine "Today", on the policy-related side. The title says this way – Nišliji do not give the airport, but they support Vukic. A study has been carried out today, and in this study, regardless of the current situation where citizens have made such or such comments, the research says that when you do some things that people do not accept, but essentially brings benefits to anyone who lives in Nis, when results are produced, the line... (The People's Messenger throws out of place. )......................................................................................................... Unfortunately, your colleague's not here, unfortunately not even your leader. There's Mr. Alexander Vukic again at the top and he's rated with a score of 3.38. The second behind it is Dragan Markovic Palm with a score of 3.13. The third in a row is Mr. Ivica Dacic with 3.03, I have no reason to read any further. So, if you continue at that pace and as you've done so far, I have no doubt in your new mandate and our support will certainly win. When it comes to the Single Serbia parliamentary group, for all ten laws on the agenda today, we will vote. The laws directly related to you from the NBS are the first seven laws, which are: the proposal for a law on the protection of customers of financial services in remote transactions, the draft law on financial security, the draft law on interbank fees and the specific rules of business in payment transactions on the basis of payment cards, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payment Services, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies and the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank of Serbia. What drew my attention in your opening statement is primarily payment cards. It's the last seven, eight, ten years of a thing most Serbian citizens can't get around. Unfortunately, the good part of the public was not even familiar with all the things and costs that follow the use of such a card. What you said today, I'm sorry it's, it's very important and to say, the audience's ratings are on record we're not level. So, the Serbian Parliament is never less viewed than, here's someone recently, recently, a few months ago. What you said today is something that needs to happen again. I ask you to find a way to get the very words you've told us today, such information to the citizens of Serbia. Someone says if it should've been done before, if it should've been done. It's done as much as it can. The fact is that you recognized what was supposed to be done the earliest, which is to stabilize the hot and you did it, the course is stable. This is a thing that can't be solved overnight. All these laws go that way. By voting these laws, citizens will be even safer than they have been before, but of course ignorance is no excuse for anyone. Everyone had to, before they took any credit card or credit card, be well informed. In addition, I want to say the next thing. So, for loans indexed in Swiss, I don't see your guilt, but also a large number of citizens are deceived. We just heard over 20,000 families. I repeat, it is not your fault, but I ask you on behalf of all of us MPs to make a proposal for a concrete solution. We can't wait here long. We can't have the status quo here. It would be correct if, in some period, in the next term, we could get a proposal from you that we could solve this problem together. For me, it is information that 97% of transactions, which happen via payment cards, are made abroad by 80%. I was fraternizing when I heard that. As for citizens and the bank's election, no one should rush to the bank's election. It's the freedom of anyone who receives a salary through an account, through any commercial bank, to go and question the terms. Of course, these conditions are variable and it dictates the market. I can't say that you work for anyone's side, as one of your colleagues said earlier from the SNS, to stretch foreign banks, etc., you did concrete things that most of these banks didn't agree with at one point, but you decided you'd keep doing it and you did it. I support you on that path and it brings us back to that beginning. When you do hard things, the results don't drop. As regards the law relating to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Business Society and the addition of the Bank of Banks, which Mr. Djordjevic explained, colleagues from my parliamentary group will deal with it in more detail, and I will refer to the three laws relating to the validation of different agreements. The first is the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the proposal for a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank, again, for development, I will explain in detail what it is, and this third one relating again to the loan between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, primarily to the financing of the health project. When it comes to this first one, it says that this goal is intended to be reached within three key pillars. I'll only read first and explain why. Stub a) Public expenditure management. The programme development objective of this pillar is to improve, manage public expenditure, strengthen public finance management and reform through, firstly, improve control and record obligations and delays, under two – public administration reform and identify the maximum number of employees on indefinite time in the public sector, and three – mapping jobs to streamline and wage structures in the public sector and adopt sublegal acts accordingly. I don't want to go any further. Why did I read this? Every municipality in Serbia, every city in Serbia with its budget is one small state. So what we do here when it comes to big budgets, that's what municipalities and cities do when it comes to their budgets. At my place, where I come from, and I come from Vranjačka Banja municipality, we have a situation where the president of the municipality should respect this before all of this, but the president of the municipality of this rationalization, at least as we do, use his position to hire his narrow and wider family first. If today, from the United Serbia, at the Republic level, we support all these agreements and laws, and they have in their end what they are intended for, then I ask you to find a mechanism for officials representing municipalities and cities to draw attention that they do not abuse this exactly. Another thing I would like to hear, which is what I said to the Minister of Health at least three times here at the tide, and I made a firm promise that we would solve it, and yet it can also concern the bill on confirming the loan agreement, additional funding for the second Serbian health development project. For seven years there has been equipment for dialysis in Vranjska Banja. In Vrnjačka Banja, which is a large tourist resort and a large number of people who have a health obligation and have to visit such centres, do not come because this department is not in office. All people who have such health problems travel to the Kingdom, 25 km each day for dialysis and return, and with us, the equipment stands in the cellophane. Locked is a space that is fully equipped for dialysis in terms of infrastructure, facilities, beds, rooms, etc. I ask you that if you have a chance in the government, Mr. Gjorgevic, let me tell you, tell your colleagues at a meeting, I will be here when I take the opportunity to have my colleagues back here today to sit in front of us, as you do today, tell them that this problem is finally solved. So this doesn't take much extra money. This is what's in the cellophane. I personally think this has a deadline. If for some reason, I don't know what it's like, they don't want to run in Vronjska Banja, let's give it to someone who'll use it the right way. Once again, as far as all laws are concerned, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these laws. I believe that Mrs. Governor, in her next term, and these things that are not yet finished will be over. I'm turning my attention again, you're not responsible, and it's not your fault what happened to the loans indexed in the Swiss francs, but I'm asking you to offer us a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37694	Thank you, colleague Vujic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37695	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the esteemed governor, distinguished ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a set of five laws that are directly related to the National Bank of Serbia and one law that results from the amendment of these five laws and one law which, I say, is more based on other things, also three very important international loan agreements. When it comes to these first five laws regarding the National Bank of Serbia, I can say one thing that these laws are something we have long been waiting for. But what remains as my big question, especially the law regarding credit and card fees, and why have we waited so long? So, there are people who have been pointing out for years to force cash into the economy, because for relatively small transactions, and there are a lot of small transactions in Serbia, it's almost not worth selling goods to people with str's. So if someone comes and buys you 200 dinars, and you pay a high fixed fee, you can't earn anything, you're even at a loss. So, I deeply welcome that these five laws were put before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but what deeply saddens me is that we had to wait a long time, and I especially believe that it grieves the people who at some point decided to even throw out and posterize from their shops. But, how can I say, that was, and now we have something that should probably be better. I deeply support the desire for a serious debate, because although I am probably the man who most likely loves freedom of speech and considers it sacred and freedom of speech to mean and to say both the smart and the things that are slightly different, I think that serious debate requires at least minimal knowledge of matter and, therefore, it is very good if we have as much serious debate as possible about things that can really improve the lives of Serbian citizens. It is also very important that we have a serious debate when we discuss in detail and discuss in detail all things, not two members. I hope it does, because there's no reason to have two days of serious debate, let's say three days of debate that's a little different. When it comes, since this is still a debate on the principle of the achievements of the National Bank of Serbia, I will leave it more when there is a debate on the choice of governor, which is soon to follow us, because it has been six years, what is certain is that the results exist, and this is very good results when it comes to inflation, exchange rate stability and interest rates, and this is for every praise, since this is the core task of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia, like any central bank, exists to ensure that we have stable money, because stable money is a sense in itself. All of this other stuff is, as I say, a very creative interpretation of what the central bank is for. Now we're going a little bit higher on these laws that are related to the National Bank of Serbia. When it comes to legislation dealing with collateral issues, it is a good thing that the law comes to the agenda, because at this point we live in a country where the financial market dies. The changes in the Belgrade Stock Exchange are such that, as I say, sometimes you feel that in their time better exchanges in Belgrade have had stronger traffic, though, and the governor has somehow killed good traffic exchanges with the stability of the course, so you can see that every thing has some side effects. By the way, joke aside, the financial market in Serbia is really calming and it is necessary to do everything to bring the financial market back to life. It is good that the collaterals open up the possibility that the financial market, both stock market and out-of-berrant, can live in areas of values that are very important for you in our country to manage both debt and risks. It is a very good thing, and in the very text of the law, it is difficult to find a bigger remark, especially considering that the law is also written and that it is within a beautiful continent called Chapter 17, which I would not speak of in detail now, since it is still, as it would say, with a limited approach. Also, the good institution that appears in this law is that you have a close-out netting institution that has been translated here as a net exposure, but I would prefer the term final balance, though I say, very often it is a matter of practice and which expression will liven up. For a long time, we had a dilemma about whether we had financial derivatives or derivatives, since some of these first reminded us of oil derivatives, but we adopted this first terminology as official terminology in Serbia. This institution close-out netting helps greatly to ensure that a large amount of activity is not captured and unproductive for a longer period of time, but that it is released through the final salination institution for a good part of it and, of course, for the purposes of which it is productive. So it's very important that you always have the protection of all creditors in bankruptcy processes, but when you have a lot of connected creditors with related interests, it's totally pointless that you don't come to a net position and property that serves to develop businesses and simply release it from being used in a productive way. I say again, it's very good, it's an international financial institution that exists in the world. I say again, it's a shame we waited so long, but again, I'll say it one more time, better ever than never. The second thing about fees, it was also a principle remark, it's very good that the fees are reduced to 0.2% and 0.3%, with one transitional period. It's very bad, I say, what we've been waiting for and implicitly stimulated the cash economy. I have nothing against cash as such, but cash usually has some side effects when a country uses a lot of cash in payments and usually the consequences of making it easier to deal with certain businesses that are not very desirable or illegal or are in the gray sector. So, on the other hand, it's very good that we've cut the fees and what's finally going to be possible now is that you have a lot of fine payment card transactions, and that we're benefiting from these petty payment cards not paying traders out of your pocket, which is, we'll assume, a pretty bad thing. In some ways, it reminds me of when we have some problems in some other areas, let's say, for years in the European Union, for example, it should end up with big roaming fees and at one point it's over. So the payment card situation reminded me incredibly of it and it's good, I say once again, the thing that's over with it. It is also commendable that you have an institution to separate fees (eng. Unbling) and it's one very good thing in the whole bill. So, on the other hand, both law and law will bring net positive effects and, I say, it's my regret that it didn't happen much earlier, because it would have been much better if that was the situation. I'm going to go back to this collateral law, it's very important that we create the possibility that we have better public debt management and better governance and through currency structure and better risk management, but what I do, as someone who likes to talk more about the economy privately, is very important that it will be able to manage the same risks better and private sector. Also, to welcome is that the way the collateral is defined is much better than it has ever been and that's another thing that's really worth welcoming at this point in time in the solutions that exist in this law. When it comes to a law that allows distance contracts to be concluded, distance contracts already exist, of course, in the banking sector of Serbia banks have been going a lot in the direction of e-banking, which is completely understandable, because one of the most unnecessary costs in the world for banks is, of course, that they have many offices in which the business is not performed electronically but traditionally and the banks have indeed had an interest in being themselves the biggest promoters and business and in general electronic business in the state administration and in the private sector. On this side, the sector has been developing quite well, I must admit, but the law defines some solutions that allow certain traps to be avoided as a result of unequal knowledge. Unequal knowledge is usually a big problem when you enter any kind of relationship, whether it's contractual, whether it's a debate, and most often the one who doesn't have enough knowledge pulls out the thick end. For example, when someone who does not have enough knowledge about the banking sector and particularly enough legal power enters a long-distance transaction, it is a great incentive for the bank to try to use that knowledge asymmetry. On this side, it's good that some solutions have been introduced, and I welcome this observation that two-factory identification is quite enough for transactions of up to 600,000. Two-factory identification is usually a good way to protect yourself and most banks apply it. It's very difficult to fall in two places at the same time, and even if you do fall, it's your own fault that someone takes your cell phone, your phone number and your card, and this other data. Then I think it's not even the bank, it's the one who's careless of his own property. For over 600,000, it's okay that there's an electronic signature, for some other reason. It's more about protecting legal persons. In the NBS Act, as far as I can see, the essence is that one Board of Supervisors has been disbanded, which is attached to the other body of the NBS. It's a matter of assessment of NBS, and it's a good thing that exchange jobs are returned under the auspices of the NBS, because that's the nature of the rights, and they belong, and also by the elemental logic. With payment services, which is the fifth law in this set, one question remains quite interesting to me. Therefore, it is said that if a certain loss arises as a result of the loss of the payer, there is no greater obligation of the bank than 3000. Whether in this case, specifically, I'm going to ask a question that will be a little bit, even act laity, but I'm extremely interested, does that mean, if someone for example. For example, it loses a card that's unconnected, does that mean that if that person doesn't notice the loss of a card in time, it's got to admit one big irresponsibility, does that still mean that the bank fits up to 3,000, i.e. that the user of that card corresponds to up to 3,000? Because in that case, how can I say, they're put in a slightly privileged position compared to someone who loses their cash? And, in fact, is that how we roll over, and it's always very nice to broadcast new rights, I know that, and create a society where people don't want to take risks and personal responsibility, and that always sounds good, so does that apply to this kind of card, and if it does, what's that for? Because, I'm saying, it would actually encourage, most of the time, the cost of someone's loss of a card or the abuse of another instrument of payment traffic to those who approach it with due attention. All in all these five laws are in principle good and are a solid improvement and will benefit consumers in Serbia, indeed, and users of all services, both banking and financial markets. They are not, of course, the only laws that we need to pass, many of them are outlined in the plan, in Chapter 17, and I can say that we have a lot of work to do here. But, I say, these five laws are something that, at least in the MP group of MPs, we don't have any fundamental objections. We'll talk about minor objections when the time comes for discussion in principle, if it comes at all. When it comes to laws on companies, it is very good to point out that there are improvements that will allow us to have more administrations in Serbia, and that in fact, we become one beautiful day e-Serbia, a country based on electronic technologies, and in general, on information technologies, which is actually a great pleasure, both for citizens and business. What creates a certain dose to me, to say the discomfort, are institutions that are mentioned, related to the forced purchase of incompatible minority shareholders. That's the reason for a certain dose of skepticism, when it comes to the law in general. When it comes to e-business solutions, solutions are in place. When it comes to other things that are consequences, I say again, of our agreement, with another chapter, when it comes to Serbia's journey to the EU, when it comes to Chapter 6. We also have some things to do here, but essentially, there are no big problems that have come from the EU. Moreover, Chapter 6 is expected to be quite simple for us, in contrast, I repeat again, from some other chapters. So, my question will be for the minister, to explain in a little more detail the institution of a forced buyout with incompatible minority shareholders, because, as for human rights, and in everything else and democracy, it is crucial, as you treat the minority, so in action, it is an extremely crucial thing as you treat minority shareholders. In fact, it builds the success of a society in the area of corporation, in the general field of action. Action is one of the areas in Serbia that helmets. It is therefore important to have the best possible solutions so that we can enjoy all the benefits of companies that were created as a result of someone’s initiative, not most often as a result of the change in the ownership status of enterprises, which were once in public or state ownership. When it comes to the law on bankruptcy, this law is indeed conditional, you are absolutely right, and most of the changes refer to the “close-out netting”, or institution of final balance, and these changes will say, much contribute to the fact that bankruptcy proceedings work better, more effectively. Of course, any amendments to the law, including these other six, draws the opportunity to discover that there may be some consequences that may be bad, that any law can be misused through a sublegal act and that is all possible, but the institution itself “close-out netting” is a good thing for the efficiency of the bankruptcy process. Finally, we have three laws concerning loans with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. When it comes to the arrangements of the Republic of Serbia with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the good thing of these laws is that lenders in this case are very interested in how money will be spent and highly interested in the effects of these laws. Usually before you can withdraw funds, you have to do something. It is not only in principle that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development believes that Serbia will be able to recover that money from the budget because at this point, no one has any doubts that Serbia can service the debt, but is looking for something more, asking for results so that you can draw money. The interest rates themselves, the access fee itself, and the other fees themselves have been defined in a way that at this point is not possible for the Republic of Serbia and the task of this type with a good programme has an excuse. However, what the IBRD can't tell you, which I said a year ago when he was the second minister, in fact he was the former finance minister at the time, was when we discussed these laws, and it can never make you IBRD make you do not automatically restructure Serbia and EPS railways. Both of these jobs that, as Republics of Serbia, will give us certain funds that, in the case of the EPS and the Railways of Serbia, amount to 160m euros, no one can force you to do your own work and not look for any holes in the programme that you yourself have defined. It is the key task of those who manage these two large systems. One hundred and sixty million for the purposes designed in law can raise these two systems to one level that will be quite good for me to like my parliamentary group, these companies will one day take place on the stock market and be in service, both the citizens of Serbia and the investors and the development of the entire financial sector. These two companies could give you a great swing, but they're not mature for that kind of thing today. So the whole story of these 160 million is not whether we're going to have control and whether the purposes that are designed in these laws are the best possible, but whether and for the first level of control, we're going to have a really right impact measurement and we're not going to try to be smarter, at least those who manage these systems both from the program itself and from the desire to set these systems up. This is one serious task, and I think we will discuss in principle many more times how these two systems are being set up, because they are still far from being set up in a way that would make the real development resources of Serbia, but what is a pity, if we ever lose time in that process, we will lose some very good things. When it comes to 25 million dollars for healthcare, yes, it certainly is something that we need, but what our health needs is to stop reforming it with an axe and make it now, as we highlight the existing Health Protection Strategy in Serbia, to make a new strategy that will meet these challenges, and where it will not be the only challenge to chop up the axes, but to try to make a more reasonable way of managing, both efficiency and management, or management of the health sector, because we are still enslaved by some delusions, so we are studying between the political governance in the health sector and managing that it is run by doctors. In practice, neither, nor the other solution is the happiest and there should be thought and that, in fact, at the head of the health sector institutions, there must be teams in which you have managers, professional and people in health care and that we can only achieve that our health care is not a problem at this time. There can also be mentioned point 3b in the whole arrangement, where one area that is highly politicized in our country stands out and is very often used in a way that is not good, and this is a debate about how many cancer patients are and how many people die from it. So there's a lot of things in health care that can be solved and I think this 25 million is totally fine, but the thing is, I say, how are we gonna use it. Finally, we also have a law related to the Post Office and other financial institutions. Experience has told us that so far we have had real problems with the fact that very domestic institutions in the financial sector have not functioned very well, and that we have had much better results with some other institution, where we were not owners. It would be good for us to once come to the point that domestic financial institutions can, as well as, work as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37696	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37697	I can't miss the chance, it would be a sin, not to commend your preparation by the laws, especially those proposed by the National Bank of Serbia, and I'm trying to figure out if you were in the middle of the public debate we had all the time, especially by the Financial Security Act, which the maltenes lasted until the other day, but it was formally and roughly completed at the end of 2016. Congratulations and I wonder how the reference to this level of your discussion will now be reached. Just because you've spoken so perfectly and in detail about these laws, I owe you one little correction, don't blame me. The financial market infrastructure is at nine, not in seventeen, and it's my only correction, not a grudge, but I owe you an explanation of what we've been waiting for so far with the limitation of interbank fees. The European Union did so in 2015/2016. A year. A lot of people in our neighborhood aren't trying to do that. We did it so it took five months for a public debate. We ended it in September 2017 and we wanted all interested participants, because there are huge interests, huge habits of those who are used to having everything, to make a concrete contribution to some constructive solutions. Yes, we deserve to comment on what we've been waiting for so far, but at the moment that we've come to you with these solutions, we're ready to defend every member and every member's position until the end, knowing that this is a solution that can no longer wait and that can't be relativized in any way. Thanks again, and I'd like to keep talking like this. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37698	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37699	Your Honor, let me answer your question as to your concerns about minority shareholders. In fact, this law did not essentially touch the rights of smaller shareholders, nor fundamentally changed the law, it merely specified and, if I may say so freely, their rights were even increased and not reduced at all. This seemed to be this draft law from Articles 515 to 523. Article 515. The law provides that a decision on the forced purchase of all actions of the remaining shareholders of society is taken regardless of the burdens, prohibitions of availability, restrictions and rights of third parties on those actions, since in practice the previous formulation has caused doubt, whether the actions on which the pledge was established could be subject to forced redemption. Article 516. The law, the amended provision, sets out in detail and chronological order that the decision itself and the forced ransom should establish the price of actions which are subject to forced purchase, as well as the issue of registration, the delivery of decisions to the Central Register, as well as the deposit of funds for payment of the price. It is also arranged for the method and time limit of payment of the price to be made in accordance with the rules of business, i.e. to be entered on the account of the purchaser, without the burden of prohibition of the availability, restrictions and rights of third parties, it is stated, for the reason that Article 515 of Article 1. The law provides for a decision on a forced ransom to be made regardless of the burden. Article 519. The law shall be deleted for the reason that amendments to Article 516 regulate the issue of registration, or the decision on forced purchase, as well as its delivery to the central register. Article 521. The law and the same is precise by deleting from the same provisions that have caused confusion in practice. Namely, a provision which has been prescribed that the competent court informs the Central Register, the Depository and the clearing of the securities of value for the purpose of suspending the price of shareholders whose actions are subject to an emergency ransom, if the application for a competent court is submitted in an out-of-party procedure, determines the value of those actions. The provision was deleted for the reason that it created problems in practice in terms of suspending the price payment to all shareholders, it makes no sense, as well as because it is not a matter of suspending the procedure. The proposal for a law in full changes and Article 522. The law due to the need for a large number of interventions in its provisions. The existing provision was insufficiently precise and there was a need for the provisions to be systematised in the situation if the company did not determine the price for the purchase of the shares, so it was given protection to the control shareholder so that it could make it possible for the competent outside court to determine the price. The amended provision also provides an answer to the question of what happens if the price is not paid, and a provision has been introduced that, if the control shareholder fails to pay the determined value of the action, the shareholder may file a complaint to the competent court for payment. Perhaps the most detailed in the case of smaller shareholders, it is a bill that specifies 523 members of the law, which is in line with the Act on the acquisition of a company, which does not distinguish between the price in a voluntary and binding offer. In both cases, the price is formed in the same way, so minority shareholders will not be in a more unfavourable position than existing norms. So here's the answer to the question that it hasn't essentially changed. It was precise, and it was taken care of by minority shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37700	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37701	Thank you. I also think these are good laws, so I'm surprised why I'm making another mistake with that overnight appointment. It's not the fault of the National Bank. It's probably not even the minister's fault. This has to do with the leadership of the Assembly, or the president, probably, which determines when it is scheduled. It will be said that the urgency was primary. Then why wasn't there a session yesterday? Because yesterday was the last Thursday of the month, so they had to be parliamentary questions. There's no need to spoil something that's good with one matchmaking relationship to the public. So the laws of the National Bank that have come, along with some perhaps small cosmetic changes, may be in the dictionary and some things, but generally something that is good. I agree with my colleagues who said it could have been sooner. I also agree that the governor confessed and that she was sorry that it couldn't have happened sooner. We have these five laws and one is relying on good work, this first, remote contract, on the 2002 EU directive, the Financial Security Act on the 2008 directive, payment cards on 2015, payment services on 2014. It's all right, and it should go on like that. Great, good, very good experiences that someone else had in this area should be applied to us. If public debate is a problem for delaying the adoption of a bill like this, then let's find a way. So let's see what the problem was, let's not get into it now. There's no need for us to make the whole thing more fissile, but to make it more effective in the next period. Of course all Serbian citizens know that banks are not humanitarian institutions, whether they are domestic or foreign. Technically, they're all domestic, except they own most of them as strangers. And of course it still needs to, and it has to be repeated over and over again, I expect the governor to say that – read small letters, watch what people from the bank are offering you, or bankers. It's like that everywhere. There's not a single country in the world where the bank is good to its commissioners. On the contrary, she's here trying to find a good profit or extra profit. The responsibility of the state is to constantly warn citizens of the possible negative consequences of their decisions that have been hasty. Not to get back into the subject of these loans in Swiss francs and some other stuff, but that's where the state missed in its time, and also later, to do more. I expect to get some new solutions here. As far as the laws on the government's proposal are concerned, I don't want to burden a minister who doesn't have a portfolio. With all due respect, Minister Djordjevic and what he did, but simply, I don't think it's fair to the MPs of the Assembly, regardless of which parties, opposition or majority, they don't have an adequate representative of the government. If the economy minister is justifiably absent, then he can either be replaced by the prime minister or possibly by the finance minister. These are the people who, according to their resources, should be an adequate replacement. With the agreement of some predecessors that solid laws are also proposed, I would not like to discuss this with the present minister. I'd have one note that this is a seal removal, it's the second time, as I remember it, the first time it was lifted five or six years ago, if I remember it well, but if this is the second time that we don't need a third time, I'll be happy with this. Of course it's good to improve the business environment, whether it's payments made by both citizens and business entities, whether it's a business that deals with this other law that contains and abolishes the seals, but I think the state administration is still making huge problems by not applying its digitalisation strategy, on business through e-government. It's a very bad thing. Wherever you go, there are huge layers of paper waiting for you again. Here, look at how we get the materials. There's a thousand pages here, over a kilo. Is that necessary? That's what MPs get. It's probably what the ministers get in front of the government. But then it spreads everywhere - local self-government, according to the province administration. We have huge amounts of paper. I don't want to tell the story of ecology now, even though it's important. But it's just a relationship to your job. So, civil servants, of course, first of all MPs, ministers and other high-ranking officials, must use the Internet as a means of communication and only one who cannot really read from a display or has some other read problem, desire or reading ability, to print it out and find someone who will read it to him. But, in general, we're throwing huge money and destroying a lot of things from nature. What's worse -- we're creating an atmosphere from the early 20th century, where there's a tent, where there's a bureaucrat and there's an unfortunate citizen. And it has to change. It's not just an objection to this government, it's been before. But I think it's about time we got out of it. Therefore, I think we gave positive assessments, me and some colleagues, and that the governor will be pleased with the reception in parliament. If it was six years or two ago, I don't remember, but it doesn't matter. But it would be good if obviously the knowledge she has, and the knowledge of her associates, was used for educational purposes as well. It would be very nice if the governor who, if I were not mistaken and the deputy president of the Serbian Progressive Party... (Jorganka Tabakovic: Frozen. ) Thank God, you're alive, you're not frozen, but let's say you're out of function, which is usually a paradox, but I don't want to get into it right now. That's not good, and you know it. But it would be good for you to educate your colleagues, and your president, and colleagues of the Minister of Economy, in the field of truth, so that you can teach them, you know that as a doctor of science, and also to pass on to them to learn that the public debt of 24 billion euros is greater than the public debt of 14 billion. So if six years ago it was 14 billion, and today it's 24, you have to tell them the sad truth and the secret and the high scientific conclusion that 24 is more than 14. I understand it's hard to understand. I understand that there are different problems to come up with this real understanding, but if you repeat it multiple times, every day, or maybe at night, by walking from the bookstore to the bookstore or somewhere, to learn that 24, even if it was billions, that it was more than 14 billion, and not less. To teach them that it's impossible for citizens to cheat by talking about some bad things, let's say debts, deficits, that it's expressed in euros. So it is said, yes, there is a deficit of one million euros. And when it comes to some good things, it's supposed to say -- well, there's a surplus of 120 million dinars. They know that it's the same thing, that a million euros is about 120 million dinars. To teach them, too, that budget surplus isn't a good thing and there's only one worse thing out of budget deficits, and that's a surplus. Especially if it's due to bad planning, or it's the result of non-financing of something that was necessary, to keep money, or to avoid some big jobs that were also to be financed from the budget. The balance of budget is what's good for both the government and the budget and the whole state. It's not a surplus. Explain that to them. Please also explain that in the last 4-5 years, GDP growth in Serbia has been somewhere barely over 1% and that it cannot possibly be the most in the region, or the most in Europe. On the contrary, that is the least of it. In five or six years, we one skip 1% of annual GDP growth. And that's a very bad thing. That can't change by lying. Explain that employment has been reduced from 26% to 12, 13% or as much as they say now, only by changing methodology and leaving young people and capable people from the bureau, not to companies, but abroad. And that the nominal number of employees was changed very little and that it was still smaller than in 2003, for example, and that it was impossible for employment to be so successful, large and wide without growing GDP. So, where do these people work? What are they making? Let's go over some of the first lessons from the party for economists, and then we'll know what we're talking about. So they commend the National Bank team, the governor and her billing team, regretting it wasn't before. I hope that the next laws that come from the NBS will be faster, or sooner to respond, to be good, but also to be in their implementation, adoption, faster than that was with this. In principle, I also support these laws that have been passed, which are proposed on behalf of the Government. In order not to be all idyllic, I have to take advantage of the governor's presence and ask her to give an answer, otherwise I propose here for almost a year to educate the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit to work with the insurance company "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. They say, and I'm willing not to stand by anyone's side, but to come to the fact that the NBS's responsibility for withdrawing the license to work on this insurance, because it's stated that due to the lack of technical reserves, it's been shut down, and in fact a later analysis has led to these reserves being above the levels that are present with other insurance. In order to establish responsibility for the destroyed reputation of the firm and its owner, responsibility for 108 employees who had lost their jobs and to determine whether the legal service of the NBS was in place to withdraw the permit for the work of the shareholder insurance company “Such Insurance” Kragujevac and whether the winding-up procedure of this insurance established that there was no need to withdraw the work permit. I think the Serbian public, not only these 408 families from Kragujevac, not only the owner or owner of that insurance, which, as far as I understand it, should have been sold to some other foreign insurance company, and you as an institution, and perhaps even you are personally accused of preventing it from protecting the interests of competition. I'm not a judge, I don't want to judge, but I think the Serbian public should get an adequate answer on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37702	Thank you. Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37703	Mr. Zivkovic, you are so little, as I would say, trying to likably all to put one serious topic in such a humorous framework. First of all, it's humor to tell me I need to teach the president. If there were no political will and no political stability, I could not even talk about the effects of the National Bank of Serbia, financial stability and the stability of the relative course and low stable inflation. If it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic as prime minister, who established that co-ordination of monetary and fiscal policy and not sharing these same value systems as it is for his country, I wouldn't be sitting here today, nor could you say that today's rate is 118.16, you're paying for one euro, and that the National Bank of Serbia with today's day has created reserves, only this year, of more than 780m euros for the turbulent times coming from the environment. I don't need to take other people's credit, I have enough of those on the team that's called the state of Serbia where they know who's doing what. And may I be resented by whoever will, it was quite difficult for me when the merits of an IMF arrangement, in which the interests of Serbian citizens were defended, did not listen to the advice, it was our arrangement, but the recommendations were implemented so that it was in the interest of the citizens and in accordance with the difficult moment assigned to others, because I know that, I was attending the talks and I don't want to wait for someone to write memoirs, I want to say today publicly - that there was no political will, the force behind that man, and you're asking me to teach him, there would be no arrangements, no such stability, no such results, or these sessions today, I say. What has been happening in Italy for the last two days has raised the risk premium in all countries in the environment. This very instability about forming a government, we have had five election cycles here, neither the abuse of monetary policy, nor any measure was applied differently, nor any behavior was different, because the state was ahead of cheap political points, in front of personal interest and everything else. Now you're saying that someone isn't dressed enough, instructed or not to know. And whose results are these? Whose credit is Serbia on the lists of the most prominent, on the lists of those to be discussed with, well, if you will, and on the list of countries that have a currency second in power, and I found the fourth worst? It's not just my score. Why do you have the right to claim that? Because you're playing with statistics. Sometimes you use percentages, sometimes you use absolute figures, so you tell me about absolute public debt numbers, which is bigger, and what's less. Kids in elementary school know that. Public debt is measured against GDP, compared to gross social product. It's the only measure we can talk about. That's why we're working on GDP growth, and you're so nice to cut it out, who's ours with interbank credits, the most expensive cards and the cheapest home "Dino" and the average tolerable. That's not true. So neither can we talk about the negative growth rates and commitments to the IMF from 2009, which amounted to a billion and 600, and which returned this country from 2012 until recently. Dinar One, the euro one has no debt to the IMF, no cost to the arrangement. So, what do you think, I'm genius? Or was Vujovic brilliant? He was great. But it's just hard for me when you inherit those results, saying -- this one's due, and these others are getting old. Well, without that political stability that we have today, which is the cornerstone of everything, there's no story of other stability. But as far as you're concerned, I can only call it humor, it's simply not a serious debate for me, I'm sorry, but I have to, as the humorous story of the failure of "Such Insurance" is to blame someone else, not a shareholder who, by unintentionally detachment, brought his insurance company and his employees into a situation to be deprived of their license. And we've waited a long time as an institution and as a system. I inherited the soft heart of the National Bank’s organ according to “such insurance. ” And I've been someone who's given them more opportunities to execute the separation and adequately cover the technical reserves, not on the reporting dates, so we don't want to play cat and mouse, it's known that in continuity you have to have a certain level of technical reserves. According to the Insurance Act, which was valid in 2004 to 2015, there was simply no other solution than to withdraw the "Such Insurance", more warnings and expectations of these alleged investors, applications, talks and ultimately had to be withdrawn. What is important to know is that the court procedure led by confirmation of the correctness of our decision, i.e. that the owners of "Such Insurance" have lost the dispute and all their power to extend the story in the media is simply lost to the significance, power, so I wonder to you who is the man who has made a joke with these averages, figures, public debt and others, that you have even asked this question, if we have repeatedly and always consistently and equally corresponded to the media and everyone else why "Such Insurance" actually came into this situation. "Such insurance" and everything that had to be delicensated has been shared impartially as I am doing my job today. I don't look at bank tables, I don't look at boards, I don't look at who owns them. If I boast, it is the stability of the exchange rate, relative, which is stability for both importers and exporters, and for those who lend loans, and for those who take loans, and for those who save and for those who borrow, because the only point in which the interests of all are combined is stability. The relationship between the governors responsible for this parliament here and those who vote for this parliament is the impartiality that I have and which I have proven by the way in which these proceedings have been led, ended and who remain the right person of the NBS who takes care of financial stability by not having a soft heart to anyone and responsibility for those 108 employees and all others bearing an exclusive shareholder in the same way that the court ruled and that small shareholders do not have the right to demand any kind of liability from the National Bank for Agrobank, because they had mechanisms and ways to protect their interests as shareholders. After all, we discussed here, again someone forgot that I was in 2015, introducing one new role of NBS, which is to restructure banks where it's beautifully prescribed as first, second, and third is to risk the bank's business in terms of damage done. Very highly ranked, firstly called shareholders. You know, shareholders can't act like owners who don't live on their property. They can't justify themselves to the masked managers who gave them false reports. You know, people are either superficial in business or deliberately murmuring in one eye. When the problem occurs, someone else would like to bear the cost of not doing them or having a superficial relationship with their own property. The National Bank of Serbia has no right to exceed the costs of any irresponsible behaviour or superficial relationship or belief in audits and other reports and to carry the cost of Serbian citizens over the budget, and through secured deposits or through whatever directives you have mentioned yourself, some of them, and some of them are not the latest, for example, restructuring, we are in the EU's ranks, where we care about security, and we are obliged to adhere to that. Since you and I have been colleagues since 1993, if I remember from the first call, here, I will privatize my function and our relationship to you, to deliver to you everything that can be publicly delivered from the court proceedings regarding "Such Insurance" and to see that there is absolutely no comma in which the NBS has done wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37704	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37705	So thank you for your comprehensive answer. I don't know why in one part you were in such a slightly negative emotional mood. You've been complimented on my part. I can't exactly compliment our president, you know that and there are not only political reasons, but also reasons for the facts. Of course, the nominal value ratio of the public debt and the percentage of participation in GDP is important. How is it possible for public debt to increase by six years by 10 billion, which comes to it about 70% compared to the ones found and GDP growth is 1% a year? That's a little hard, let's make it a percentage, that can't be more than 10%. Let's be broad-handed, and the public debt has increased 70%. So that explanation is very interesting to you, but it's not funny and comical, as you say to me, it's tragic. Of course, I remember some other governments, say, those governments from the late '90s that left a debt that was 210% of GDP in 2000, was that so? (Jorganka Tabakovic throws.) Just for me to finish, I didn't interrupt. No matter how long we've known each other to stay for the institution, because of the body, and then from 2000 till the end of 2003, that debt is reduced by good 30%, 40%, so I'm not boasting because it was of course a normal thing, and we don't praise anyone, everyone does their part of the job, but despite all that and the nice words that you have to direct to the president of your party or...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37706	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37707	... Which is even worse, but it's 24 bigger than 14, it's always going to stay. (Jorganka Tabakovic: Come to the National Bank for a little training. I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, You didn't shut me out, so I'm using the right to abuse a pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37708	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Gone System. It's not the system that's gone, but we're giving you a chance to talk, of course. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. - a violation of dignity. Mr. Zivkovic is my colleague in an attempt, a fellow farmer. Otherwise, a big supporter of the Red Berets he set up, a few months before the prime minister's murder, a party in The Tower. Now something about debt, because from that time on, he was talking. The debt is reduced thanks to... (Zoran Zivkovic: What does this have to do with the Rules of Procedure? Injury of dignity. So, he hurt his dignity by not saying that the debt was reduced because the Paris and the London Club had forgiven somewhere between four and five billion debts, which affected the 2003 cut. He also forgot to say that they sold the entire social economy by 6.7 billion, that donor support was 4.5 billion and that, apart from this 17 billion debt, it was the debt they spent from 15 billion. So he forgot a lot, but it wasn't me. He was talking about interest, the one who borrowed. Here, I hold the contract here on 21 June 2012, between Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Zivkovic, you can see here and the signatures, that Zoran Zivkovic borrowed money from Zoran Zivkovic – 41 thousand euros at an interest rate of 10%. Just a moment, very interesting. Zoran Zivkovic loaned Zoran Zivkovic a year at an interest rate of 10%, he was also a bank, 10% a year, but it is interesting, he says, the contract can only be extended in writing with mutual agreement between the parties. Now imagine the mutual agreement between Zoran J. That's why it's unreasonablely difficult to explain that he's unreasonable, that he can and wouldn't be unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37710	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a national message from Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Governor, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a whole series of laws and loan agreements, and a little less than 48 hours ago we got this material to read and prepare. You'll admit that it's a Russian classic that I'm sure we're all happy to read and easily read and drink, in 48 hours, it's not possible to read all this and prepare well for discussion. I apologize in advance for the fact that my discussion of this is going to be very lacking and that I am not going to be able to touch all the laws, but only some of them I could study and read. Of course, there are also those in these laws who are very good, and I am taking the opportunity to praise and commend some of them, and certain laws cause some doubts that I would like to discuss and discuss here together. First, we have this Bill on the Protection of Users of Financial Services in Remote Contracting, and it is quite clear that the general text of the Bills is so immersed in the idea of improving the protection of users of online financial services, i.e. online consumers. I have an objection to a solution in Article 13, which regulates the possibility for consumers to give up the contract without consequence, as well as certain exceptions where this is not possible, by a wave of justification, except in one case which I consider unwarranted. I will read – the user does not have the right to withdraw from Article 1 of this Article in the event of the conclusion of the following contracts: remote credit contracts provided by mortgages, as well as remote contracts the subject of which is the purchase of immovable property, i.e. the financing of such purchase, if credit assets have been transferred to the user, i.e. funds for this financing. My question is, why couldn't he give up if he made a full refund of funds while informing me of the contract's termination? I have the impression here that in this place, business banks are still favoured as suppliers of specific financial services. Maybe my impression is wrong, but that's what happens. I don't think banks should, that they should not continue to favour them in this sense, because we all know well that they were very well incomed, that they were incomed in 2017 half a billion euros. Also, the law protects users from providing and charging services they did not ask for. This is excellent in theory, however, in practice it seems quite different. It happened to me personally, and to many of my friends that they had to pay 180, 360, and even 2,000 dinars to a domestic telephone provider for some services they had no idea what they were for, which were services that were related to a company sitting in Switzerland, or Luxembourg. When I went there, I was told that I had to watch me push the buttons, because I could accidentally press a button that would then lead me to those debts. Of course, it's not your fault, I'm simply making it an example. Also, if you're traveling, let's say, to Er Serbia, and on-line you work, then there's an option -- the reservation of seats. And then, if you go further, you won't be given without that reservation seat and it's paid, it seems to me, some 480 dinars in one direction, so, without a little 1,000 dinars in both directions, but then it's said again, well, it shouldn't, there's a little button down there on the left that allows you to move on. So one thing is practice, the other is theory, and in theory everything is good. However, we are far from doing things properly and simply as if in our society we have institutionalized fraud and that if it passes now, it has passed. We still have a bill on interbank fees. I really support everything here, and there are many things you've explained even to me who I'm a medic, so I don't understand anything, something I've really learned from this law, and I certainly support that these interbank fees are reduced. That's really good. We are further coming to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the National Bank Act. The first question to which, with the best of will, I do not see a clear answer in the explanation of the bill is - why is the Supervisory Authority abolished over the financial institutions of the National Bank of Serbia? In fact, just two months ago, let me see, on March 22nd 2018, the Serbian Parliament elected as director of the National Bank of Serbia's Financial Supervisory Authority, Mr. Zeljko Jovic, who has been in the National Bank since 2012, in order to, behold, now under the new law, we have been shutting down the sector. Now the question is, why is a man chosen and given to be here for a little over two months? He now performs the duty of Vice Governor, and yet, I have found something there that, say, the Supervisory Authority has a director who can't be of the order of the Vice Governor, but that's why the Vice Governor can be of the order of directors. Also, in Article 29, says – the NBS official is unable to hire or otherwise engage in work in a financial institution or another legal person with whom the NBS is overseeing or cooperating in the performance of its functions after the end of a six-month period. It is clear to me that for a year, the moratorium of employment is perfectly normal because in the NBS someone who works he really has great access to all possible very confidential and significant information and if he comes to work for one bank that man is dry gold and I am sorry and we have intervened amendmentally – why is this part reduced to half a year and why it is not left for a year, because yet a year when it goes by it is not enough, but it is still a period. Furthermore, when we look at Article 15, what does the Supervisory Authority do, or the Executive Board, on a proposal from the Supervisory Authority. This is how the Executive Board, on a proposal from the Supervisory Board, decides to grant and confiscate bank permits for work, to grant and withdraw insurance companies, to authorise insurance operations, to grant and withdraw financial leases, to grant and confiscate companies for the management of voluntary pension funds, to work for the management of these funds, and to fulfil the conditions for the launch of bankruptcy proceedings, or to liquidate these financial institutions. We see here that this Supervisory Authority was very important and that it was actually giving and withdrawing work permits for various entities, and here I notice about this legal solution something similar to what we had, for example, in education laws, that it was centralization, that certain functions that had certain sectors were taking over, and that it was centralized. Now, my second question is to change the provisions of Article 26. In fact, Article 26 says to the governor, vice governors, and members of the council, in the following text – the NBS official ceases to function during the term of office, and before the term of office expires to resign in writing as in the case of a discharge from office. The new NBS official shall be elected no later than the end of the term of office of officials, which shall expire at the earliest 120 days, this is now a newspaper, before the term of office expires. The mandate of the new official starts to run the next day from the day of the end of the function of the previous functioner. This would have gone completely past me if it weren't for the situation now in society and the state, and somehow I think maybe you, Mrs. Tabakovic, as the current governor, and I believe that you will also be a candidate for the new governor of the NBS, want to in some way to make sure that you take up your post because perhaps some parliamentary elections will be held in the autumn, and perhaps some referendum, and then in that way... It's just some of my political thoughts, you'll let me have a right to them, so we'd like to hear from you what you think about that topic. You can say – well, I am not a political person here, but it seems to me that there have been a lot of political things in your testimony, first of all, that was one very big commendation of President Alexander Vukic, of whom you certainly expect support for your nomination, or choice for this governorial post. It's all legitimate and normal, but I'm just saying that by law, the governor shouldn't go into politics, and I'm asking you this because of your discussions, do you know something that I don't know? Otherwise, as far as these laws are good and the truth came a little late, my colleagues noticed, and you too, Madam Governor, you yourself said, somehow I can't help but get the impression, which is that these laws are also part of yours somewhere, and I like to make fun of them, girls. Just as Sinisha Mali, as finance minister, got the girls' prep to increase pensions, so you get the girls' training of these really good laws that will qualify you for a new candidacy. Next, we have a bill on financial security. I expected here to see the finance minister I believe discusses better here, because this is about the capital market that is really in Serbia, I cannot say dead, but which is not at that level as in EU countries or at that level as in candidate countries, i.e. they want to enter the EU. First of all, I would say something about the very stock market that is in Serbia on the air and that in countries that really want to have one real capital market, because the stock market is much more active than it is in our country. Here we come up to two questions, which is the question of EPS action and Telekom action. I'll talk about Telekom's actions. Right now, to make things clear, personally like my party, the People's Party is pushing for neither Telekom nor EPS as national resources to be sold. We support that these large national systems are not sold which really represent the right national treasure and national resources. However, 4,800,000 people received shares of Telekom that could not be sold on the stock market. It wouldn't damage Telekom in any way, nor would it sell it because those actions are only one small part, it seems to me to be 15% of its total value, and how to see how much that Telecom or EPS or some other significant firm is worth, if it can't get out on the market with those stocks. What I would also like to say is that Belgrade is interested in firms engaged in intermediation in the international financial market. Young people who know English, who are well educated, who are not well paid, work in these companies. They are all so educated in fact employed to spin clients' phones around the world with the aim of animate them to invest, but they do not animate investments in Serbia, but rather animate investments in other locations where the capital market is slightly better. Investors come when you have a good investment environment, legal, but also when you have a good capital market, and that capital market isn't in our best order. It's pretty messy and pretty weak. Furthermore, here I have found that this law recognises the development of trade in financial derivatives, so-called financial derivatives. Fuchers and options. I was a little interested, and then I saw that the state of Israel, the Israeli Parliament, had abolished this kind of trade with futures and options, because it was seen that as much as it reduces the risk to the state, it so increased the risk to private persons, for people who could be at great loss. So I would say that this is, in my opinion, a clean surplus and that this should be considered, because Serbia has already become a colony in some way, and it doesn't need one more point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37712	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37713	First of all, you were talking not about a law that protects users of services, i.e. a distance contract, but you were talking about the Consumer Protection Act by mentioning your personal problem with some phone provider. I believe you only used it as an analogy that what happens in practice is different from theory. Those laws that the NBS makes really have no intention of leaving a dead letter on paper and never being a dead letter on paper. We may be thinking a little longer as we make solutions, but the moment we come up with some solutions, we also have effective instruments to enforce these laws, and never on our burden could such a shadow fall that we pass laws that are inconclusive. There are problems, but we're overcoming them by improving internal procedures, so believe me, we've foreseen everything in this law that can't happen to the case you're talking about. He's not here, Mr. Stevanović. I stayed in charge of those 3,000 dinars, who are responding, whether the card user who loses both the PIN and the card or the bank's answer. For extreme disregard, we're explicit, it must be the citizen who didn't save either the card or the PIN, but we want to increase the bank's responsibility to work on the security features of all the details on the card, but also on the user's education where it has to go from that, the cameras on the ATMs, make sure that someone doesn't steal your PIN. So neither are we favored by users of services excessively, not wanting to humiliate people by taking away their responsibility to take care of their card and PIN. It is known explicitly, 3,000 is the cost borne by the citizen, but we say that the price of circumstances and the extreme disregard for spending is above 3,000 to 15,000, which we are talking about. So precise and clear and we don't hide anything in any of these legal solutions, so let me start by myself. The new law provides for the possibility, this law amends and complements, foresees the possibility of selecting the official of the vice governor when we adopt this law, will not be the director of the administration, I will explain what it was and why it is no longer there, can be chosen at the earliest 120 days before the end of the term, at the latest at the end of the term. That's an exact answer. I do not want to personally ensure myself in any way because my way of leading the NBS and the necessary coordination with the government of the RS implies, do not mind, but in that hypothetical variant, as you say that sometimes a referendum or change of government happens, no one would have to remind me to resign to that place if the people with whom I am now working on Serbia's stability, I am in financial, and those in a much wider range of stability, to stay and to work alone or what it's called, to co-habit with someone. I'm not that kind of man. Be assured, in this theoretically speaking, I do not trust any near-scheduled opportunity, but if it happens, here I am making a public promise – Jorgenka Tabakovic will not be in the seat of the governor and if she is elected to a second term if that political option, those political ideas and those values that have proved to be correct, desirable and supported by the citizens of Serbia lose support. Do I make myself clear? Is there anything more explicit to say or should I make a statement here? Second, the girl's cooking, and who's writing me these laws? From August 2012 at the National Bank from morning till evening, every paper I turn, check, every instruction lady, everyone in the National Bank knows that. Well, who wrote this to me, some consultants? This is the property of people at the National Bank of Serbia and the moment we're doing this. You think we've been waiting for a moment to make a choice? It's just a matter of work. It has nothing to do with that. It's just, for some things, they have to mature the circumstances, respecting your priorities, everything that's been going on as elections, we've now come to the turn. When it comes to the Director of the Administration, the reason why we give this option of choosing 120 days at the earliest or the end of the term of office is precisely the case we had with the Director of Administration. The previous director of the administration expired in November. An interview was conducted, all completed and we received the director of the administration recently, two months ago, due to the general circumstances of the officially elected director. We haven't thought about anything and thought about it, it's just technically necessary for the choice of officials to be done that way because of continuity. Do you believe that since 2000, when my associate Devic told me that no such stable time and need for the governor to be elected in the course of his regular term, we didn't have that solution planned. No procedures here, no internal procedures, no higher acts in force in this country. So, another thanks to the stability that we all live together is the need to make the choice of functioners so as to enable the continuity of the work of the institution. That's the only reason, there's no secret, he's explicit, exposed, shown and explained. Because the director of the board can get power from the governor. And, I'm sorry, when the governor doesn't get elected in time? Who's going to give the governor, he doesn't have a VD status, no one can temporarily perform his function, and that's precisely legally done in another constitution defined by the highest authority categories. It's just, there's no need to ask for anything secret when we say it all out loud. That is the reason, that is the basis on which trust was built with Serbia, from political relations, through the IMF, to the relationship I want to build with you, giving you a clear understanding of why we are doing it. Management as a management, it's one experiment we tried to introduce in 2012 where the administration is a man with two people, and everything else is sectors that do their job. After all these years, we realized that by taking on new responsibilities, especially the foreign exchange inspectorate, what we do with payment institutions, what we need to do with payment systems, exchangers, it's simply not the responsibility that only one man can do as director of the administration, who is otherwise not someone who decides for himself, but a member of the executive board, the collective body decides on everything that you have decidently listed that, subtracts, proposes to withdraw licenses and everything else. Essentially, the executive board with the vice governors and the governor will continue to decide everything you've counted. But we're losing that one link that slowed us down, and now it's necessary to bridge because there's too much jurisdiction for a man, or a vice governor. And there's nothing behind, nothing secret, no hidden agendas and intentions. Our goal is to be as effective as possible and to carry out all our responsibilities as soon as possible and in the most qualitative way possible. Why is that deadline cut? The competition ban clause, if I recall correctly, 161 members of the law that regulated work, working relations, said you couldn't hire six months, because you carry contacts, information, etc., but you have what's called a "golden parachute" in the Western world. This gold parachute is not gold in our possession, but the state of Serbia doesn't have enough money to pay for too much sitting, and on the other hand, we really count on the quality of people who work at the National Bank, because we don't have negative experiences, that they will have their own information to sell. On what do we base this belief? To save money, not to pay them too long and to believe their loyalty to the NBS. Did anything ever happen at the National Bank, withdrawing licenses, joining banks, any procedure, run in the media? Has the NBS ever stepped out with one unsettled, unsettled information past market participants who, when they make the transaction, then announce what it is, with the support of the National Bank of Serbia? We have had a variety of negative experiences, when people are playing with untapped statements, playing with financial stability, so they say -- the National Bank asked for this, the National Bank says, until a recent case that, I share with you, where the obligation of the state of Serbia, which every other state in the EU, because of the Law on Money Laundering, follows the party, in the sense that you are a political official? Yes, and I'm an officer and you're Mrs. Sanda. When one of your guys goes to the bank, they need to ask him if he has a relationship with you, because you can get donations, help and through some cousin, a friend. It is an EU standard that requires recognition of the party. You know what two banks did wanting to mock their own state in implementing something that's good practice, because we're all fighting corruption? Citizens all right, who are waiting for anything, shared a questionnaire – whether you are a functioner, whether you are an associate of a functioner, whether you are a politician or not, I don't know what. It's a practice, here, maybe this openness of mine is necessary at this point, which I don't normally do, but those two banks have already received warnings, because they prescribe patterns, they are obliged to provide mechanisms to which the party will monitor and prevent money laundering from stopping, providing security and preventing, and they say nicely – that's what the National Bank is asking us to do. The law passed by colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, thank them, it's a joint job, each of us has brought in missing sublaws. We, for example, about the licensing of all financial institutions even more precisely, although we have done it in practice, but now we have on paper that someone has to be reputable, as they say – "fit and proper", that there is no butter on the head, and they want to walk in the sun, as the Israelis would say, who haven't abolished what you're talking about, financial security and derivatives, that's the information you've announced, I don't have, sorry for the digression for their insight, but everyone has to be sufficiently respectable, qualified and competent and the National Bank appreciates it. Does someone now, when they apply for a member of the Management Supervisory Board of the Insurance Bank, say – that evil National Bank does not. No, those are the rules. In order to be a society, we all have to respect them, and therefore there is no fear that we have shortened the time limit for paying that period from six months until they start a working relationship with another company, that they will sell our information, because people in the National Bank are not special, they are all citizens of Serbia, but they have one special relationship because they know the importance of the work they do and know the quality of the information they have and how they can damage someone's information that they don't give up. The man who's been working on filming our sessions, he's been here a long time, he's retired, every session and every conversation in the National Bank is recorded, and that's good practice. I'm happy it's like that. This gentleman, who is retired, Nikola, whenever new translators and associates come, he gathers them together and says – what you hear here remains in the hall room or hall 107 where the meeting is held. It's not for the family either, it's not for the closest of friends. This institution over 130 years old must maintain its reputation and believe that we all work in the best possible way. I'm sorry for the long answer, but I've respected you, and I wanted to tell you all this in person.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37714	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 20 minutes. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We continue to work, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37716	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Governor, the representatives of the Ministry, here we are today discussing 11 points that are on the agenda, according to old and good custom in the united procedure, by emergency procedure again. Put your hands on your heart, when we talk about a united procedure, it's been a lot worse at the previous sessions, and today we can find some connection between most of the laws that are on the agenda today. However, this practice of adopting the laws of urgency which are very important, one of them is also the Law on Economic Society, which has 161 members, we received on Wednesday session meetings, he entered the Assembly on Monday, therefore, absolutely not enough time for serious preparation, not to speak for a serious debate in parliament. But that is the way Serbia has led in the last six years, which the current regime has run. So, if we are also talking about these urgent procedures and the drive to actually become a European society, reading only one sentence from the European report and it says – it is necessary to reduce the use of emergency procedures, measures that limit the possibility of the National Assembly to effectively consider legislation must be avoided. So, everyone warns, but of course, the practice of old work continues to talk about a large number of laws, that the more non-transparent laws are passed, although from any law, citizens of the Republic of Serbia can feel either mistakes or what it can bring good. When we talk today about a set of these laws proposed by the National Bank, we can say that actually monetary policy and economic policy of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have one and the same goal, which is that the burden of complete reforms that we have been hearing about over the back of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the economy and domestic entrepreneurs actually have a subordinate relationship with foreign entrepreneurs, foreign businesses and foreign businesses. This policy of creating a business environment for the development of entrepreneurship, for the growth of the economy in Serbia for the longer term is impossible, because the government of Serbia with its economic policy and the National Bank with its monetary policy only wants to make it possible for the short term, for some propaganda goals, for the creation of the prospect of better living in Serbia, that everything is great and wonderful in Serbia, that everything is excellent, neglecting what will, in the longer term and longer term, feel Serbia's economy, and immediately thereafter, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in this country. In 2016, you announced that you would change more than 40 laws regarding entrepreneurship in Serbia, that it would be a year of entrepreneurship, today we are in 2018, we got here two days ago in the assembly procedure law with 161 members, the Business Society Act, and now we need to solve the business environment in the Republic of Serbia. What is the country's relationship and monetary policy towards businesses is best told about the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the creation of GDP in Serbia. I hope the governor knows very well that it's about 30 percent, actually, according to the latest official data with 32% of private entrepreneurs participating in the creation of GDP. The average in Europe is 60%. One Bulgaria has 60%, Croatia has 51%, in Serbia entrepreneurs participate with only 30%. When we talk about it, it's no wonder, because you don't focus your attention on small and medium-sized enterprises, you focus primarily on some foreign investors who make from Serbia and Serbia's citizens cheap labour and a real slave company, where you bring various cable braiders and announce it as a golden investment age for Serbia, where Serbian citizens should be happy and satisfied if they get a job in the factory to knit cables, wear diapers and receive 200 euros for it. So on these grounds, no economy and economic growth can be built in one country. So on these and such grounds where you give 10,000 and more euros to a foreigner per employee, you cannot have a result in Serbia. If you have no result, then you resort to other measures to create a vision of some growth and economic development in the Republic of Serbia. But it's hard to do, too. In the last six years until 2017, Serbia was the last country in the region at the height of the GDP growth rate. The average rate for five years is 1.3 percentage points. The average in the Balkans is 2.3. So we're twice as small as all the other countries. We are behind Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia and Macedonia. That's true. So, I'm speaking officially statistical data. Furthermore, Serbia is among 40 countries with the lowest GDP growth. You're talking about some kind of economic tiger, some kind of prosperity, some kind of development, and I think it's getting worse and worse things are happening here in Serbia and it's just gonna happen. There's, uh, a respected governor, especially your share when we're talking, first of all, about your monetary policy, the situation where we have the lowest rate of economic growth on the one hand. I'm not talking about 2018, so please, when you answer me, don't talk about the rate in the first quarter of this year, because last year, in the first quarter, he was over 3.5%, so he went down to two. It's seen at the level of the year. So we have the lowest growth rate. We have a public debt that is 60% today of GDP or you are 24 billion and we have a dinar that's strengthened to the euro by 5%, which has been strengthened by the US dollar by 15 percentage points and the dinar is now the strongest currency in the world. Where's the logic? Something's wrong. If you have a strong currency of your own, I guess you also have an economy, an economic development, and we don't have a business development. We have constant and new responsibilities and we have a strong currency. The answer is that the dinar is overestimated artificially. There's no dilemma. That's quite clear. Now that you have proposed these laws, above all the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, can be sublimed in one single sentence, which is to abolish the supervisory board. So it contains no fundamental changes in the work of the NBS or any of the things that are related to the conduct of monetary policy in Serbia, which should. I'll tell you how you influence the state of the economy in Serbia. First, the National Bank, as an institution, which exists with one single task among other things, is to provide a sufficient amount of money in transport and you know very well that Serbia today has three times less money in transport than it needs. As a result, it is an absolutely frightening indifference of the economy and of the citizens of Serbia and long payment deadlines. When we talk about liquidity, Madam Governor, today in Serbia there are 36,000 blocked companies, you have the amount of the 2.5 billion-euro blockade. In addition to you and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the VAT return they have the right to and have achieved has been delayed by businessmen. It's always about 30 billion dollars in debt to recover VAT. In this, such a situation, normally we cannot talk about economic growth and economic development. Money mass is slightly larger than it was in 2012. It's true, you've increased in one amount, but not enough. Still not enough as it needs to be, practically so that it can work for the economy and the citizens. What has increased, has been increased, above all, as a result of the Serbian population's misery, because this misery has conditioned the growth of the credit activity of these citizens. When we talk about a strong dinar. That really looks good. You know, when citizens look, they don't have to chase down some exchange offices now, dealers on the streets to change their foreign exchanges, to chase whether it's more or less today, but is it the real state of Serbia and the state of economics in Serbia? It's not. First of all, as far as this current course of dinars is concerned, first of all, with the interests of foreigners, as you know, who lend money to the state. And here we'll talk about it now. They borrow state money and make high yields, high profits. So they're bringing in foreign exchanges. The ratio of supply and demand defines a course, if I'm not mistaken. This course corresponds to the importers. Madam Governor and all that, but he's very depressed for all those companies that are exporting to the Republic of Serbia, and I guess our attention should be focused on them, to produce and export, but this course is depressing for all export-related companies. Furthermore, if we are talking about monetary policy, I am absolutely in the position and we believe, as a People's Party, that the reference rate should be further shot down with the goal of making it 2%. First of all, because of the cost of the loan, which would actually lead to an increase in economic activity unlike what I've been saying so far, which is the depletion of economic activity, because 30% of all entrepreneurs are involved in creating GDP. Making a proper monetary policy is a prerequisite for any economic progress, and I believe that we all agree on that, but there is no happiness in the economy of this country where interest rates with credit costs are higher than profits. So when you come to such a stage, you can't talk about any economic growth and the development of a country. Of course, as a result of all this, we also have laws, or agreements on new loans and new duties, at the session today on the agenda. The Republic of Serbia, or its citizens today owe 24 billion euros, is 60% of GDP. In 2012, before you came to power, that debt was 15 billion. So it was almost ten, to be exact nine billion was smaller than it is today. Now that you're talking about all your successes in these six years, you can't say that's not true. Ten billion euros in debt to the Republic of Serbia for six years in your term. Now, as your greatest success, you're saying that in the last two years it hasn't continued to grow public debt compared to 2015 when you peaked, when the public debt was 25.3 billion and 76% of GDP, respectively. So that's a fact. When you talk about GDP growth in the first quarter, you should also say that in this year you have already tasked the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with a new 504 million in the first quarter by broadcasting paper of value. Now, today at this session, you are borrowing citizens of the Republic of Serbia for a new 225m euros. So, there continues to be a devastating policy of further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, and you are constantly serving economic categories of surpluses and deficits that absolutely do not depend on the lives of citizens, that is, but when you do not have a surplus to boast of, instead of having a surplus, you pay off your liabilities to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are entrepreneurs, whether they are farmers, but you are not serving your obligations, liquids and achievements, and you say, we have a deficit, a surplus of money in the budget. It's no ability at all, but you, because of the propaganda and the lies you've been ruling for six years, want to present to the citizens such a devastating economic policy. When you talk about the fall, and you said a little bit, I listened to you carefully, the ratio of GDP, or the decline of GDP, that is, you said that it was 60% today, it was 76% in 2015, the result of this decline is not an increase in economic activity but an artificially raised dinar, i.e. a maintained dinar and exchange rate differences and the ratio of the euro and the dollar ratio. So if you had real growth it would have proved, not to talk about 1.3 growth but to talk about 4 or 5% growth, we would have talked about investment, not to be at the beginning of our growth being far smaller than all the countries in the environment. So, Serbia is behind Montenegro, behind Bosnia, behind Croatia, not to talk about Romania, Bulgaria and other countries. We can only compare with Macedonia, but as things flow, the Macedonians will be above us. The result is the average salary, ma'am. Average salaries in Serbia remain far from what our neighbours from other neighbouring countries have. Only we and the Macedonians are there for 400 and some euros, everyone else has more, both Montenegro and Croatia and Bosnia, and not to mention the same. About minimum wages not to talk, because we're the last, we're the last. We can't even compare to African countries. Now you're saying it's some big success that we've reached our salary of 400, two, three euros. If the dinar course today were to paint the situation in the economy, we wouldn't have 400 euros, but would be below 400 euros. So, everything is a farce and all is a play for the citizens of Serbia, who should believe that in fact it is much better for them than you say and what they feel – that honey and milk flow here, that a dinar is the most stable currency, that they have the highest wages in the region, that in Serbia it is a pleasure to live, that businessmen work well, make huge profits. But it might be on your TV. Maybe that's what you'd want it to be like. But you don't know how to do that. You've been ruling for six years, and after six years, you're still talking about how someone else is responsible for this situation in Serbia. There's an even bigger paradox of why you're taking these loans. You are taking for public enterprises – for "Srbigas", for EPS, for railways. You will owe Serbia 160m euros for public enterprises, which are at the cancer of the Serbian economy and which you do not reform, you know why? Because they serve various corrupt mechanisms, campaigns and what I know about you, but that's why reforms go on the back of citizens, whether they're pensioners, whether they're employees, whether they're farmers, whether they're small and medium-sized enterprises, and they're protected as white bears. That's what the fiscal council and the IMF and everyone else warns you about, but it just keeps going like that. For six years, these same public enterprises have continued to be financed from the budget. The money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is boasted by their bosses. Also, the Post Office, with 40m euros, for which you take the loan and for the health system 25m. And it's all going through this kind of debate with laws, where we can't commit ourselves, or that citizens know what's behind some law in a non-transparent debate, so I'm going to look back on just one member of this kind of company law, which has 161 members. Therefore, Article 259 of this Act provides that the market value of public shareholders’ shares is to be determined as a weighted average price achieved on a regulated market or a multilateral trading platform. Furthermore, the amendment of Article 475 of this Act lays down provisions laying down the procedure for the acquisition of shares of incompatible shareholders, so as to provide that a public shareholder meeting the liquidity criteria defined in Article 259, has an obligation to purchase from a disproportionate shareholder the action required by a value equal to the market value. So, simply put, to make it clear to the citizens, you are changing the law and, instead of, as it has been so far, offer the value of the action by three aspects – market price, book value or estimated value of actions, delete it now in law and leave it to not be paid to shareholders the maximum amount of these three offered, market, accounting and estimated, but only market price. Why? Because you're going to pay, and when I talk about shareholders, I'm talking about ordinary shareholders, two million people have the right to free action, say, the airport, the next day Telecom, maybe even Commercial Banks, they won't be able to get, to choose the highest value when an estimate of the value of the action is made, but the state will once again put their hand in their pocket and take some of the funds, because it will pay them by special estimates the market value of the action. And that's probably, and I want you to answer me, maybe one reason for this and the current state of Belgrade Airport, and the next day other social systems that will be privatised, and what will the small shareholders, or citizens of Serbia who have signed up for action, be entitled to? This law certainly reduces the value of the action that citizens would be entitled to. You put your hand back in their pocket again, and the public enterprises continue to boast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37717	Thank you. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37718	I would only ask a young colleague what is defined when he says that the dinar is artificially strong, at one point, and then he says - I know that the reflection of the offer and demand is the value of the dinar. Well, is it artificial or is it a relationship of supply and demand? What's my biggest problem? I'm really taking everything you say seriously. But when you announce that there is not enough money in circulation, and the National Bank of Serbia withdraws any additional liquidity on repo auctions every Wednesday, and this is really happening and we have the cost of maintaining monetary policy in the sense that this surplus liquidity is not being poured into inflation that would be a tax for all citizens of Serbia, and you are talking about a lack of liquidity, i.e. the absence of sufficient amounts of money in circulation. How can I understand? Either it's not your profession, or someone's cheating on you, or you're not using the right data. But now the question is – do you use them on purpose as incorrect and obsolete, such as this about the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the creation of GDP. It would be your turn to say what year that data is from. (Miroslav Aleksic: From this one. That's not true. The latest data available by the relevant institutions of the World Bank, the IBRD and our Statistics Office are for 2014. So, I'm talking in the microphone and protecting the reputation of the function I'm doing here in your full term. This data is from 2014. I don't dispute political skill if it has or tries to display data selectively to make it work, I don't know, we created some mirage, you don't live in it, and it's not a reality, it's a delusion. It's not like us to be serious people. So when you talk about the categories you underestimate, the deficit and the surplus and the public debt, the external debt, the way it's financed, there's one elemental thing that each of us knows. When you're in private debt, does it matter if you're in charge of flying or because you bought some mini oven you're going to do some manufacturing? Is it the project loan, the investment loan or the spending? This is what distinguishes the way this government works, the way we conduct monetary policy and what we find. So, the current deficit has to be financed by something. Do you have a minus on the current account? You have to renew the loan or sell something and return it. So, the debt for the deficit created in 2008 by a political agreement, and without a source of funding for increased public expenditures, those pensions, is something that can be translated in private life like this. You give a child an increased allowance, pretty big, but you don't have a salary to cover it. You have no income, but you're giving it to the debt you're forming in 2008 over 100 million was then that hole that's constantly increasing by interest, and that's one part of this debt, and you're only pointing out it. You're talking about that 500 million new borrowings, and you're not saying that in December of last year, the state of Serbia paid $750m in debt without new borrowing, using the purchase via its NBS agent at the time the dollar was the most favourable. That's what citizens need to know. Today for a $1 billion maturity in November, the state has already bought $570m at the time when the dollar value was most favourable to pay off the debt. What does a responsible state and monetary policy do in coordination with it? The interest on these securities is the value that is necessary for borrowing the state to cover the deficit of that imbalance between the incomes we make and the expenditure we have, and we found them, legally defined. He's got to finance something. Portfolio investments are called securities of value, but sometimes interest on that type of loan was by ten percentage points more than today. As a result of these reduced interest rates and the reduced cost of the state to cover the deficit, consumption is the result of less risk premiums, the stability this country has, the investment interest, for investment. Why don't you just shut up about the fact that you're saying portfolio investments and not saying that foreign direct investments are net 2.6 billion for Serbia and bigger than in any country in the environment? I won't say honey and milk flow, but it's much better and it's better on long-term grounds. You're telling me the course is temporary, inflation low. For inflation three years low and stable inflation down from 12.9 to 2.2, is that a short deadline for inflation? Inflation expectations anchored, which is now the level of trust in one country, in its monetary policy, and are anchored to an inflation that has been reduced from 4 ± 1.5 to 3 ± 1.5. It should be your pride, it doesn't matter who made it happen. I don't mind when someone achieves success. I don't mind quoting someone else. I admire everyone's success. I like to remember sometimes when Milan Markovic here defended the Inspection Act. It was really a good law and there were a lot of such cases, but I'm happy to remember that because the atmosphere was – we're doing something for the state, but now I don't understand that everything that's been done and what's obvious to you is illusory, artificial, one way or the other. What does the data say? You say, the economy doesn't work at all, reducing the cost and interest of negative exchange rates precisely because of this and this relatively stable dinar and reduced interest, says that the economy paid the creditors 54 billion dinars less in 2007 compared to 2014. Thanks to dinar stability, resulting from the successful implementation of macroeconomic policy, negative exchange rates decreased 246 billion dinars in 2014 to 97 billion dinars in 2017. Is 148 billion dinars for underestimation? So much money left in the investment business. Do you know that banks today have one part of the problem that businesses have their own sources of funding, although the availability of funding for all categories and SMEs and micro-exclusive and access to these companies over which they shed their tears is the following. The growth of newly approved loans in micro-enterprises is 14.2%, for a small 25.9%, for an average of 21.4% and 38.5% to a large one. Well, they're not in charge of paying their debts, they're in charge of investing. Another piece of information I want to share with you, which is extremely important, is the following. I think you're aware of that, but I have an obligation to do it again. The period from 6 August 2012 – May 2018 – the euro money remained almost unchanged. It's down to 0.3%. NBS intervention-based foreign exchange reserves increased 400m euros for the period from 2012 to 2018. Not spent on maintaining stability, but created buffer for that time. Now let's compare it. Let me just add that the money from 2008 to 2012, in four years it's lost 33.2% of its value. That's a third. Expended foreign reserves 5.7 billion for those four years. 5.7 billion euros were spent, and the dinar weakened 33.2%? I can say this, but it would be my turn not to mention this, because it doesn't go to the benefit and honor of those who did this and it's done in the time of the borgsite, the Greek crisis, significant geopolitical tensions and not to mention all the circumstances we've been going through for the period I'm talking about. What has contributed to this relative stability of the course for the economic environment to be predicted and so in the figures we express it precisely in this area that you are interested in, external trade activities? Since 2016 we place more than half of our production on the markets. The share of exports of goods and services to GDP reached 52.5% in 2017 and 54.4% in the first quarter of this year. You've banned me from mentioning that in the first trimester, there's 4.6% GDP growth, and here I won't. In 2012 comparisons, exports of goods and services accounted for 36.2% of GDP, which means that in 2017 this participation was higher by 16.3 percentage points. Is that an illusion? Is that a hoax? Is that marketing? These are the data I can add to you, I'm afraid I'm going to piss you off, the net foreign exchange reserves, and besides this stable dinar, it's never bigger. Gross amounts to over 10 billion and net foreign exchange reserves have increased by three billion and 258m euros and amounts to 8.792m euros. So, the net foreign reserve, not the mandatory reserve at the NBS, the state of Serbia foreign reserve, which owns the property and the NBS. Double the amount that is intended for all benchmarks as sufficient and sustainable to cover exports by all criteria of international financial institutions. The reference interest rate is down from 11.75 to 3 and you want to be 2. Excuse me, and what's the projection department going to do at the Directorate of Economic Research and Statistics rather than measure the impact of oil price growth, their models, the risks that come in and out of the way, to be careless, to raise and lower interest? We don't look up to anyone. When we're sure to lower the reference, we lower it, but the executive, that price of money, is effective, we cut it down by our own way of making the auctions. Since you claim to know this matter, let me tell you that sometimes monetary policy is driven so that all surplus liquidity is withdrawn, all as many as there are, all that banks offer, it belongs to the NBS at the most expensive price, at the reference price. Now the model is auctions per variable interest and we're withdrawing the liquidity that we estimate. Do you know what the price is? About 2,4, although it's reference 3. Not to burden others with further details, but it's a true story of exports, of stable and sustainable growth, not of illusion, as you wanted to present it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37719	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37720	Thank you. Mr. Alexic, I listened carefully to what you had in mind for comments to tell us about the bill that we presented today. I think there was one simple desire to show something that's worse and it's bad, and without any arguments and looking literally anywhere for a foothold in something that maybe some wider auditorium won't understand. When it comes to citizens of Serbia, they know best how they live and, unlike when you were in power, today the citizens of Serbia see that from day to day is better, maybe a little, but it is better from day to day, unlike some past names when they were in complete uncertainty what they expect, what inflation, what our governor said, how the course was going to end, how much money, or the exchange, will be able to buy from her salary, and also about the deficit that was unpredictable. You're talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. You know how, we inherited the economy from you, which was based on how small and medium-sized enterprises deal with services. We threatened to become a country that we would only provide services to each other, not to produce anything. In order to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, you have to give them a job, you have to give them something to produce, that they have some new product that will throw out some new value. This new value is based on when you have a country like we inherited in 2012, on what you have to bring investors to produce. Of course, we would all like to have investors of the "A" class coming to us, but in the country like Serbia in 2012, it was very difficult to bring these investors who are today and who were then coming and we see that by credit rating and our country's position on the "Ding Business List" we change that image of our country from day to day, that more and more high-quality investors come, and small and medium-sized enterprises, which have more and more, are not based on services only, but are based on supporting those people who produce something and that is the strength of a single economy, when you have a cluster of small and medium-sized enterprises that helps this large company, this big company that produces something, which gives some final product, which ultimately exports and once again brings some new profits. We inherited a bad education, we inherited a bad judiciary, that's all you can't change in one day. The consequence of all this is that we also have a lack of labour today, although it may seem to you when you say we have 12.7% unemployment, that we can use it, yes, but some earlier times have led to the fact that by not caring about who and how we educate, we have extra personnel. Of course, if we're not and we're not letting it be on its own right now to get rid of it, but the National Employment Service separates big money for retraining, retraining, so that our people and those who have a job today survive, adopt some new technologies, but these young people who are jobless and unable to find it, maybe their retraining may be competitors to get their job. We're also dealing with social entrepreneurship and we'll work on it. I can only tell you that the Ministry, whose head I am, has 12 laws in the first half of this year with which they will come before you here in the Assembly, and in the second half of 18. Some of them are also directly involved, and some are indirectly concerned with social entrepreneurship and we are very concerned about social entrepreneurship. When you're talking about loans, it's interesting, when you're giving us an interest in this borrowing, you've been taking loans and those loans were eight, nine, ten percent plus euribor. Our loans are euribor plus 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1%. What the governor said, we even had an obligation to pay back some expensive loans from that time. Your loans that were so expensive often went to service certain non-productive obligations were not invested in the infrastructure, in production, but were invested in pensions, in shortfall. We also managed to make a surplus, and that from giving the state, which falls from month to month when it comes to the subsidy we give to pensioners, that is, what the state gives them, and that is precisely why with optimism, what our President Aleksandar Vukic said, we can guarantee them that there will be a bigger pension, and not only greater, but greater than it was in 2014. That's what he showed in that table. That's what I see now that nobody's talking about. He doesn't even mention that he said that there would never be a higher salary and that this year there would be an increase in salary. You mean where did that come from? It's not from these duties, none of it went to pay. The last thing I want to say, and I want to bring it closer, when you say GDP, and we have slow growth. You say there was a 14 billion-euro debt in your time, and that was 70% of GDP. By simple mathematics, our GDP was 20 billion euros. Math is clear. Today our debt is 60% and is 24 billion, which means our GDP is 40 billion. I don't know, if there's no growth, how did GDP grow from 20 to 40? That's what I'd like you to explain to me. If there's no growth, how is that possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37721	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37722	Thank you. I won't be able to explain to the Minister and Governor the tandem in two minutes, and deal with them on economic theories, fiscal theories, monetary. We can do that somewhere else. I'd really like all of this to be brought out by the citizens, like you said, on your skin. As the minister said - citizens feel better and progress every day. I really don't know, maybe I don't belong to that group, maybe there are some who feel. You probably, Mrs. Tabakovic, at the National Bank and how you feel better because you're getting a salary of 530,000. Your associates receive 400 and some thousands of dinars. The average salary in Serbia, which you say is the largest than ever, is 410, 415, 420 euros and you boast. So 25% of Serbian citizens are on the verge of absolute poverty. Those are the results. And thank you, Your Honor, for confirming that the public debt has been increased by 10 billion. Of course, you've made your arguments and replaced the thesis of what it's like for this or for that. Also, you can't deny the fact that we have the lowest economic growth in the region. And now that you want me to replace the thesis saying that the situation in Serbia is great, you're not going to make it. In fact, you can deceive citizens for a while and tell them all the fairy tales they listen to, but there will come a moment when they will drag their hand into their pocket and understand how they live in Serbia, and businessmen, and doctors, and farmers, and entrepreneurs. I call on you once again, Mr. Djordjevic, as you wish to answer your question, you have not answered me on a concrete question regarding the Law on Economic Society, related to the airport and the future way of calculating actions that are entitled by small, or ordinary shareholders of the Republic of Serbia, which has over two million in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37723	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37724	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listen to this, say this, be with a fat cheek, and listen to this, you should have a strong stomach. So, at the end of 2012, when the line was drawn, it was over 17 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37725	Just name a member, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37726	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37727	Article 107? It's a violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37728	It's a violation of dignity. That debt was not included in the donor support four points something billion. Five billion almost forgiveness of the debt, sold to the economy, 6.7 billion. In all, 32 billion, as our people say, have squandered, and have not created a source of debt recovery. The currency's gone 50%. But they were fine. They were fine. Wolf descendant, Vuk Jeremic, transactions, during 2013, 2014 and 2016, like this, 60 thousand euros, 30 thousand euros, 30 thousand euros, 30 thousand euros in 2014, 2015 million $494 thousand, here all here, million 469 000 in 2017, $200,000 in 2014, again $200,000 in 2016, in 2015, $25,000, that was some kind of poverty, 199.000 2016, and again 199.000. Here, cameras can pick up. So, a total wolf descendant, the progeny chief, five million 733 thousand dollars and 180,000 euros. So, they were certainly better off, 400,000 people lost their jobs. And, as I said, you should have a good stomach to listen to these facts of Vuk Jeremic's descendent and his movement of thieves, freemen and frauds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37729	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, Mr. Chairman, you have had to act in accordance with article 86 of the 1, 2 and 3 which says - the meeting call for the National Assembly contains the day, the hour and place of the session and the draft agenda. Otherwise, my colleague Alexic would know that now is not 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, but on June 1, 2018. If he had known that, he wouldn't have told us what he was saying, because in the period from 2008 to 2012, we sold nearly five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, so we kept the stability of the dinar, which, I must admit, the governor was kind to him because he said a course that was 31 December 2008 with a course that was in 2012. To go back to the times when you took over, it was 76 dinars, and when you lost power, it was 119,80. We were talking about some inflation. She was never smaller, and he talked again about the period from 2008 to 2012. We talked about the bad rights of workers. The biggest and worst right of workers is when he loses his job, but not only when he loses his job, but loses hope that he can get it, find it, get a job, take care of his family. I have to admit, in just one part of his colleague was right. It's worse for him than it was in 2011 and 2012, because there's no more where to get it, no more where to steal it, and now it's responsible. Next time remind a colleague in accordance with Article 86(3) that today is 2018 and do not tell us about the results of their authority and their results to attribute to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37731	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I believe that fellow Alexic had every right to his position, so whether he's real or not, now you're talking about it right now. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37732	On the basis of Article 32. Mr Marinkovic, in the course of last session, I had a more serious discussion with you because in a very special way, you referred to the motionary at the time and you are on your way to doing so now. I'm warning you in time. So, Jorgenka Tabakovic has no advantage here. She has come to present some draft laws, and if the MP is to report to the Rules of Procedure, then he must have the advantage. Whatever she turns around and says, "Give it to me, let me not forget, let her not go, let her write it down, lest she forget." So, you have to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and you can't give anyone a head start based on whether you like someone more and less. I don't know why you didn't give Marianne your word before she did. So, please, so that we do not continue to have this kind of problem in the course of the debate, that the thing with Zorana Mihajlovic is not repeated. Please take care of yourself. It is the MPs here who have every kind of advantage or at least complete equality when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure and take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37733	Thank you, colleague Radeta, for your suggestion. Ambassador Risticevic did report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but he withdrew before Governor Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic answered the word, so I believe I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? There will be an opportunity. ) Thank you so much for understanding. The word is made by MP Miroslav Aleksic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37734	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 109. The Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that from session to session continue the brutal insult and abuse of the Rules of Procedure by Ristic, and now Arsic, whom you did not give notice to what Mr Jeremic called a descendant, personally called me here a descendant, if I have heard correctly, Mr Arsic to steal, that I cannot steal, that we are thieves etc. So that's what the warning is about, Mr. Chairman, to such statements and what they're saying here in the microphone. You absolutely didn't respond, even though they talked about everything other than hurting the Rules of Procedure. If they're already talking about it, they're talking about who's a thief, who's stealing from the current and current government, let's not go back to 2008, so they can start with Vulin, via Sinisha Mali, through Ana Brnabic and all the others who sit here with your support, and how they have something to answer to the citizens of Serbia about their accounts, about their offshore companies, and about drugs in cars, and aunt's apartments, and not to pick up anything else. If you're already doing this, then start with you, and don't accuse the thieves of being the opposition today for six years. How can they steal? As for me, I am Mr. Arsic, unlike many, long before politics, I've done some work, I've done it today, and I don't care, I live even better today, than when I was in power, if you're already pulling your tongue. Don't insult the MPs here. Do not allow such statements and charges to pass without warning, and you punish opposition MPs on the other hand. Mr. Arsic punished me for saying that MPs read literary works. That was enough to get two notices and an exclusion, and for this thief, a descendant, steals, offspring and the rest, it doesn't matter, they can say whatever they want, insult us as anyone wills, and for that a reminder is not betrayed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37735	Thank you, colleague Alexic. You know I'm really trying to treat everyone the same way. I didn't recognize the speech of my colleague Risticevic to you and insult you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has the governor, Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37736	I know my business rights to volunteer and I can get a word in at any time. I know I don't have the advantage over the MPs who advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, I answered just to say that my intention had just been, I asked the chairman to give me a word to respond to the remarks made by the MP, so that I would not just hurt the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand, continue the debate in this direction in which it originated, but I did not say - I will forget, not to forget. I respect you and expect you to respect me. I respect your arguments, but don't add lies. I didn't say I didn't forget, because I have a great memory and I don't forget. The truth above all else, don't add.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37737	The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37738	You know how, when you compare that you live worse today than before, I'll tell you, I've read an interesting thing about an MP who used to be in a high position in the community and I wouldn't be surprised that he's talking about living much worse today. I know what he was doing back then, and I'm convinced that he lives worse today, and that he lives worse every day, because he spends everything he once obtained illegally and has. I've remained in charge of that law that you mentioned and it is, it's my fault. Article 259 is harmonised for reasons of compliance with international accounting standards. This Article provides for the determination of the market value of a company’s shares by the position of 1 this member of the company’s market value as the weighted average price achieved on the regulated capital market, i.e. a multilateral trading platform within the meaning of the law governing the capital market over a period of six months, preceding the date of decision making establishing the capital market and establishing the market value of the shares, provided that, during that period, the volume of the shares of that class in the capital market represented at least 0.5% of the total number of shares issued in that class and that, in the same period, a third of the commercial shares and the same tightening was traded. What is most important, why it is changing in 259 is that it further strengthens the importance of the liquidity criteria of actions and the same sharpness, which I think is plus, while also bringing the trading regime closer to actions according to the law governing the takeover of stock companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37739	Thank you. Miroslav Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37740	I thank the chairman. Thank you for your response, Mr. Minister, by not taking this first piece of evil for you, I assume you said about me that I was the president of the municipality, so now I'm spending some money I made earlier, but never mind, I won't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37741	I don't think it's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37742	In particular, this response to the actions you mentioned. You've called to international European standards, I'll read it to you. So – in accordance with the applicable international standards of financial reporting applied in EU Member States, an estimate of the value of actions i.e. The market value of quoted paper of value does not require any additional correction compared to the legal proposal we have so far had. In accordance with paragraph 77, the international standard of financial reporting, measurement and fair value, the quoted price on the active market provides the most reliable fair value proof is used without correction in measuring fair value whenever available. So, I specifically asked you -- why in this law are you now eliminating the possibility of establishing the maximum price of possible actions, but you're just offering them a market price? Because it concerns two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to free action and who will certainly get less when these public enterprises are privatised, whether it is Belgrade Airport, whether it is EPS, whether Telekom or someone else, they will de facto receive less money under such a bill than they would have obtained if they remained a member of the law unchanged 259. That's a specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37743	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37744	Comrade Alexich, here's another explanation. The amendment of this Article is that if there is a market value of shares, there is no reason at all for any correction or correction of that value. That's why you do it. I say it is done in accordance with international accounting standards and this law has been in the European Commission with this explanation and has returned as something that has been instructed to be done now and with this change. So when you have a market value, and you have, you own it, it's okay when you don't have it, so you need to see, to determine some value. Here when you have the market value you're trading on, you now want to introduce a new mechanism to say that we now estimate that it may be high or low, so we give ourselves the right to correct it in another direction. Why is it that if it's traded at some value, you're correcting it now? It's very simple and simple, that's why it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37745	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37746	Thank you. Indeed, as of this morning, we had a lot to hear, unfortunately a lot more things that had nothing to do with the laws, but given the fact that the governor asked us to deal with the facts this morning, to follow each other, I'd be happy to do so later, because I followed her and what she was saying, as well as all the MPs. As for the amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in short, almost all amendments have been amended, they have been tied up with the shutting down of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Authority as separate units within the NBS, which is good, because the governor was practically a state in the country and there were indeed some things that were not very defined. So, by amending and supplementing the law, the governor of the NBS is now scheduled to be responsible for what he has been responsible for so far and was the Director of the Supervisory Authority, if I understand correctly. And all the functions that the Administration has been doing continue to be restored only as a separate continent. Now, one of the things that we don't think is good, which can be the consequence of this law, these changes and the addition is that the Director of the Supervisory Authority will now be, as they say, more insecurely chosen given the fact that the assembly procedure will no longer go through, (Jorganka Tabakovic: As Vice Governor, it writes. He will? Yeah, okay. All right. If that's the case, then that's fine, considering the fact that it said in that attitude it wouldn't be elected again. I may not have seen it well, but I'll wait for the answer to see if he's still elected through the Assembly, so we'll discuss it further. As regards the Law on Interbank Refunds and the specific rules of business in payment transactions on the basis of payment cards, there was such an interesting thing for me, i.e. for us from the SRS, a special third member. He says in the first position – the interbank fee for the debit card transaction cannot be more than 0.2% of the value of the transaction. Then, the second position - interbank credit card fees cannot be more than 0.3% of the value of the transaction, and then, in Article nine, points 2 and 3. – payment transactions based on business cards, payment transactions based on payment cards issued by a tripartite payment card system, the provisions of this article shall not apply to those two things. So the question is simply asked, that is, if we understand correctly, that is to say, that is to say, the factual attitudes of 1st and 2nd are to be excluded and they cease to apply, i.e. The interbank fee for the debit transaction ceases to be limited to 0.2%, while the maximum barrier of 0.3% for credit cards is also eliminated. This tells us point 9 is actually excluded from point 1 and 2. Since business cards are opened on behalf of the legal person represented by a professional representative, it is likely that it will not fall into the trap, as is often noted, of fine letters. We hope it wasn't so regulated that it could be said it was a mistake. It is interesting that Article 6 has also defined the rules on the acceptance of all cards and item 3 is specified what the receiver is obliged to do in case he does not accept the payment cards of each card system, and in that case, he points out that information at the entrance to the sales facility and at the place of charge. Since the aim of this set of laws is to amend and supplement the law to facilitate distance operations, it would make sense to prescribe the obligation of those traders who, on their internet presentations, I mean websites, advertising and all others, have card systems shown, to update them for a card system whose cards are no longer received, so that they do not lead customers astray by circumstances due to new circumstances. You know that this was the best example and was often the case with the "daniers club boarding". We've just had one big affair here for showing false financial services, and many customers have only found out in the sales place that they can't do their service, from the gas station, the store, the market, whatever, but that they're not getting this card anymore. What's also quite interesting about this law, when it's done, is that there are defined violations of traders on the one hand and publishers and consignors on the other, with only fines defined. The fines shall be pronounced at the same time as the determination of irregularity and given together with a warrant to remove the irregularities mentioned. Other fines are also prescribed in case irregularities are not removed. However, it then practically opens up the possibility of the subject being in a continuous violation without questioning the license to participate in card traffic. For example, if the issuer constantly charges interbank fees contrary to Article 3(3) of this Act and records gains greater than penalties, he may continue to practice the same practice after multiple fines. I think that's clear. The penalty referred to in the article, if we take then 13, should be adapted to the proposal relating to Article 6. It's the only thing that's normal and logical. Highlighting non-acceptance of individual cards at other locations, except for physical ones. When we talk about the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in Remote Contracting, in our opinion, this law is incentivised in terms of facilitating business, and this is not controversial, as well as the pursuit of certain remote transactions, where the generation is widely used in terms of reducing the costs of the Contracting Parties. However, it also contains certain items that are not precisely defined and simply hide, can be like a trap, some certain dangers. I hope we can figure that out now. I'll explain what this is all about. One of these items is the authentication of the user itself, where paradoxically undefined authentication elements, but are listed as required two elements. Also, what is a major problem, in the opinion of someone who, among other things, deals with cyber security of the agency in which he works, is the lack of electronic signature conditions of up to 600,000 dinars. If the physical signature is required in the physical conclusion of the contract, it is necessary to request electronic signature in electronic business. The further explanation of the law states that there are practical problems when applying an electronic signature, which is a legitimate tendency to facilitate business, contract conclusion and so on, but the problem is not solved by setting up a vaguely defined criteria of user authentication, but rather by making a system-based solution, by making a register of a person who will have a purpose similar to the physical variant of the parent book born, for example, or by at least making an online register with an official state agency or institution, in which all persons who intend to carry out long-distance tasks would have tasks that would be performed in person, and then the data that have just been delivered would be used for authentication when closing the contract at a distance. That's how we create security. This one is the only one, according to us, here, to see if and how you may have regulated through that law, whether there will be any additional changes. Another thing that is true, I am not a lawyer, really I am not a lawyer, but as such, it simply falls into the eyes, is the fact that Article 2(4) of point 9), the second page, calls for EU laws, rather than the laws of the Republic of Serbia, so it says - EU rules are directly, without compliance with domestic regulations, declaring them in force. What happens in cases where the EU has defined and recognised legal and natural persons providing financial services without such legal persons being defined in our law at all? At the same time, they were factoring agencies, or agencies that bought out claims. I'm interested, as it isn't, or then it's not our regulations, or where our regulations are, is this just a bill, is this copied, transferred, I don't understand on what basis, I say, just by EU regulations? It's just amazing to me that we don't have in our legislation, that we've just gone abroad, or we haven't used it, or we're not through our simple regulatory, or parts of the law, there's no matching, or if we have to go through changes and additions, or whatever? So, it just says here that it's like that, maybe it's a technical mistake. I expect, I'm really interested, as it is possible to stand in an official act. When we talk further about this law, the fundamental problem of protecting users of financial services is not solved by this law. In fact, both foreign exchange and other risks, on which neither side can be affected only by the consumer, i.e. Only the user. This can produce a negative incentive in terms of gambling behaviour of service providers that are far better informed than consumers of whether interest rates will change or not, or whether they will come and to what extent exogenous events will affect the subject of contracts that must comply with this law, which you have proposed these amendments and supplements. Things simply, which can't continue to be noticed, we've heard from both the minister and the governor, that we need to find solutions. If we look at, for example, your ministers are laws, let me say, connected, that I don't go in one by one now, and about bankruptcy and about companies, and the rest. When we say business, we are all witnesses here, so I would say freely all citizens of Serbia, one fact, which is that many companies, independent of the type of enterprise, in some previous period, were allowed by the state to be a trustee in the most cases, to take grant loans, unrequited by the state, and to say, subsidized loans by the state, and then those companies were then immediately after receiving these funds of gassed. At this point, we have 2,080 companies that, for example, are in bankruptcy proceedings. What was won by it, and even by this law is now not settled, what does it get? It turns out we have the best interest in the state, which is to be a bankruptcy manager or an executioner. I don't think that's better than that. Here, let's take an example of a bankruptcy manager who knew that at some point he was taking advantage of the situation, for example former Progressive Minister Sasa Radulovic, got involved in organised crime during his career as a bankruptcy manager without ever having responded. Just for the very reason that this law exists and that, after all, it didn't even apply as it is, it didn't apply. For example, according to the email archive of the Hypo alpe-Adria Bank in Serbia, it is apparent that he was employed as an adviser under the deal of work with a monthly fee of 13,000 euros while he was a minister. He was short, but the simple state must also burden him for this period and period before he became minister, because he committed a crime, right? As is known, this bank was liquidated after a series of affairs that occurred not only in Croatia but also in Croatia, and then former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader fell, but it was not his only sin. Sasa Radulovic led the Privatisation Agency, while he was also a minister in the case of Secerana Dimitrij Tucovic in 1898, in bankruptcy. He was awarded a preliminary prize of two million 550,000 dinars and three million and 600,000 dinar fees. Instead of getting the company out of bankruptcy, they illegally sold equipment and basics, like old iron. At this point today, we not only have, it would take me 105 of these parties to show how many firms we have in bankruptcy, but it's not just those companies that are in bankruptcy, which you inherited, so I'm saying it was very interesting to listen to the MPs of the pro-Western opposition when they criticise the current government, and actually for a good part of these things they're dragging their guilt, the guilt of their time, and these are the companies that, even, we've had in bankruptcy for 18 years from 2000 to today. We don't have a solution to these problems for now. Compared to the previous year, he jumped the number of firms in bankruptcy. Three months ago it was 2,067, now we have 2,080. It's not that it's like that, it's just that we have a small number of those who are solving themselves, so now I don't list those with big problems from Komgrap and so on, but it was interesting, for example, I'm going to use it in another address, for example how the problem and the process of the famous chemical industry "HIPOL", which simply would have been public about it, not only count it, probably someone would have ended up behind bars, and a little bit of what the media wrote about, but it could have been accurate data, not even a bankruptcy manager changed besides everyone, I'm not going to say, I don't like to use the terms of thieving until proven, but the suspicious things that were happening. No one reacted, but there'll be more time in the next period, so we'll talk about it. What made her particularly happy, I must return to the governor. Indeed this morning when she spoke, I listened carefully and asked to speak with a language of fact and to respect her, after all, as a man who achieved the results and I have no problem with it and I will quote her and say that while she was an opposition MP, she never dealt with the lies to get a voice. Is that true? While the governor was a national MP, meaning in the period before the SNS came to power, it was the 2012 campaign, then she was head of the SNS economic team, not to enter how the MPs came into office, it is already known that with Tomislav Nikolic they pulled the mandates of the SRS, she announced that upon coming to power the party would first make the payment obligation to RTS go away. I quote a statement - the proposal to save citizens is to deprive them of the extra cost, the non-payment and the cancellation of the television subscription. That's the truth that we probably don't pay today, I wouldn't be surprised to find out now that television pays for us. Now what's even more interesting. As an MP, she was also a great fighter, and I will quote the largest executioner of the Serbian economy, which is where we will agree, Mladjan Dinkic, and says: "I will continue to present in parliament evidence of the millions of abuses that Mladjan Dinkic and his associates have done in the past period. However, I gave up on suing him for insults, not to withdraw in courts and lawsuits, but to fight politically against him," the daily "Today", on 6 March 2011. If we return on 8 April 2010, the debate on the Regional Development Act, which was suspended yesterday, remained in the shadow of the conflict between SNS MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic and Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Tabakovic claimed that after she brought a series of criticisms to his account, Dinkic approached her and told her that she was a dog. Dinkic, however, told reporters that Jorgovanki told lies, and the people say he is lying as a dog. Both announced lawsuits against each other, and the debate was continued in the O.R., so Tomislav Nikolic defended. Furthermore, impatience went to that point that Tabakovic said she would never drink coffee with Dinkic. Right? Is that true, that you made a statement? (Jorganka Tabakovic: I didn't say that. ) Here, I'll tell you – March 6, 2011. She asked if she would drink coffee with him, for the daily "Today", in a congregation restaurant with a smile, it is appropriate to choose society. Urs formation, Jorvanka Tabakovic, I am talking about the URS of Mladjan Dinkic, who was a G17 plus, says he is making a party of the United Regions that will skip the censorship and remain in power to preserve dirty traces of how money is available. Well done. You made that coalition with Mladjan Dinkic, immediately after the formation of the party, the 2012 election, I will remind you of July 2012 and have just enabled him to keep dirty traces of the way the money is available. Since you like to talk about facts, there is much more, Mrs. Tabakovic, indeed. You were once nice to listen, while you were an SRS MP, except for one thing, when you convinced MP Zoran Despotovic and Vesna Vukajlović Nikolic to be in charge of the Swiss, Natasha you failed, so thank God you didn't create a problem for her, but they did, and there was this economic vision that you took with you to SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37747	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37748	Let me start with this last one. I've never advised anyone to be in charge, not in any currency to be in debt. Whoever told you this did not tell you the truth, because I today insist that Serbia's citizens should be provided with all the information because the decisions are personal. Whoever's saying someone talked him into something, I don't want to comment. You're right. I told Mr. Dinkic I would never drink coffee with him, and I didn't, believe me. What's the problem that needs to be seen and not everyone can solve in their lives, and if they're engaged in public work and political activity, sometimes you have to measure what your personal word is and some greater weight, as the goal you're fighting for, where you have to sacrifice something of your own freedom. You know what they say - civilization. Civilization offers a man many democratic achievements, including democracy, if you will, as the best form of expression of his own will and participation in the management of his own life, but gives you a portion of freedom and subjugates you all. The question is for each of us individually – how much do you believe in any idea in which you were used, used or abused? The decision of each of us is to say what is greater harm to him, to accept the formation of the government as it is, in which the necessary member was Mladjan Dinkic, not by my decision, but by my consent, which I was not a member of the Government, but in this position where I am and who has worked very professionally with him and when he was in government. You know why? Sometimes, to change the wheel of history, you must suffer a personal loss. I hope you understand. All those who aren't, I don't care. You know what they say: "Those who do not love you will never love you." Those who love you and understand the reasons for your actions or, even better, benefit as the largest number of citizens from what you're doing will not resent you, and I always have my own court as the strongest. Yes, I earned the mandate of the SRS by my work. In 1996, the SRS programme and the front page of "The Great Serbia" I am keeping even now, because it was something that we were doing under the supervision of Mr Vojislav Seselj, as party president, with my personal efforts and not to mention colleagues, some today are not among us, let them have an easy black country, we worked on that programme. I've always done my job honestly and honestly, and believe me, I'm happy to remember my period and everything that's after the divergence, and some rubicons have to move on in life, you make your own decisions. I've never had a problem with what anyone would think about it. How good it was for Serbian citizens that such a decision was made tells the results of today's SNS, which I founded, along with the people I'm proud of. When it comes to the law, Article 2 of Section 9, which you say you don't know why it says, in the Law on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in the distance, I would ask you, as a very pedantic, to look at Article 29. – entry into force, which says: "This law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and applies after three months of its entry into force", is now the most important one, "except for the provisions of Article 2(4) of point (9)", which is why you had no security at this time. That's an explanation. It will apply from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union. So the point of Article 9, which you asked for, has its reasons at the moment of entry into force and application. You asked why the regulation on the restriction of interbank fees does not apply to tripartite schemes. The three-sided schemes are Diners and American Express. The regulation applies to both quadruples and tripartite schemes. Only this Article 3 does not apply to tripartite, not because they are placed in a more favourable position, but because, by definition, two banks participate in the transaction. Two banks don't participate, so there's no interbank fee. How can two banks not participate? The same bank is a publisher and a receiver. It may not have been clearly written in the very text of the law, but it's an explanation. So it's not an exception, it's not an advantage, it's a transaction in one bank that has two roles at the same time. The penalties you have mentioned relate to penalties in the protection procedure in the individual procedure for the protection of the rights and services of the users. This does not call into question penalties normally imposed under the Banks Act. So these two things don't shut down, they don't overlap, so that means they can go up to 10% of the bank's annual income. It's about penalties defined by the Banks Act. We can discuss this in more detail, if you have any further questions, when we discuss in particular. You asked why it was possible to conclude a distance contract, in the form of an electronic document, without using a qualified electronic signature and on what criteria did we define the maximum value of the contract? The reason for this is the insufficient distribution of the use of qualified electronic signatures in natural persons and by taking the interest that what we really provide as a regulation in application should also be brought into practice. In view of the fact that the two-factor authentication method has been used for years in electronic banking for the purpose of giving orders for the execution of payment transactions, we believe it is justified to use it in the conclusion of the contract to a certain value. How did we get that value? We took based on the estimated average value of the contract for which the conclusion in electronic form occurs most often. We simply determined that it was worth something, which doesn't mean that we can't continue to discuss that logic and that value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37749	Thank you. The word is Branislav Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37750	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in already established practice, when calling for this session, we have an example of abuse of assembly procedures. Namely, the session was called on Wednesday for Friday, and the MPs were left with just over 24 hours to prepare. That's already said in an earlier discussion. We have a set of important financial laws on the agenda. However, this poor practice, repeated from session to session, serves to keep the proposed legislative solutions under the radar and public attention. Unfortunately, it will also be adopted, and the citizens to whom these important changes will not be informed or introduced. This is a devastating practice that we have been criticising for two years and that has completely devised the work of this Parliament. At first, I would refer to the main law of this session, which is the proposal for a law on financial security. It is an extremely important law, and I find it very strange that this bill, along with other proposals for the finance law, was put before the MPs only three days after the new finance minister was voted by the ruling majority's will and votes. This suggests that the previous finance minister may have refused to propose these laws and support them and that maybe that's why he resigned, knowing that they are bad for the citizens of Serbia, their companies, but also for the entire economy of our country. That is why we express logical doubt and fear of the consequences of the adoption of these laws. At first glance at the draft law on financial security, there is a discrepancy of the proposed law with the general principles of bond law, which violates the equality of the parties in a contractual relationship, including the principle of security and honesty. The realisation of security funds, which are newspapers in our law and do not fit into the logic of the legal system, is done in a way that is excessively favourable to security recipients. Deeper analysis shows that under alleged reforms and harmonisation with European legislation, the practice of law-making continues to benefit the interests of large capital, without paying attention to the coherence of the legal system and the protection of citizens. The aim of this law is to get liquid assets and significant assets out of bankruptcy proceedings and to transfer to any factoring, buying-in companies, beating claims, and to damage workers and trust firms in bankruptcy through these mechanisms, such as domestic companies and domestic legal entities. This law puts the factoring of houses and banks in a privileged position, which is why, in our opinion, it is unconstitutional, so the protection against bankruptcy applies only to them and not to other creditors. That's why the Financial Security Act and the Financial Services Consumer Protection Act are in the package for a distance contract, thus destroying domestic economy, foreign investors, among whom it is expected to show up new of the company's shorts. Serbia is turning one step at a time into a banana state, providing full support to foreign investors, where any of the short companies appear. "Enough has been enough" said Sasa Radulovic, as early as 2013, proposed amendments to the Bank's bankruptcy law, under which such changes would not only be illegal, but would also be criminally prosecuted. He also suggested connecting the internships and payments of the backlogs, which would have entered the first payment order, so that the workers would be paid first of all. If this had happened, thousands of workers and their families wouldn't be in trouble today and on the verge of existence. This is how it's going to lose any chance of paying off the debt from the bankruptcy. The essence of the law proposed by the Government is – everyone will have protection except for domestic legal and physical persons. Protection is given to foreign investors and to short companies. Also, it is disputed here that the proposed legal solution does not protect citizens or legal persons from banks that violate laws and regulations. The best example is loans in the Swiss francs, which have brought tens of thousands of our country's citizens into debt slavery, and the state does not want to solve this problem, as all other countries in the environment and their responsible governments have dealt with. This is also the problem of unwarranted margins, as well as unilateral changes in interest rates, and these are just some of the examples. The National Bank didn't monitor and users don't have a way to get her to do her job. The only thing left for citizens to face with the banking system is the damages claim and that they try to fight against the police system. Instead of such a proposed law, what we would have to do is, through the law, allow users of financial services to initiate infringements and that the National Bank of Serbia has an obligation to make decisions on those infringements through an administrative act. Until that happens, the National Bank of Serbia will continue to protect the banking lobby. To conclude, all this law allows is to protect foreign financial institutions. With this bill, the current power clearly and unequivocally once again tramples the rights of its citizens, making them second-class citizens in its own country. Also mentioned legal solutions, instead of expected improvements, aim only to make Serbia a banana state. It's only good for those who intend to further extract capital and money from our country, making it more poor. Let's remind ourselves, for a decade and a half, the economy is actively collapsing in Serbia. "Enough is enough" wants to create a system that will protect and restore dignity to the citizens of this country. Every normal state protects the interests of its citizens and its businesses, because it is a pillar on which it rests and progresses every successful state. When we come to power, we will abolish all these harmful laws. We are actively working on our versions of these laws that we will present to the Assembly and citizens who are in the exclusive interest of the citizens of Serbia and the economy of this country. Now something about the bankruptcy law. New changes to the law on bankruptcy and the Financial Security Act, which are reportedly being passed for reform and regulation of the financial market, actually only favour various phantom factoring and similar agencies and continue to undermine the role of the state and expose citizens to a direct financial impact, because these laws legalise kidnapping. The bankruptcy trusts remain unprotected, and the process itself becomes a farce. Previously, the law on bankruptcy, abounds in errors and inconsistencies, and the legislator was to deal with correcting the same, rather than even worsening the situation of creditors. Employees in the first bankruptcy order are irrelevant to the authorities. It's important to get the money privileged. Many of the provisions of the current Banking Act adopted in December, as well as other laws passed quickly and without debate, are already sufficiently confusing and illogical from the point of view of the logic of the bankruptcy process. Together with the proposed amendments, they conflict with the basic principles of bankruptcy law, the principle of equal treatment and equality and the principle of protection of creditors and proportionate settlement. The meaning of these principles that the whole procedure should be conducted is in a situation of overindebtedness all creditors get proportionally, not some nothing, and some all. Enabling the primary settlement of financial security holders, which is also introduced by a new law that is on the agenda by bringing all liquid assets primarily to these privileged creditors, factoring agencies and similar holders of newly invented financial security funds, to an unequal position of other creditors, primarily workers who should be settled first. Instead of equal and proportionate protection and distribution of funds and bankruptcy, the entire bankruptcy process will be played out and unthinked. The relationship between factoring companies and similar institutions sheds light on the motive for the express adoption of this set of laws. The government's motives are clear, continued robbery and privatisation of the public sphere. Laws and institutions exist for forms, while legal protection of citizens does not exist. This kind of business, which, under the cover of the need to speed up the enforcement process, leads to a paradoxical situation, where someone's immobility is possible to sell with express and without an adequate judicial protection mechanism for debtors. Citizens stay out of homes overnight to make peace with the banks. Along with the enormous powers given to public executioners, whose work citizens have daily problems, authorities, the adoption of these laws turns Serbia into a periphery of world capitalism, leaving its branches without the possibility of protecting their fundamental rights. Such and similar laws in Europe have not passed a constitutionality test anywhere and are only possible in the banana-transition states of the Balkans and Eastern Europe. It's a legalized kidnapping. There is no state in Europe where citizens are in a weaker position than banks and similar institutions. Now I'd like to talk about a bill on amendments and amendments to the Business Society Act. During a public debate on the company law, held last September and October, participants had the opportunity to discuss the draft law. What we find problematic is that precisely the provision relating to the forced purchase of shares of incompatible shareholders in public action societies did not represent the original part of the draft law itself, and the subject of the public debate itself was already introduced in the draft law after the same and the participants in the public debate did not have the opportunity to present their observations and suggestions during the discussion. Why was this norm not the subject of a public debate and whose initiative was included in the draft bill? We are witnessing very suspicious developments in practice where fictitious legal jobs at the last minute before shopping created situations that favor interested actors, buyers. For example, the AIK bank case. Large companies with a number of minority shareholders, such as "Nikola Tesla" or "Comerial Banks", can thus be sold beyond the consent of shareholders, in this case all citizens of Serbia. Citizens will be damaged, and investors will receive valuable assets at the cost of actions they themselves fund. The process described will damage a large number of minority disagreeable shareholders, citizens, who will be paid at a cost far lower than what they really are worth. The draft law amending and supplementing the Business Society Act, unfortunately, represents another form of abuse of this authority, as well as many laws that have been adopted so far. We believe that this law will also protect the interests of certain persons, but not the citizens of Serbia. How does the whole process of giving concessions to the airport go into secret and its real effects on Serbia's budget, how does the state intend to take over the airport in Nis at the same time, and now to amend the law on companies, ask the question until when will this government continue to meet the wishes and fully comply with the interests of foreign investors and start working for the benefit of its fellow citizens? In the end, the Act on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services when Contracting remotely. The text of the Act on the Protection of Customers of Financial Services in remote contracts was submitted by the NBS. According to this proposal, the NBS imposes penalties on banks and other legal entities not under the jurisdiction of the NBS in the same cases are liable for offences. The legal nature of those penalties, which are clearly not a violation under the law, no one can determine. In what procedure, and where is it prescribed, you intend to impose those penalties, gentlemen of the NBS? Do they have any rights that belong to them as they do, for example, in criminal or criminal proceedings, or do they not? Can the damaged take part in the procedure in accordance with the rights to which they belong under the EU directives and the European Convention? I know these are difficult questions for Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic, so I tried to get acquainted with the practice of NBS and find out how it's been done and found so far. It wasn't done. Bank clients have so far been unable to initiate a procedure to impose fines against the bank and to participate in it with a full range of human rights. That's why I understand what a phantom fine is for. It serves that, as so far, there is an illusion that banks, like all other economic operators, can be punished if they break the law, but that will not happen. It's for showing how unprofessional and powerless you are in front of a banking lobby and not even allowed to violate the law by banks to qualify as a violation. Finally, it serves to confirm our willingness to be slaves in our own country. In short, the fine that will be prescribed for banks serves in order not to be said in practice. There's something else about this draft. Article 13 of this Act provides that the user does not have the right to give up interest, currency and action swaps and the like. Is that what you want to secure in Switzerland, because the currency clause in the Swiss francs falls under that very term, I mean the currency swap? It has not yet been said by our courts, but it is, for example, the Supreme Court of Spain and the courts of many other states in Europe. Is that the basic purpose of this law, to prepare the ground, to survive these illegal contracts under which the entire families are looming? And I finally ask the question – is it possible that this country is working so hard against its citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37751	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37752	I thank the President, the Honorable Minister Djordjevic, the Honorable Governor Tabakovic with his associates, I, at the very beginning of this discussion when we consider a set of laws relating to the financing and provisions of the Bank Act, as well as the Business Society Act, will undoubtedly support these drafts of the law. Of all these laws, I will concentrate my attention on two laws that I consider to be of particular importance, not diminishing the importance, in any case, of the first six laws, which are the provisions of the Law on Economic Society and the Law on Vulnerabilities, of course, of amending these provisions. I have to point out right away that the Company Act in one of its legal institutes deserves special attention, it's the Institute of Force Liquidation. This is because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, six years ago, was abolished, or put out of force and declared unconstitutional so-called. automatic bankruptcy or bankruptcy by official duty. Since then, until today, until this government has introduced a certain order in both the area of finance and the introduction of order into the field of bankruptcy, and through the judicial system, where economic courts are particularly burdened, we have had enormous problems. These problems were linked to a few facts. The first is the fact that companies for several years did not submit financial reports, i.e. final accounts, and for all the time for which the final accounts were not submitted, which means that there was a bankruptcy reason, and the bankruptcy implies a more permanent incompetence of payment. What else could be an account block for more than a year than a permanent failure to pay? Despite that fact, however, no one submitted a proposal to open the bankruptcy. If there is no proposal, we automatically remain in the situation that the company, which operates with huge losses, is burdening the state, burdening the budget, does not settle obligations and thus does certain damages, and with far-reaching consequences. Now we have an institute that, we are confident in the SPS parliamentary group, this situation is extremely negative, which means that in the short winding-up process, we will first establish the financial situation, call on the creditors, transparently call on the liquidator to correct everything that implies inadequacy in his business and ultimately to end this liquidation process, because the inevitableness of most of the liquidation proceedings is caused by bankruptcy, i.e. those who, as liquidators who cannot be resuscitated in the liquidation process, automatically go into bankruptcy with all the consequences of bankruptcy. We now have the situation that a huge number of companies, which burden both the economy and the finance and the state in general, especially the budget of the Republic of Serbia, are being subjected to this legal institute and are in some way placed in the legal framework they deserve, which is bankruptcy. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, Minister Djordjevic, you have given an extremely correct explanation, which is why the promoter has been identified for these changes and complements of bankruptcy, and we support and welcome it. We welcome the team before we can have laws that are in collegiate with each other. In a specific case, the Banking Act must not be in collegiate with the Financial Security Act. This is one of the reasons that is certainly the most important reason to introduce changes, i.e. to amend certain provisions of the Banking Act that I consider to be extremely precise and systematic. For the sake of the public, it is primarily part of the expert public that expresses the skepticism of these changes, we must point out one fact that cannot be doubted, which is that this is not about privileged or benefitted, however, those who have certain benefits to creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, but it is about creditors who must have an appropriate legal framework, where collaterals appear as means of security of their claims. These are dinar or foreign exchange assets on a business account, credit lines, or credit agreements and the realisation of these credit lines. In this situation, these creditors are protected on the one hand, and on the other hand, there is no question of anything that is the essence of bankruptcy, nor the objective of bankruptcy, nor the application of bankruptcy principles, nor the most favourable settlement of creditors, any bankruptcy in its essence implies when it comes to the requests of creditors under their application, in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act. So, this is a newspaper that and what it means and which will contribute greatly to the efficiency of bankruptcy, so before, I don't know if you pointed out that in the opening statement, that is, before it comes to not only international rules, but to rules that are already represented in neighbouring countries, in countries in the region, countries that are gravitating Serbs. So, maximum support for these changes. However, honourable Minister Djordjevic, there is something we must assess extremely critical. I ask you to pass it on to your resolute colleague by the SPS parliamentary group. The question arises as to why the Banks Act did not bring about changes that are inevitable and that have caused enormous adverse consequences, and which have been under the scope of the expert public for a long time? In particular, the proposal did not intervene in those provisions of the laws under suspicion of constitutionality. I'll be very precise to be understood. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia equates state and private property. So all forms of property are equal and there are absolutely no dilemmas. Also, reminders for the sake of business companies operating with majority social capital are the only ones who can be a bankruptcy manager is the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. I ask the question – why? If the forms of property are even and private and state-owned have the same treatment, the same weight, why would the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants be exclusively a bankruptcy manager in companies operating with majority social capital? Why couldn't it be any bankruptcy manager? Why wouldn't it be Pera Perić or Mika Mikic, this is metaphorical, who have the license of bankruptcy managers, who have full capacity to implement everything that is related to jurisdiction and the law prescribed powers of the bankruptcy manager, but must be done by the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers? This is not a criticism against ALSU, because personally in 2014 I struggled that the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, which was then threatened to cease to exist, to remain because it was the only competent institution that would allow all bankruptcy managers to behave in accordance with the law. But here we now have a situation that is extremely problematic. On the one hand, we have bankruptcy managers who are bankruptcy managers in companies with majority economic capital, and cannot be bankruptcy managers in companies with majority social capital. This anachronism that has existed for a long time has to be removed, because the Constitution is what it is. After all, what contributes to the accuracy of this fortress is this. In no rare cases in practice, the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants has failed, unintendedly, to exercise control over the work of the creditor of the bankruptcy managers. Why am I saying this? The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants is not an independent bankruptcy manager, but is responsible for its powers, which are prescribed by law, through the trustee. Now, if he's running through the trustee, then the trustee must be under special supervision by the Agency for the License of Banks Managers. Is that how it's always been? I assure you it's not. Why do I assure you it's not? Because I know from personal professional experience that there are bankruptcy items, that there are parts of the bankruptcy mass in terms of the immovable property that has been completely untapped, where in the composition of the bankruptcy mass of the warehouses, shops, business space, halls, production plants, which are tragically empty, where no one has remembered, and this is the obligation of the creditor of the bankruptcy manager, in order to preserve the bankruptcy mass on the one hand, and on the other hand, the achievement of the income that contributes to increasing the bankruptcy mass to rent these assets. There are many tenants who can't wait to come to this place under favourable conditions, at favourable prices, who could use it as a function of performance. The creditor’s creditors in a number of bankruptcy cases did not take into account at all one such obligation that implies the obligation to preserve and increase assets, and refers to assets that are essentially bankrupt. Furthermore, what also involves a kind of problem, a problem that is related to the determination of bankruptcy managers, or trustee of bankruptcy managers, so it happens that a bankruptcy debtor in Uzic, where I come from, is being appointed as a trustee by a bankruptcy manager from Belgrade, or in a town in southern Serbia, a bankruptcy manager from northern Serbia is being appointed. Just explain to me where logic is and how can one who is not naturally inhabited and has no residence in a place where bankruptcy is managed know the economic situation, the weight of the bankruptcy problem, the status of a creditor etc? Didn't we legally regulate that just in front of business courts, I speak to the economic courts responsible for the conduct of a bankruptcy case, to determine the appropriate number of creditors? So why aren't these creditors engaged, but they're bringing a man 200, 300 km away from where a bankruptcy is being conducted? Finally, there is a problem for which, Minister Djordjevic, I assume you will also transfer where it is necessary, and we in the SPS parliamentary group have long considered that bankruptcy matter should return to the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, not to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, because the Ministry of Economy will only help the economic courts with the greatest burden when it comes to bankruptcy, because a complete bankruptcy procedure is being conducted in front of economic courts, to be a kind of logistics and support and help, and to propose a law on bankruptcy to be the Ministry of Justice. Why am I saying this? Because of the fact that in the law of bankruptcy, just business courts have tried to solve a situation that the legislator has not solved, and I am going to ask you to pay attention to that. In a situation where bankruptcy is concluded, when trust is settled, there is no need for any further request. There's property left, property that hasn't been cashed. What about that property legislator doesn't speak? Whom does this property belong to, after the bankruptcy and after the trustee's settlement? Does it belong to the state? Does it belong to trustees, owners, who? Let's also consider the situation in an appropriate way. Property owners are no longer property owners. The owner of the property is the one who manages and manages the property, and this is the creditor of bankruptcy. This property has become a bankruptcy mass. The bankruptcy mass is governed by the one prescribed by law to manage the property that represents the essential bankruptcy mass. So, no more owners. The owner can be a state or the property will be handed over to the trustees. I think that these economic courts have responded to the task in the best possible way and decided in their decisions, which constitute a form of judicial practice, that these assets are indeed handed over to the creditors relatively percentage of their settlement. What is also important, very important to point out is the fact that all these procedures, and winding-up procedures and all other procedures, must be as short as possible. For both Governor Tabakovic and you, dear Minister Djordjevic, there is the same well-intentioned message. If we don't shorten our procedures, we'll only do additional damage to the state. Currently, more than 2,000 bankruptcy cases are facing business courts in Serbia. Commercial courts are in the most difficult position, because the focus of the length of proceedings is most negatively observed when it comes to commercial courts and it is considered that the violation of the right to trial is bound within a reasonable period of time to commercial courts, which is absolutely not true, absolutely not because before bankruptcy there are other proceedings, I was talking about liquidation proceedings. Prior to the opening of bankruptcy, litigation proceedings are conducted in front of the basic courts, procedures are conducted for several years, even ten years. And when all this goes through, the case comes to a commercial court, a bankruptcy takes two, three years, and commercial courts are guilty of violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period, which is why the most applicants in Strasbourg are before the Court of Human Rights, where this court is the one that obliges the state to make high fees, to the high amounts of damages. Whose pocket? Whose kick? I will strike the citizens, and the most blow to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which you and how well you know. I think that in that direction, everyone, not just the judiciary, not just the courts, everyone has to make a contribution so that all the actions that preceding them are implemented as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible, so that these situations never happen again. Otherwise we'll get into an even harder position. Otherwise, we're going to get into a situation where the budget is much more burdened than it is right now, because before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg it's not just bankruptcy and it's not just bankruptcy. In the end, I want to point out something else. When I was talking about positive sides and positive reflexes to the provisions of the bankruptcy law, I forgot to mention NBS, which is very important. The National Bank of Serbia has its jurisdiction to control the work of exactly those creditors who protect or provide their claims based on collateral. This is why it is particularly important, and particularly important because of the NBS, that these collaterals meet the obligations towards creditors according to the contracts concluded on the basis of financial security funds, and these financial security funds, as I said, are dinar and foreign funds on business accounts, these are credit lines, these are bonds, etc. If this in practice, as envisaged and proposed by Minister Djordjevic in the opening part, is truly realised in full capacity, then there will be no more problems when it comes to contractors who have agreed to secure their financial claims and we will not have a problem after and with bankruptcy. Why? Because the Banking Act is in line with the Financial Business Act, and then we no longer have the collapsing, then we have no more problems, and we have made it easier for the NBS, or we have removed one large burden of NBS when it comes to controlling the work of these entities that I'm talking about right now. That is why I think that, in this sense, the NBS achieves the appropriate benefit of the amendments and additions of the Bank's Law, which is why we, as a state, achieve certain security or increase our capacity when it comes to negotiating chapters and when it comes to all those things that relate to our position as candidates for entry into the EU's community. I think we're going that way safely and we're going to get to the finish line no matter how anyone else looks at it. You, anyway, I want maximum support. We will support these laws, and it is interesting that today one opposition MP supported these laws, and the main bankruptcy generator that took place after the adoption of the 2001 Criminal Law on Privatisation, followed by hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs due to such bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37753	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37754	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I'd like to discover the three dilemmas you have so you don't have to worry about voting for this bill and I think you should have the right to an explanation. I'll start with the last remark, when it comes to bankruptcy. You yourself know what the purpose of bankruptcy is, to properly deploy something on which trustees are to have a bankruptcy mass. When it settles down from the bankruptcy mass, there are rare cases of a surplus that, of course, belongs to whoever owns it, you can't take it away, so you say, stick to the Constitution and you know what the property is. So you introduced bankruptcy as some extraordinary instrument to make up for all those who had confidence in, say, that company by then. When it comes to the selection of bankruptcy managers and here you had in your first remarks a dilemma about the Constitution and constitutional law, so all of them are equal citizens of Serbia, it does not have to be discriminated against that he lives in another place and that is why we do not give him to be a bankruptcy manager. If he's a good bankruptcy manager, if he's got a license, he deserves to be there and we shouldn't have, to say, someone in advance mistrust with some bankruptcy manager just because he's not from that place, and maybe it's an advantage that he doesn't know these people and he may not be biased, so he should also have a dilemma that sometimes it's better. Your first remark was precisely what you consider social property to be something that may not be done today in accordance with the Constitution or the law... You know for a fact that social property was expelled in the Constitution in 2006. Yes, there are, unfortunately, companies and companies with us that still have social property and that, let me say, the status of these companies may not be resolved by today, although it has the good will to get rid of them. Maybe the best example for that is the dedicated industry. Certainly the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Defence are working together on it and that surely now, after this law was passed here in the Assembly and there to resolve social property. The Privatisation Agency, when it ceased its work, had transferred jurisdiction to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, because it was the one who cared about this social property, so that it could be transformed in the best way into some other property that was recognised by the Constitution and the law, whether it was state-owned, whether it was private and should not be entered into. I think they will best make a decision on how and how it will be transformed and here we will see, perhaps now, in the future of a case that will happen in Serbia's dedicated industry. So don't worry. This law and these changes that took place here will also follow this new law that is within the jurisdiction of the National Bank and together will have a whole new dimension and, as I said, certainly improve the environment in our Serbia and provide one additional security to all investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37755	There are no conditions for replication. He gave you a nice answer, so he can't really. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. He can't. (Nedjo Jovanovic: everyone had the right to do so. Yes, but they were challenged to respond again, and he didn't say anything to you. In accordance with Article 104. (Nedjo Jovanovic: We did not understand each other.) I can't, to others, and to you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37756	The Honorable President, the Honorable Governor, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we have been having a debate all day long, and I think we've heard a lot from both MPs and MPs about all these laws, the bill proposals, and we've heard from the representatives who explain these laws. I'm going to try to systematicize a few things, at least three topics that I found interesting, listening to this whole debate. I can agree here, and I will begin by agreeing with one of the suggestions of the governor, who once said that it is amazing how easily he uses false information or false information, or perhaps behind it is a lack of knowledge. I think it was necessary to perhaps warn the minister when he was talking about public debt that way, and I'm sure you noticed that and I think it was important that I, Mr. Minister, remind you, when you spoke of public debt in 2012, said 14 billion. First, you cut that public debt, it was bigger. So you're protecting that previous regime that way by saying it. I think that public debt at the time of taking responsibility for this majority was about 15 billion or something more in July and did not stand out as you said 70% of your participation in GDP, but at that point it amounted to something more than 45, maybe 48, 49. You're talking about the end of 2012, and I'm talking about July at the time of the takeover, because the new government and then the minister raised a two-billion loan in September and cannot be attributed to the debt. I'm only talking about the data, about agreeing with you that you need to use precise data. Here's how you made your conclusion: 14 billion in July, which is not true, was 15 billion, and you said that it was 70% of the participation in GDP, and you made that GDP in Serbia was 20 billion in 2012. That was your conclusion. You can imagine what it's like for us to hear such data. Absolutely not based on facts. So the facts are very different, the fact is that it was 15 billion, just to conclude that, the fact is that at that moment, in July of the month, that percentage of public debt in GDP exceeded that legal limit of 45% and was somewhere at 48% and when you calculate, then the GDP in that year was about 32 billion euros. So it's a contribution to the discussion of facts. Speaking of which, I didn't want to talk about her, but you motivated me. I would like to say a few things about the responsibilities of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and I must say that these are topics that need to be supported and realised. Therefore, the second programme loan for policy development in the field of public expenditure of public enterprises. Of course, the transformation of public enterprises is necessary and necessary. Unfortunately, she's late. The conditions for the transformation of public enterprises were also the application of public property laws. Unfortunately, we are three times delaying the application of the Public Property Act with the registration of public enterprises' assets and the acceleration of the necessary process of corporateisation of all public enterprises. We're here in phase two of that loan. So 182m euros amounted to a signed loan on 20 January 2017. This is now the amount of a 160m-euro loan. The second loan is 40m euros, a total of 200m, therefore, for the transformation of the state banking sector and a third loan in support of financing Serbia's health development is 25m euros, so somewhere around 225m euros in debt. I will not dispute the need for better health care in Serbia, I will not dispute the need to modernise public enterprises, to co-operate, and to make them as effective as possible. Of course, it is necessary, I am convinced, that Serbia needs a strong state bank, or more. It is necessary to have strong players in the banking sector who can in some way be the support of government policy, any, this, tomorrow, or previous government, which can, in some ways, encourage and co-operate with the state bank. So, but what is needed and what I ask of you, as we have discussed with Minister Vujovic, is the evaluation of the projects, and I think it is important to report this Assembly on how these funds are used, and how these funds have been spent. Because what we meet on this initial paper, when we declare loan support, we no longer have absolutely no information in the Assembly, in which way the projects we voted for have been completed. We had a promise from Minister Vujovic, the former finance minister, that we would change it in the Assembly and that we would have the opportunity to get reports, and we had heard a lot of things about each adoption of the budget, and there were six in this assembly majority, this coalition, but we did not get that kind of report on such promised things at either stage. So I remind you that, here, one of the components in the implementation of the health development project in Serbia, is this component 4, which is not financially the most pronounced, but I think is extremely important, and perhaps the most important for us here in the Assembly, which is monitoring the evaluation and management of the project that is set out 1.5m euros. Here, it is also an invitation for the Minister, a call for the President of the Assembly to try to change that practice in the Assembly, and to get reports of what we voted for in this assembly. Speaking of former finance minister, and that goes for the current one, I think this is what I was just talking about, I think it's primarily a matter of responsibility, responsibility when you're in public office, responsibility for the spoken word, and us MPs here in these benches, the governor's responsibilities, and I think we need to talk in an open manner. I'm sure you're not happy either that you're at the head of the National Bank the moment the FATF put us on the blacklist, and I think that, but I'm also talking to the finance minister and about something we certainly know, which is, the Intergovernmental Organisation for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, put Serbia on the blacklist. So, I'm not accusing anyone, but I'm talking about the suspicion that Serbia with its institutions does not have the most effective way to fight the possible financing of such actions. That is why I want to open this topic and talk about how it is a place to talk in the Assembly and how it is possible to pass laws that will prevent this kind of transaction and that kind of transaction, which is certainly not useful for the citizens of Serbia, is not useful for any of us. But I'm sure, in part, that the proposals of these laws that carry and positive solutions should contribute to preventing opportunities and money laundering, and this was most often mentioned through new system solutions, which should prevent that kind of activity. None of us are happy to be on that list. I believe that in this assembly we will pass laws that will strengthen financial institutions, above all, in the state, institutions that deal with and prevent this type of crime. Here we are talking about why I was motivated to talk about it, and I want him to hear it from you, because we have also talked about the need to develop modern and electronic means, and electronic tools in the development of electronic administrations, which essentially opens up these possibilities. Unless we have enough capacity, institutional capacity to rightly combat the growing challenges of this cyber crime, especially in the work of electronic finance, because it is certain that we need a broad cooperation in this sense both with the institutions in Europe and the world. I think you mentioned that part of it, because when you were talking about card transactions and talking about 97%, if I remember correctly, the percentage of card transactions on the domestic market, right, and that out of 97, 83 goes and processes on the outside, I guess in some part you want to go back and put some kind of control over that process, as you said on the Finance Committee. And that's why I want to talk about this bigger picture that's very important, and I want to hear it from you, because I see you've started a lively discussion about how this story of FATF, where that story of these risks came from. I want to talk about it in a way that can contribute to these solutions. That's why we need to open up that topic. I'm sure when you were talking about the pride of this law I was just talking about, you mentioned that article 9. There you certainly had the most pressure and the most conversations on this particular topic, which is the obligation of banks and foreign processors of card transactions that should register their companies and in Serbia according to this interpretation, which, by reason of their argument, demot or narrows down the market or narrows down competition. That's, of course, what we've met through public debates and what you've received safely as suggestions, and I think it's important that we talk this way and hear these very arguments. So where is the limit between this kind of danger and that large percentage of the treatment of card transactions outside the country and where is the problem of closing the market, they say, this problem of shortening or limiting competition, and what will that mean in a technological sense? You know, and I'm sure, despite the growth of our IT sector in Serbia, that we are certainly not at the level of the most developed countries in this area and that our closure in this sense would not be useful and would not contribute to the security of these electronic communications and electronic transactions, because I think it is necessary to find the right measure in that part of the motivation and stimulation of the domestic market, and on the other hand, to preserve this flow of information, the flow of technology and the way to preserve security, and above all I am talking about the interest of our citizens, because it is necessary to maintain maximum security. These laws you're about to adopt will certainly not be final in how many years, this is an area that changes so dynamically and so quickly, and I think that's why we need to talk about these very challenges. Here I was talking about the part of responsibility, and here I am also going to say something about the law and the bill amending the NBS Act. Therefore, it is clear that NBS supervisory functions are being expanded, that there is also a competence to control foreign and exchange transactions. So, the new responsibilities of the NBS, and when we talk about new responsibilities, we should always talk about responsibility. I have spoken several times and this well-known, one of our amendments to the DS Parliament Club was to be deleted in this law on NBS Article 86b. I will read it for other MPs, you certainly know what it means, and translated into this current law, so you don't say it's not on the agenda, here in Article 23 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the NBS Act, it's said that article 86 is changing and then the function is expanded. Those who would practically be under the hat and protection of that member. We suggested that this member be deleted, and here's why. I'll read you this article 86b and I think it's important to say that. To begin with, the first member of the law stance 2 on NBS says – for the obligations of the NBS is guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. So, to be fair, all citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, this article 86b has been practically provided for by the authorities responsible for the management of the NBS, which did not really result in a logical relationship between the liability and the trusted rights of the National Bank and the authorities of the National Bank. I'm not saying this right now because of you current people in the National Bank, I'm talking about future solutions to the National Bank and you're talking about this need, but I want to ask my colleagues and your colleagues, does this really work out for you? Article 86 provides that the NBS, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees shall not be liable for any damage incurred in the conduct of the NBS operations unless it is demonstrated that they have not acted in good faith. For the damages referred to in Article 1, the staff of that position shall not be liable even after the termination of the working relationship in the NBS or the termination of the function. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of representing the person referred to in Article 1 in court and administrative proceedings in connection with the transactions under that position. The National Bank of Serbia will bear the costs of the 3rd member's position and those whose employment relationship in the NBS has ceased. So that solution that, I think, exists only in this NBS Act, in other institutions in Serbia, I'm talking about Serbia, there are no such solutions. So, yeah, I'm waiting for an answer and, of course, I'll be happy to hear the answers. Given the very large trusty rights, above all, the key things are to achieve and maintain price stability, then manage the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia that you were talking about. Now let's talk about Serbia's foreign reserves, and I'll try to talk about concrete data. You were talking about the net foreign reserve and the gross amount, and I'm going to tell you the data I have, you must know them by heart. For example, before the entry into 2012 at the end of 2011, foreign reserves amounted to 12,058 billion euros. Correct me if not true, but the latest data I found for foreign reserves, late May 2018, nine billion and 490 million euros. I'm talking about gross. So I'm talking about the gross amount, I know your answer will be what kind of net and gross structure is, but I think it's important to say what your data is. Another question that is also important and I think we had at adoption, I am going back to adopting the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is a question for you – has some part of the National Bank's budget been paid in the last three or four years? I know that three billion dinars were paid five years ago, that after that we didn't have a budget plan, at least I didn't see it, and I wish that wasn't true, but you will certainly give the right answer about how much money has been paid in the last three or five years to the Republic of Serbia's budget from the part of obtaining the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37757	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37758	You want to start with what's last commented on, and it's about foreign reserves. All data, regardless of what I've done since August, I don't know the government since July, because we have the continuity of a country that has obligations to abroad or in the country, we were obliged to meet them, like that arrangement with the IMF that started to pay off only in 2012. No one's asking us when there was any power over it on the outside. That's why we have a methodology to compare all the data to the end of the year. When you talk about public debt, I'll put the public and the outside in comparison, because it doesn't matter, where you're right, the end of 2011. – yes, any participation 45.4 but in 2012 is 56.2. So, that story we were in front of bankruptcy, it's not a story of sleeping or fearing the people, it's part of that necessity to fill the empty register after changing the government, so that 56.2 isn't anyone's or the girl's cooking or legacy, but the need for the state to work out by paying off the commitments that the previous government has made. So, all the time I insist on what Serbia has experienced as a change, what it inherited, and who it is responsible for, or deserved. I don't have a problem in strengthening the black stuff that you've been doing, and I don't have a problem in strengthening what we're doing. I'm talking about facts. So 56.2 was a participation in 2012 and further increased, by the end of the year, yes, and again what you want to forget, I repeat – what are project loans, i.e. investment that will bring some profit in the future, have income through exports of some other branches working on that infrastructure. What do I want to tell you? What public debt lights up is actually a comparison with external debt. In 2011, which we consider the end as previous authorities, it was 72.2%. At the end of 2012, it was 80% and since then it's starting to fall. In 2013, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 of 19 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Schengen acquis. 74.8%, in 2014 77% increased slightly, in order for that debt to be 69% in 2017 and correspond to this declining trend of public debt that we all communicate like this level of general debt, whose structure we have to look at, but also the trend and the path we talk about as a balance sheet to spend as much as we earn, to return expensive loans and not to return them from new ones. Why is it important to talk about this structure? We're talking about foreign reserves, you say I don't mention the foreign exchange structure of foreign reserves, but I do. Because the foreign exchange reserves in 2012, which you mention, amounted to 12.1, 2011, and you know what the structure is. The net foreign reserve was only 6.7 billion. The liabilities to the IMF were 1.6 billion, so are we bragging about what someone gave us and what we paid for? On this debt, I said, 90m euros cost us the use of these funds, where all indicators were down and down, and 3.6 billion were liabilities to banks, the state can't consider their foreign reserves, so they show up as in structure, bank obligations, liabilities to the IMF and net foreign reserves. So I'm talking from the data on the National Bank website, they haven't changed, they haven't retouched, they've changed methodology, and I always carry data from 2008 to 2017 because we have them all the way from that year. So, the data you're saying 2011 was the highest level of gross foreign exchange reserves, yes, but 3.6 billion were the mandatory reserve that this National Bank returned to banks to finance economic projects, funded citizens and reduced the mandatory reserve to three times close to 9%. So whenever you ask and seal on the structure, I'll always have the data that actually sheds light on our systematicity and fundamentality in the measures that we've taken. Now, just to compare that in 2011, which was record -- 10.4 billion are gross foreign exchange reserves, of which the net foreign reserves, means what is really state, 8.6 billion, liabilities to the IMF zero and liabilities to banks 1.8. In this period, 2011, i.e. 2012 and 2017, i.e. 2018, which I am talking about, we returned these 1.6 billion IMFs, cost us 90 million euros, the use of these funds, the indicators of growth, and further, were negative, greater surplus, inflation, I will find all the data, I have with me, that in February the three-year stand-by arrangement would have been a precautionary arrangement, without withdrawing the money, cost us that commission feed for the reservation of funds for those three years four million euros, because someone booked, if we need it. And that's all the expenses we had on that arrangement. With this fiscal consolidation we had, Serbia still had growth, and from that deficit, it went into surplus and repaying its debts, not in debt, most significantly concentrated code, I won't use any qualifications because when someone gives you money when you need it, you can't say it's an unskilled investor, but it needs to finance the deficit by external debt, which was concentrated in one trustee who could, and it's not exactly that it's not rocking us in critical moments, when the fires were happening, I say fires, in the environment, we replaced the whole structure of the new, quality investors. Those who invest in the long term and go with small profits because they believe that Serbia is in the right sense a country that is growing stable and sustainable. Each of the data I have provided is publicly available, not a combination. So, the public external debt story, the story of the total coverage, without covering the debts under the carpet, I don't know, the local self-government, this or that level, that's the benefit of the arrangement that we had, that nothing remains hidden, that there's no under the booking line, that there's no extra-bilition so that it can't be seen, it's all transparent and clear and what I'm saying is verifiable. You have opened a very interesting topic – FATF. Please don't make a mistake. The gray and black colors are very different. Blacklist and gray disaster are different, like the sky and the earth. So, Serbia being on the gray list, I want to hear and know that all citizens, if someone criticises me for not saying what I said, I accept responsibility, which is not the time to say publicly, the biggest problem for the state of Serbia to put on the gray list was, in fact, the late submission of criminal charges for abuse of positions, including money laundering, in certain banking affairs, and primarily in the case of Saric. The largest number of cases, Manival's reports on Serbia refer to the period 2012 and particularly emphasises controversial privatisations, as well as the Saric case. I'm reading from the report. This is particularly contributed by the fact that our system was, is a financial banking system and that the largest number of transactions have just passed through banks, and that the control of the banking system by the NBS, meaning by 2012, has been targeted as highly risky in this report. Is to link the story to the shared four banks, how much it cost us materially and emptyed the deposit insurance agency's fund, and here's how much it costs us in the Manival report. Today, when the FATF, as one regional authority in charge of our country, which deals with the prevention of money laundering, assesses the work of banking controls and the supervision of NBS, I do not invent it, nor assure myself, reports that NBS is one assessed by very high estimates of the type and quality of controls it does. And to link it to that -- that kind of protection of people who do control, it's not our request, I won't defend myself, it's inherited in the previous law, it's a standard for controlling officers who go to a much stronger side, on the side that can treat their dedicated work with abuse, so there's a rule that they're protected, so they can do their control with honor and integrity, and that only extreme necessity and evil intentions prove themselves in the process. Today, a meeting is being held in Paris to report that Serbia and these small ones are really small, because it is about the administrative procedures that have been applied in practice, I am talking about the National Bank, and I mentioned it today, without your calling, about licensing people who enter the financial sector, from the lising of insurance companies, pension, voluntary funds, and also from banks, administrative and supervisory boards. We did this procedure, it was on the National Bank website, clear and visible to everyone, but some details, the ones I mentioned in the bank case, what someone who's authorized a face, what his associate, his second cousin, is, so you have no idea, it goes to the fifth knee. But we ran through the paperwork and the demands of ours and that. And what was the problem? Uncontrollable gamemakers, unsupervised notaries and lawyers who always find a way to avoid that kind of control required by the FATF. The lawyers have only been bonds since 2005 and we had no proof that they had control over them, as there was no evidence that some gamemakers had control. What's important is saying? Even in February, when the meeting was held, the European Commission and almost all countries were on Serbia's side, I will not name only two, which, by the power of their powers, put Serbia on the gray list. Serbia has, from February to today, by that time there, fulfilled absolutely all these administrative shortcomings, which were not essential, but we are suffering from late submissions for the 2012 cases, standing in the drawer for a long time. Is this opening up the problem of the judiciary and everything else that goes on about it and that institute, there's no young colleague to tell him, who hurts me the most about those who don't have any clean leads, and they've done a lot of things in the financial sector, is that some of their friends today use what they do today -- obsolescence, as a kind of drawer where someone thinks a crime can be perfect and never process? I am convinced, however, that this kind of obsolescence, I am talking about some other processes, will not be a protection for those who have worked to harm the Serbian state. So, I am prepared and all the members who in any way represent the government to make a maximum effort within their competences to keep it out of the circumstances, but by developing geopolitical circumstances and force of force, characterised as a gray list, unlike some countries that are far below us, it is resolved in a way that Serbia is not even on the gray list, let alone on the black list. Now let me get all that in touch with Article 9. The law on interbank fees. In fact, the result first is that we're going to be a member of the 9th that's most interesting to you. Here's the thing with the results. What was won in the NBS in 2012, 2.97 billion, was transferred in 2013 and that was mostly the result of those before me. But I have to tell you, the question is at what cost is the National Bank successful. The National Bank is not a profit institution. The objective is to ensure the conditions for the National Bank to gain economics, citizens and all those operating in this area, and it is achieved through stable business conditions, by implementing such monetary policy, which keeps inflation within the limits of the objective and which provides conditions for stable planning and business. In addition, in 2016, the NBS made a profit and to specify for those who forgot that the NBS under Article 77(6), if I remember correctly, only the profit achieved from the operational business. So, not what the curative differences are, and here we are in advantage of other legal persons. So, when companies achieve negative loss rate differences, they have to show it and it's a loss. But when the National Bank loses due to negative exchange rates and movements in the international capital market where its securities are of value, which by nature are reserves and cannot be invested anywhere, it has negative effects, and you know that the negative interest rates and conditions on the international financial market and the National Bank has not reduced the value of the paper it has not sold. The National Bank of Serbia has not reduced the value of gold, and has increased the amount of gold by nearly five tonnes. We now have a quantity of 19.5 tonnes of gold, which due to the oscillation of prices on the market is only recorded, so the NBS transfers to the state only the profit achieved from the operational business in 2016, what the state of Serbia collects from the National Bank, as a tax, and we pay in contrast to other international card schemes, VAT, even to the revenues made on the basis of that part of business and based on the profits achieved, we transferred to Serbia 9.6 from operating profits to billions and 404 million taxes from regular business on the commercial market. So, what was charged, which was paid as an inheritance from the predecessors, of three billion, the NBS last year paid its state a trip of three, ten billion. Because in some of the procedures where the National Bank was given the right to run bankruptcy, we did it effectively and the property on which some of them lived very well, for decades, she managed to charge and transfer the state to a part of it. That's when we get it. When we speak to you interesting Article 9, Mr. Kiriq, should I speak or not speak? What do you think? Well, everyone asks me what we didn't before, you ask only, and what Article 9 did you submit to delete, I've already seen it, or let's repeat, of 97% of the domestic payment transactions our citizen pays to a trader or raises cash on a domestic bank ATM, are domestic transactions, only three are international. The value of these transactions is 95% domestic and 5% foreign. Of all that, 80% are processed, accounted abroad. By two international card schemes that do not pay a single tax in Serbia, VAT has also been released, because they deal with mediation and I would not like to announce the figures we have come to indirectly, because someone will ask me even louder, and why you did not find out earlier as the state of Serbia looks to save every penny, every euro, and to invest it in some action that will contribute to GDP growth. No one defends, I'll be brief, because we have a chance to talk and debate in detail. No one defends card schemes from abroad, rather than the Payment Services Act has given them the right since 2014, the law has entered into force as it is now, nine months after the adoption to prepare. So October 2015 to register the payment system. It is not a discriminatory provision that they cannot be a first-source card, but that the state of Serbia must provide through whoever is in charge, the security of the payment system, and therefore they must, if they want to be a first-election card to be licensed in Serbia for that type of work, make those 80% out there working for domestic transactions, work in Serbia. One Bulgaria is an EU member, so there is a system of fighters where the alignment for this type of transaction is carried out at Bulgaria's central bank. And there is no country that doesn't work like that, and Slovenia, and France, and Germany, and Denmark. If you ask me who's not working? I can't tell you right now. So much for Article 9 and what it means for the security of the payment system and for the possibility of those who have had the opportunity since 2015 to register the payment system and to do this kind of work done by the Central Bank as some, let me say, general operator for everyone. They would not be the first, but there are already payment systems in Serbia that the NBS has licensed. We'll continue in the details. I apologize, when I talk to someone, I turn around, and only to you, but in fact there's going to be an opportunity to argue still, if you have any questions, I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37759	Thank you. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37760	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ministers with associates, respected Mrs Tabakovic with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have very important laws ahead of us, and at the very beginning I would say that the PS-NSS-USS will support these laws for two reasons. We initially consider these laws to be of great quality. We believe that it will complete the work of the NBS, that the work will be more efficient and that we will have even better results than we have so far. The second reason is that within the coalition where we are and are working, that coalition works very efficiently, teamly and indeed the results would surely fall behind if there is no teamwork. We have before us today a law on amendments and additions to the NBS Act. I would like to list the following continents, the abolition of the supervision of financial institutions, which tells us that we are following EU trends and modernising the work of the NBS. The National Bank of Serbia will carry out this by taking over certain responsibilities of the tax administration as we consider very good because a certain part of the supervision will go that way and group, resulting in uniform supervision which will significantly affect the efficiency of the work. This law will also include, instead of the director of the administration, a vice governor who is otherwise a member of the Executive Board, but we see nothing here because the National Assembly will continue to control the work of the NBS and it is important for us to keep it that way, because the citizens of Serbia have elected us here. We are here for the citizens of Serbia, and the most important thing is that everything that is done here is done exclusively for the benefit of Serbian citizens. An important part of the proposed law is the selection of NBS officials before the end of the term of office. Why does it matter? Well, if we remember it wasn't in previous authorities, they probably weren't in a hurry to pick someone who would come into that chair, to that function, because they couldn't agree. We think differently today. We want a quality shot at the head of the NBS and we do it because we want to maintain stability, stability of business, we want continuity in work to be maintained, and that is why this attitude is very important to us. It means that the election of NBS officials is done before the term of office expires so that certain interruptions are not made there. Also, transparency is very important, because we believe that everything we do and everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is transparent and citizens can go to all the necessary public presentations. Then, we are talking about interbank fees and specific rules of business in payment transactions. This enables you to stimulate a higher level of digitization. The other day, when we were selecting the finance minister, we talked about the e-government of the city of Belgrade which significantly facilitates citizens to solve their problems, such as a united procedure in issuing building permits, enrolment in kindergartens, etc. All this is done digitized now through an Internet presentation, which significantly reduces the time it takes to solve a problem of its own. We're still in the 20th century. The laws that are before us are very fundamental, we believe that they are very good and are taken care of, most importantly, about security and the better position of the citizens of Serbia, which is our goal, for us as a coalition. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been responsible for its citizens since 2012, when Mrs Tabakovic led the NBS. We can remember certain numbers, what it looked like before and what it looked like during her term, which is why I would commend the results she had achieved. Here we speak only in fact language, so I would like to highlight certain numbers that have surprised me very much, both those numbers before 2012, and what has been achieved since 2012. The inflation found in 2012 was 12.9, you correct me if I was wrong, because there are really great differences in numbers, so it is amazing that we were able to achieve this, and in fact it is achieved by valuable and teamwork. So, in 2012, inflation was 12.9%, but in 2013, 2.2% and is held at 1.9% to 2% in the previous five years continuously and stable, which is very important when we talk about the economic environment of the Republic of Serbia. Then, since 2012, the amount of gold in the Treasury has increased from 4.72 to 19.65 tonnes, which is also a huge difference. The interest rate on dinar loans was reduced by 11% to 12%. All this is done exclusively for the benefit of Serbian citizens. What I would point out is the resilience of our banking system, because we were witnesses and the Greek crisis, we were witnesses of the borgsite. None of this affected Serbia's banking system, which is indeed a very significant result for a small country. I would also like to praise the open market for banks, for two new banks, MIRA Banc and Bank of China. This is also very important, as well as the introduction of certain electronic services, such as the electronic money institution and payments made available to citizens for 24 hours, and that the recipient, in the same second, can see the funds in his account. All this says that in 2012, we chose the right man in the right place, because all these results show that Serbia is moving in the right direction. The National Bank of Serbia is one of the most important institutions that can help at a certain point and affect the citizens' standards negatively, and here we can see that we are moving in a very good direction. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support these laws in the voting day, because we believe that the results are indeed commendable. We want to commend your work and hope that you will continue at the same pace in the future, but first of all, do not forget that teamwork comes first, because that is the only way we can create results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37761	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The word is Dr. Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37762	Thank you, Chairman. The distinguished governor with the associates, the distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will speak of these first three laws from this set that we have received for this session. My colleagues from the SDPS will discuss other bill proposals. The first draft law on the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, as explained, but should be repeated because of the public that the basic objectives of the adoption and improvement of the rights of users are, above all, the rights of users of financial services, and the additional protection of those users. Secondly, to specify certain practical issues when negotiating remotely. Third, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law. In particular, this law regulates the protection of users of financial services in remote contracts, while at the same time ensuring a higher level of protection of the rights and interests of those users. In order to protect users, it is also arranged for financial service providers to advertise and offer financial services to users via the Internet or using other modern means of communication. Given that contracting financial services at a distance can be seen as one way to improve, modernise and develop the financial market in the Republic of Serbia, editing this area is important for both users and financial service providers. When we look at the analysis of the effects of the law, it is expected that the proposed solutions will also have a positive impact on the users of financial services, as well as on financial service providers. Financial service users will feel a positive impact through the wide availability of financial services and a greater choice between existing financial service providers on the market so that they can choose the most favourable financial service that meets their needs. As regards the provider, financial service providers are given an additional incentive to advertise distance financial services in a more legally sound environment and thus conclude contracts with users when mutual rights and obligations are detailed and diversified. In particular, a provision that allows a contract to be concluded to a certain value in electronic form and without qualified electronic signature used by a client of a financial institution, given the still insufficient distribution of the use of this signature to natural persons, as Minister Djordjevic spoke of today. When it comes to the Financial Security Act, as regards the reason, the main objective of the adoption of the Financial Security Act is to establish a modern, clear, uniform and effective legal framework for the negotiation and implementation of the collateral for the implementation of the financial market participants' obligations. This contributes both to the development of the financial market and to the preservation and strengthening of the stability of the financial system. The general objectives of the law are multiple, as you have provided in the light of this law, which is to achieve and improve legal certainty, then reduce the financial market credit risk of participants, standardise financial framework contracts, increase the level of protection of NBS claims in carrying out monetary operations, increase the level of protection of the claims of the Republic of Serbia in public debt management operations on the financial market, such as contracting financial derivatives for foreign exchange risk. What is important, one of the objectives seems to me to be somehow important, and this is a higher level of legal certainty for foreign investors and creditors in dealing with domestic financial institutions, while at the same time better positioning these recidents in negotiations with foreign partners and access to favourable sources of funding. Otherwise, this law establishes a modern legal framework, as you have stated, for the effective implementation of financial market participants' obligations under the Financial Security Contract and in accordance with international standards and best market practice. What is important, the proposed solutions in this law will directly affect the business of participants in the financial market, and this will affect the prescribed categories of entities that can conclude financial collateral contracts, i.e. other financial contracts, such as banks, investment companies, insurance companies and other domestic and foreign financial institutions. The proposed solutions will also affect the NBS in carrying out monetary and foreign operations, as well as the Republic of Serbia in public debt management operations with regard to ensuring greater legal certainty in carrying out their contractual obligations on a number of basis. The adoption of this law meets international obligations and harmonises the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU rules. Finally, the Interbank Compensation Act and the specific rules of business in payment transactions on the basis of payment cards are expected to have a positive impact on the cost reduction of the proposed solutions to this law, in particular the acceptance of payment cards, which traders have towards banks. In fact, traders will have a more favourable position in negotiating with banks and paying a trade fee, as rules are introduced to increase transparency in the negotiation process. In addition, traders will no longer be able to accept all card products of the single card payment system, as it is prescribed that they will be able to choose, only accept those payment cards that involve lower costs. The main effect of the proposed solutions is that the limitation of interbank fees is expected to lead to lower trade fees, which is an opportunity to further reduce the costs of traders towards banks, which is very important. The application of the proposed provisions would lead to lower prices for end-users, as lower fees paid by traders reduce the overall operating costs, leaving room for lower prices for end-users, and the European Commission document also speaks in favour of the impact of the limitation of interbank fees. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this set of laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37763	Thank you, Dr. Jelenkovic. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37764	Dear Minister, Your Honor, the primary impression I'm wearing right now is to look at the right side and there's no one there. You, governor and minister, have left the Serbian Parliament without opposition, and Serbian citizens are certainly already doing this for us in the elections. On the one hand, today we had unmistakable criticism, primarily of the NBS Act, and on the other hand we had clear and precise, broad answers based on work, knowledge, experience. When this Assembly was elected a few days ago by the finance minister, we set up one of the pillars of fiscal policy. Just a few days after that pillar comes to the Serbian Parliament a dozen economic laws, let's say. All this clearly says that the team you were talking about, Alexander Vukic, at the head of that team, still works almost impeccably, as when the team was set up in 2014. Today in the Assembly, we are discussing a set of economic laws. Here are the people of the Ministry of Finance, the NBS and the Ministry of Business. All that we could hear today actually comes down to one single fact – there is no opposition, but there are no economic issues. In your time, you said it nicely, the Serbian Parliament looked different, so when we talked about economic issues, when you talked about economic issues, we were actually talking about the difficult challenges Serbia faces, about hyperinflation, about privatisation, about the lack of growth of social gross products. These changes that have followed in Serbia since 2014, which we call for us to spend as much as we have, or fiscal consolidation, have actually done one more thing -- they have thrown out of the Serbian Parliament a difficult economic topic. The opposition can't talk about economic issues today when there's almost no reason to talk. That's why we can hear the story of having a strong dinar, that international foreign banks, which are actually owned by the Serbian state in some way. They're registered in Serbia, we need to shut down. We need to build a home bank that will take a higher risk. You know, it's all zilotian economic ideas. If you heard them in any Parliament in Europe today, someone would say – what is this about? It's so many ideas beyond its time, beyond understanding of the economy, that the only fear in fact can exist that, God forbid, by any chance, such ideas come back to Serbia. Today we're actually discussing the five laws proposed by the NBS. They are right MPs as they say and as they have the feeling that we are much more often faced with laws that come from the fiscal sector, much less from the monetary sector, because somehow, in Serbia, we are used to monetary policy no longer being seen. From 2008 to 2012, when foreign currency grew at a rate of 33%, then we knew we had to go to exchange offices, keep our money, fight hard challenges. To be fair, since 1919, Serbia has been struggling with inflation. Milan Stojadinovic proposed a programme to save the Kingdom of Yugoslavia from inflation in 1923. During your term of office from 2012 to 2018, we have a foreign currency growth of 0.3%. You made monetary policy, I once told you on the Budget Committee about a year ago, boring. It is completely unrecognizable, not affecting the lives of Serbian citizens. What are you going to do for a better monetary policy, both for the economy and for the citizens without them noticing it? Of course, the National Bank does so as the theory says, using above all the reference interest rate, operations not on tails, but on the repo open market, using, of course, another mandatory reserve mechanism. It all works like other central banks everywhere in the world. When we talk about inflation, then we should say that inflation in the first period this year is 1.1%, i.e. base 0.8%. And, according to the vote, that's inflation in the EU, in principle, that's the level of inflation. Then I have no problem saying that there is a historic paradox, that this month such a historical paradox occurred, that the rate of inflation in the EU in April was 1.2%. Two days ago, data came that the EU inflation rate was 1.9%. When did it happen in Serbia's history that the inflation rate is less than inflation in the EU? Of course, the EU's base inflation rate is 0.7%, 1.1%, but in principle it's the inflation rate that Serbia has. When we discuss key macroeconomic parameters, then today we have been discussing growth of 0.4 GDP. In principle, we can always hear that it should always be bigger. You know, we remembered that they had GDP growth in 10 years 5%. When we have a 4.5 growth in a few months, then it can't be understood, and then they forget, and that growth, which they didn't actually have, was the result of the revenues from privatisation and debt. We have clean brand-economic parameters today. When you have a stable, or practically very small inflation of 1.1%, we'll see what it's going to be, when you have a decrease in unemployment and you have GDP growth. It was never in Serbia's history. And it should always be emphasized, because this time, time is different from when we learned that economic parameters, economic theory, economic practice is not respected. Yeah, we're doing everything the way we're supposed to, and that's the result. When we talk about monetary policy today, I have no problem saying that it is credit to the governor of the National Bank, Jorgenka Tabakovic, and to say that it is her personal merit, but also her personal merit because she has a team. Because she created a team, made a team, which made Serbia think monetary policy, of course and fiscal, aside. Of course monetary policy is just one part of this whole story. If you have a 0.4% surplus in the first months of this year, which seemed simply amazing when we entered into negotiations with the IMF in 2015. If you have a 3% reference interest rate, someone tells us it should be 2%, no, and not 2%, it can be -1%, it's simply pointless. We have inflation that's drawn to 3 one plus, minus. When you have an inflow of foreign investment that is supposed to be at two billion and 600, as never again, essentially, when you add all the countries of the Western Balkans, the level of foreign investment is higher, when you have MPLs at 9.2 and when you have a growth in credit activity to 7.5%, then all this says that the National Bank, you, as governor, is in an area that is entrusted to you, which concerns macroeconomic stability, that is, part of monetary stability, and you are almost doing your job perfectly. It's better than that it's over and it can't. You said it well - the challenges ahead are great. It's nothing to argue with. We are all aware that this time is extraordinary and that it will probably come to an end at some point, but what you are doing, your work, the results of the work, the strengthening of Serbia by all segments and fragments in your part of monetary policy, makes us much more prepared for the challenges that come on the side. When we talk about laws, I just don't know if after all your clarifications I should keep talking about them, but I'm just going to take this opportunity to say that these laws actually won't affect macroeconomic stability, that they have nothing to do with monetary stability and that they have nothing to do with fiscal functioning, that they are approximately neutral and serve, above all, that systems in the functioning of certain segments, both the banking-financial sector and the economy, function better and more clearly. When we talk about the National Bank Act, it should certainly be pointed out that this fundamental law is the consequence of the Foreign Exchange Act, which we passed on April 19th and when we transferred one of the agents in the Tax Administration to the National Bank. It's perfectly okay for these jobs to be where they're supposed to be, i.e. giving and granting and getting licenses for German jobs, because it's like that everywhere in the world. That's what the Central Bank does, not the IRS. Of course you got practically the entire function of foreign exchange control, both natural and legal persons and companies, and that's normal and that's how it should be. The consequence of this law is certainly the fact that you have to redecorate and fix it, starting with that banal that 60 people from the tax administration need to move to work at the National Bank. I find the second part much more interesting about the publication of the reference interest rate, i.e. other interest rates published by the National Bank. The reference interest rate is the interest corridor. The interest corridor serves to make practically any other interest based on this corridor, and it is no problem and there is no question that it should be completely transparent. Transparency is the essence of the functioning of the National Bank, and you say that every day when the National Bank Executive Board is in session, by 1200 hours, the data concerning the height of the reference interest rate will be published. Transparency in the functioning of the National Bank is essential. It's even more important to realize that we don't live in a period that we kind of do, it seems to me, to us who belong to a small center and to the right in the past 40 years. We can't in the state, at the National Bank, be responsible for the functioning of every single person. To return to the disputed loans in Switzerland. What are we going to do if the Eurobor starts to grow, and the loans in the euro are going to grow, are we going to suffer pressure from people who are currently in debt? It's completely pointless stuff. Business banks are part of the market, both individuals and banks are on the market. The role of the National Bank, i.e. the Central Bank of the Republic of Serbia, is to provide complete and clear information to all available and transparent, that each individual makes its own decision on the basis of which they will bear the business risk, both banks and individuals. That's how it's everywhere in the world, that's how it's supposed to be in Serbia. The draft financial security law only normalises, or defines the problems that have arisen in the sector. I'd go over it very quickly and get to the law that's causing the most attention, and it's about interbank compensation. Yes, rightly, 0.2% of interbank interest and 0.3% of compensation will be in the next period of time. And it was 1.2%, or in some extreme cases it was up to 2.5%. And it is a fact that we can't do the banking sector, all the challenges that are ahead of us and behind us, to solve it now and instantly. We cannot behave in our solutions in such a way that we do not respect the rules of the world market. We are proud and a country that is growing and developing, possibly a leader in the Balkans, is not likely, safe. But we have to play by the world's rules. The past is that, we can't, and we can never do that, that we don't respect the big companies that come on the side. When you talk about card traffic systems, these are institutions whose budgets are measured for dozens, if not hundreds of Serbian budgets. We must respect what the EU says and we must act in harmony to protect both the interests of our citizens and the interests of large companies that employ people here and the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. The proposals of the other laws proposed by the NBS certainly go towards a new tactical revolution that is happening here in front of us, and we all need to be aware of that. When we talk about a cash-free payment, then we need to know that certain European countries are announcing a cash-free payment, a total withdrawal of money in some period of time that is ahead of us in a few years. Serbia must catch up with all the new technologies and all the laws that you propose, all those changes that you have talked about today are there for Serbia to become a better and more modern country. Dear Minister, dear Governor, to be honest, take our subjects. When people who know their matter perfectly, and are mostly all of them, not most of them, but almost all the legislators who come from the SNS, then it's very easy for us SNS deputies, because we get so much information, because the public of Serbia gets so much information, because it's clear to everyone in Serbia today and to those who didn't believe in monetary policy and these laws, why SNS MPs support the government of the Republic of Serbia, support the work of the National Bank and support everyone, including your personal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-06-01-0.u37765	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are finishing the debate for today. We'll continue our work Monday at 10:00, so June 4th at 10:00 p.m.
