ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48034	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you, at the beginning of a united principle debate, the most important solutions containing the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, the draft law on free legal aid, the draft law on lobbying, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, the draft law amending the Law on the regulation of courts, the draft law amending the litigation procedure and the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, the reasons for its adoption are numerous. First of all, the existing Personal Data Protection Act has a number of shortcomings observed in its application. The main shortcomings in the applicable law are seen, among other things, in an inadequately regulated procedure, the exercise of the right to the protection of personal data and the inadequately arranged procedure for carrying out personality data from the Republic of Serbia. Also, shortcomings are expressed in the incomplete arrangement of liability in the event of a violation of the right of the person, as well as the case of failure to comply with the legal obligations. Data security is also insufficiently decorated, and there are no provisions on the obligation to analyse risks by legal persons in the case of individual treatments that can seriously jeopardise their rights. On the other hand, when it comes to the process of joining the Republic of Serbia, the harmonisation of national legislation with EU law is an international legal obligation of the Republic of Serbia. In this area, this specifically means the need to comply with Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personality data and the free movement of such data, i.e. the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as the 2016 Directive No 680, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personality data by competent bodies for the purpose of preventing investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the free movement of such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977. I must point out that the applicable Personal Data Protection Act was not in line with previous EU personal data protection rules, so compliance with EU rules is even greater. There is also a third important reason to pass this law. Its adoption is a necessary condition in order to start negotiations with EU authorities to strengthen judicial co-operation in criminal matters, Eurostat. The conclusion of this contract will certainly mean further improvement of judicial co-operation with this authority. The basic objective of the law is to ensure everyone's respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and especially their right to the protection of personal data. Therefore, the Data Protection Act should establish a clear legal framework in the area of protection of personal data in the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with the Constitution, the Law should regulate the processing of personal data, i.e. the protection of the rights and procedures of individuals with regard to the processing of data, the rights of data controllers, data processors and all data recipients, as well as jurisdiction, the position of an independent data protection authority. In addition, the adoption of this law will meet other objectives, which are a more detailed regulation of the right to the protection of personal data, the regulation of a number of different cases which are fully governed by the process of carrying out personal data from the Republic of Serbia, which significantly speeds up such a process, the regulation of liability in the case of a breach of the right of the data subject, as well as in the case of failure to comply with the legal obligations of the handlers, processors or their representatives, a more complete regulation of the security of personal data by prescribing a greater number of measures of protection of personal data, as well as a procedure in case of breach of security, the introduction of a risk analysis of the risk of pre-treatment, if the risk of high-level processing is required to seek prior opinion of the supervisory authority, the regulation of new business rules, certification, certification, the identification of a person to protect the personal data, as well as the code of conduct, which will clearly improve the prosecution of criminal data, the prosecution of criminality of criminality of criminality or criminality. These provisions, of course, represent one of the most significant legal papers, since for the first time specific provisions relating only to competent authorities are clearly laid down, thus ensuring the legality of their conduct and at the same time determining cases where restrictions on the general regime exist. Extending and detailing the competence and authority of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data as an independent and independent state body responsible for the supervision and enforcement of the Personal Data Protection Act and ultimately ensuring compliance with relevant EU documents, which is of great importance to the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which are provided for in negotiating chapters 23 and 24. The proposal for a law on the protection of personal data contains ten heads. It represents a detailed unique continent that addresses all the important issues in this area. I would also refer to the most important newspaper this law makes. Unlike the current legal solution, according to which consent can only be given in writing or verbally to the minutes, which has caused major problems in the application of the law, the concept of consent is now precisely defined and significantly extended. Namely, the consent of the data subject is defined as any voluntary, informed and unequivocal expression of the person’s will, which, by means of a statement or a clear confirmatory action, gives consent to the processing of personal data relating to him. This definition of consent will ensure that it is easier to give, and it is very important that when it is given, the person to whom the data are related should be fully informed of all relevant elements relating to the processing. As is said, a large number of provisions of this legislative proposal concern the processing of authorities responsible for preventing, investigating and detecting criminal offences, as well as the prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, including the protection and prevention of threats to public or national security. The regulation of these provisions is very important because on the one hand, it provides for further improvement of human rights achieved in this area. On the other hand, there is a need to limit some of these rights, given the security challenges that arise today. As a result, such restrictions must be properly regulated. It should be noted here that if the competent authorities do not process data for the purposes mentioned above, provisions relating to all other public authorities shall apply. For the first time, the draft law also provides for general principles, which are significant because they constitute a basic indication that should be applied and what should be observed in each processing of personality data. The existing rights of the data subject, in accordance with the applicable law, such as the right to notify of processing, the right to access and copy, as well as the right to access openly, are much more detailed. The paper is entitled to the portability of data which implies that the data subject has the right to receive his personal data, which he has previously provided to the controller, by default, used and electronically legible form, and to transfer these data to another controller, without interference from the controller processing his data. The draft law also provides for general obligations relating to the controller and processors. The obligation of the handlers to undertake appropriate technical, personnel and organisational measures to ensure that the processing is carried out in accordance with this law and in order to be able to present it. When taking these measures, it shall take into account the nature, scope, circumstances and purpose of processing, the likelihood of risk taking place, as well as the level of potential risk to the exercise of the rights and freedoms of the person. There is a obligation to review and update these measures as well. Other obligations include the keeping of prescribed processing records, as well as cooperation with the trustee. The legal paper also represents the identification of a person for the protection of personal data. It is prescribed that the controller and processor are obliged to include this person in all matters relating to the protection of personal data, to provide him with the necessary means to comply with these obligations, access to personal data and processing operations, its professional training, and to provide him with independence in the performance of his obligations. At the same time, this person is required to co-operate with the trustee and constitute a contact point between the handler and the trustee. In addition, the proposal for a law in a new way regulates the transmission of personality data to other countries and international organisations. Unlike the existing legal solutions, more opportunities are provided for the transfer of data to another country or international organisation, stressing that there are clearly prescribed conditions in each of the possible situations that must be met. The benefits of this legislative proposal will certainly be enjoyed by large economic operators, whose head office is in the European Union, who have representations in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. large business entities from the Republic of Serbia operating with the European Union or planning to open representation there, as legal regimes for the protection of personality data will now be mutually harmonised. One of the most significant newspapers relating to the data subject is related to the submission of legal means if his personal data are processed. Under the applicable law, the person had the right to appeal to the Commissioner if he felt that the controller did not process his data in accordance with the law, and if he was not satisfied with the decision of the Commissioner, he could initiate the administrative dispute. A whole range of different possibilities for protection of law are now foreseen, with more legal resources available. First of all, you can object to a data processing handler. In addition, a complaint can be filed with the trustee. The decision of the Commissioner, i.e. in the event that such a decision has not been taken within 60 days of the date of the complaint, may be initiated by an administrative dispute. In addition, the independence of other proceedings can also be achieved through direct judicial protection, and in the end it is explicitly prescribed that the person who has suffered material or immaterial damage due to a breach of the provisions of the law is entitled to the cash compensation of this damage from the controller that caused the damage. As I was saying, the bill of law detailed trustees' affairs as an independent supervisory body. The relevant provisions specify its independent status and are detailed in its jurisdiction. The trustee primarily performs inspection tasks, but also has the authority to take appropriate corrective measures, to ensure the application of the law, to carry out international co-operation. I'd also like to make a few notes about this legal proposal. The texts of the new relevant EU rules, analyses of the text of the applicable law, initiatives and recommendations to amend its provisions were used when drawing up the text of the bill. There were also solutions put forward by the Commissioner for Public Information and Protection of Personality Data in his model of law. A broad public debate has been conducted on this text and has been the subject of an evaluation by the European Commission and Eurostat. Their comments are also embedded in this text. The text was addressed to a large number of state authorities, whose objections were also an integral part of the text. In the end, I would point out that just passing this law is not the end of the activities in this area. First of all, there is a need to get to know the public with the legal provisions, to raise awareness of the importance of protecting personal data. In addition, by the start of the application of the law, it is necessary to adopt envisaged sub-legislative acts, to carry out appropriate training of persons performing tasks relating to the protection of personal data for the application of the law. It is also necessary to carry out appropriate organisational changes in public authorities and other entities in order to ensure the specialisation of persons, i.e. internal organisations for the protection of personal data, as well as to provide technical and other conditions for the application of data security provisions and risk assessment. All of this will certainly improve the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, ensure compliance with EU rules, lay down clear rules regarding the processing of personality data and enable effective international co-operation in this area. I would remind at the beginning that the adoption of the Bill on Free Legal Assistance provides for a number of strategic documents, such as the strategy for the development of the free legal assistance system in the Republic of Serbia, the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, as well as the Action Plan for Chapter 23. At the same time, the adoption of this law is also foreseen by the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows between 2014 and 2018. The draft law on free legal aid is only a first step towards achieving the objectives set out in these strategic documents, and above all by improving access to justice, improving access to court and increasing the confidence of citizens in the judiciary. Certainly, this step is very important with regard to harmonising the regulatory framework of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process, meeting the commitments set out in the Action Plan for the Negotiation Chapter 23, as well as the transitional criteria. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has since 2006 guaranteed the right to legal aid, the provision of legal aid, including free legal aid, has not been adequately regulated, nor has the system of legal assistance been fully regulated. The provisions on legal aid are contained in several laws that regulate only certain types of legal aid. This situation is not satisfactory, especially in the light of the need for free legal assistance in the Republic of Serbia, which is suggested by data on the structure and socio-economic situation of the population, but the trend in the need for judicial protection, etc. ‘vulnerable groups’. For these very reasons, the adoption of the Bill on Free Legal Assistance in the National Assembly is very important for citizens, since it contributes to improving access to justice for a large number of citizens of weaker property and members of vulnerable social groups. That bill was prepared after years of work and numerous analyses of the existing state of play in the area of providing free legal assistance, comparative analysis, as well as research into the socio-economic situation of the population in order to identify potential users of free legal aid, the necessary budgetary resources to be provided to ensure that more citizens are given access to justice. The ministry of justice formed a working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, lawyerry, the Association of Citizens, representatives of the law school, a team for social inclusion and poverty reduction, and representatives of EU delegations attended the working groups' meetings as observers. In order to get to know the general public with the solutions proposed in the draft law on free legal aid, round tables were organised in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, and the International Scientific Conference in December 2017. These events were attended by all participants interested in the adoption of this law. In the working text of the draft law on free legal aid, a comprehensive public debate was conducted in which all interested parties could declare the proposed solutions. The consultations with representatives of the European Commission have been carried out since 2015, including sending the working text of the law to the opinion, as well as the organisation of the TAEX mission. We will now present some of the basic solutions to the Bill on Free Legal Assistance. One of the most significant solutions for citizens is to determine the circle of users of free legal aid. In order to extend the scope of citizens who need free legal assistance, the bill defines three groups of potential users. The first group shall consist of persons eligible to be beneficiaries of the right to cash, social assistance or child benefit, in accordance with the relevant laws. The second group consists of persons who do not meet the conditions to be beneficiaries of the right to cash, social assistance or child support, but would meet those conditions for payment of legal assistance from their own income, in a specific legal matter. The first two groups of users are linked to the economic position of the person sought for free legal assistance. The draft law covers citizens who, based on the available data, are assessed to be in the most difficult financial situation, and as determined by the World Bank analysis and data of the Social Integration and Poverty Reduction Team, as well as citizens who would be equated with the first group by carrying out legal assistance costs, rewards for the work of lawyers and the costs of court proceedings. The establishment of an economic situation is not too static, it allows all relevant circumstances to be considered in a specific case. The third group consists of members of vulnerable, or socially sensitive groups, who automatically exercise the right to free legal assistance in accordance with specific laws, therefore, without determining their financial situation. For example, a child whose right, obligation or interest is based on the law decides in proceedings before a court or other state authority, a person exercising legal protection against domestic violence, a person seeking asylum in the Republic of Serbia, refugees, persons under subsidiary protection or internally displaced person, persons with disabilities, a person who achieves the protection of torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment or trafficking. The bill sets out forms of free legal assistance and free legal support available to citizens. General legal information, filling out forms and legal advice is available to all and not subject to authorisation. The analyses have shown that these forms represent almost 80% of citizens' needs for legal aid. I would particularly point out that the bill provides for the availability of these forms of free legal assistance and free legal support to all citizens. Free legal assistance provided by lawyers, the assembly of public records and the mediation in dispute resolution shall be subject to authorisation. The adoption and application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance will contribute to the greater efficiency of the judiciary in general. Given that, with the expertise of qualified providers, a reduction in the number of new court proceedings is expected, cases in which a solution is possible without the initiation of a court procedure and also contribute to a reduction in the costs of handling court proceedings, since it also provides for the possibility of intervening in the settlement of disputes at the disposal of users of free legal aid. One of the important newspapers is certainly a provision on free legal aid providers. I would particularly like to point out that this provision allows for full respect for the normative framework of the Republic of Serbia and does not affect the rules of litigation, criminal or administrative procedure. The bill provides for free legal assistance from both lawyers and legal aid services in local self-government units. These are the basic providers of the free legal aid mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, an important experience of the association of citizens who have been providing free legal assistance to vulnerable groups has been taken into account for years. In view of the regulatory framework of the Republic of Serbia, the service of all providers of free legal assistance has been specified. Associations may directly provide free legal assistance in the procedures for the exercise of the right to asylum and the protection of discrimination. In particular, I would like to point out that lawyers provide free legal assistance on behalf of the association only when the procedural laws provide that an attorney must be a lawyer. Then, free legal assistance at the association can be provided by a graduate lawyer, if the laws governing the appropriate procedure do not require that a representative be a lawyer. This provision allows associations dealing with the protection of human and minority rights and freedoms directly to provide free legal assistance in areas of legal protection where, for example, free legal assistance to victims of domestic violence, partner or sexual violence, protection of the rights of LGBT persons, Roma, children, persons with disabilities. At the same time, through the establishment of a round of legal support providers, the bill also achieves a strategic objective, to use all available resources to meet the needs of as many citizens as possible. In this way, the availability of free legal assistance provided by lawyers to a wide range of citizens who cannot bear the costs of legal aid is ensured. As I have already pointed out, there is at the same time the availability of free legal support and legal advice to all, which makes up about 80% of the total need for legal assistance, according to previous estimates. One of the most significant newspapers adopted by the bill is the establishment of a way to finance free legal aid and free legal support through the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, local self-government units, as well as through donations and project financing. From the budget of the Republic of Serbia, a unit of local self-government is compensated for providing free legal assistance, drawing up a public notary document and intervening in dispute settlement. Finally, it is important to note that the bill introduces quality control and responsibility for the safe and professional provision of free legal assistance, which will improve the quality of legal assistance and support provided to citizens. The register of free legal aid providers run by the Ministry of Justice, as a single electronic database, will also contribute to the availability of information to citizens. Transitional provisions of the bill introduce obligations for units of local self-government that have not yet done so, to form a service of free legal assistance, thus improving the availability of free legal assistance to smaller local self-government units throughout Serbia. It has been postponed by implementing provisions on free legal assistance in cross-border disputes until the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. The entry into force of the law is scheduled for October 2019, in order to implement the necessary technical and organisational preparations for its application by that date. The basic objective of the Lobby Law should be to establish a clear normative framework for the implementation of lobbying activities in the Republic of Serbia, thereby removing shortcomings in our legal system in the process of passing laws and other general acts. The legal arrangement of lobbying is to the greatest extent protected by public interest, as the public work of the National Assembly, the authorities of the State Administration, the AP and the units of local self-government in the regulation process is increasing the integrity and responsibility of public officials and other persons employed in these bodies participating in the process of passing laws and other general acts. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on Lobbying, which will clearly regulate relations between all actors in the regulation process and public access to all information on lobbying in public authorities, becomes an imperative recognised in strategic documents, such as the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018 and the Action Plan for its implementation. The obligation to pass the Lobby Law stems from the international agreements that our country has confirmed, as well as recommendations from a group of Council of Europe countries to fight corruption, GRECO in the fourth round of evaluation. Some countries regulate the area of lobbying by law, while in another area it is outside the legal framework. However, even in countries where informal rules are represented, the issue of more formal regulation of lobbying professions is becoming increasingly relevant. The regulation of lobbying is aimed at preventing the possible inappropriate impact of lobbyists on public policy formation, as well as raising citizens' confidence in the decision-making process, i.e. laying down rules regarding the implementation of lobbying. The bill sets out three groups of issues that are important for lobbying. First, the concept of lobbying is defined, a circle of faces that can perform lobbying activity, lobbying users, a circle of faces that can be lobbyed, as well as the basic principles of this process. When defining the concept of lobbying for the purpose of removing possible concerns, activities that are not considered lobbying have also been defined, which relate to actions which are not intended to influence the adoption of laws, other regulations and general acts, for example, the publication of certain information in the media, the presentation of professional attitudes, civic initiatives, official actions. With regard to determining the circle of persons who can do lobbying, I would stress that all persons interested in performing this profession are covered, while the lobbying user may be a natural or legal person whose interest is lobbying. The bill also covers a wide range of lobbyed persons, both at local and national level. The elected, appointed, appointed, employed or otherwise employed persons in the Authority, as well as the person participating in the preparation and adoption of the regulations, whose choice, appointment or appointment of the Authority gives consent. The draft law is based on the principle of protection of public interest and the principle of integrity which includes legality, transparency and responsibility in work, as well as ethics in order to preserve the personal and reputation of a legal person performing lobbying and the reputation of lobbying users. Secondly, conditions for lobbying are prescribed. When setting conditions for lobbying, account has been taken of the necessary level of professional qualifications, but also of the ethical indicators of the person qualified to perform this extremely responsible profession. Given that this is a new profession, the bill provides, among other things, that the lobbyist, in addition to the high professional equipment, has specific knowledge of lobbying that can be acquired through special training. In order to enable efficient and effective implementation of the lobbying control work, when establishing an institutional framework for their implementation, we have been identified as the most rational approach, i.e. for existing institutional solutions in relation to the performance of related tasks, and these tasks will be carried out by the Anti-Corruption Agency. The bill promotes the transparency of lobbying, which is reflected in the establishment of a public register of lobbyists, which enables the existence of transparent and publicly available identity information, the interest of all those who influence or wish to influence the authorities in the process of applying, preparing and adopting laws and other regulations and general acts. Based on the information contained in the public register, the general public is given insight into the situation of lobbying on decision-makers. Third, rules are laid down regarding the implementation of lobbying. In that sense, I would firstly point out that the prescribed mandatory content of the lobbying contract, the rules on its termination, as well as the termination of the lobbying process. Also described are the jobs performed by lobbyists and unregistered lobbyists and precisely established principles of their operation and obligations according to the lobbying user. There's also the obligation of a lobbying face. Given the nature of its position, it is prescribed that a lobbying person be required to make a report on any contact with a lobbyist or not registered lobbyist, whose content is also governed by this bill in order to allow the standardisation of lobbying data. It is also linked to the obligation of the Authority to keep records of lobbying contacts for officials selected, appointed, appointed, employed or otherwise employed in that body. The purpose of the record, to allow public access to a sufficient number of information on lobbying activities related to public policies, to make decisions in order to assess the nature and range of lobbying and to convince the public that this is in line with public interest. It is of particular importance to settle the issue of continued reporting on lobbying. When standardising this obligation, lobbyists are led to account that the content of the report is such that it provides sufficient scope of lobbying information without causing unnecessary data collection and excessive administration. A report on the work of lobbyists, i.e. legal persons doing lobbying, shall be submitted to the Anti-Corruption Agency as the body keeping registers in which they are registered. Also, when determining the time frame for reporting, it is calculated that reporting activities allow monitoring of the situation, but also that they do not interfere with the effectiveness of lobbyist or competent authority. The law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures adopted in 2014 has been applied since September of the same year. The system of alternative sanctions and measures in EU countries has been very developed, so that the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the Council of Europe and the EU accession process require the development of a system of non-institutional measures and sanctions, its wider application, as well as the effectiveness of the enforcement of these sanctions. Since this law has been applied for four years, practice has shown the need to specify certain provisions in order to fully demonstrate all the advantages of this type of sanctioning of the perpetrators. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures improves the legal framework in order to better implement alternative sanctions and measures and improve efficiency in the work of the trust service. The proposed legal solutions shall achieve the equalisation of the rights of persons who are set out in a measure prohibiting leaving the apartment as an alternative measure of detention with the right to detain persons in respect of the right to stay outside the room in which the measure is carried out. Changes in the area of professional supervision of the work of the trust service have been prescribed that the supervision is carried out by authorised officials of the Administration for the exercise of criminal sanctions, contributing to the more professional and efficient work of the trust service. All of these amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures are one of the preconditions for improving the system of alternative sanctions and measures in accordance with the Council of Europe's probation rules. On 1 January 2019, the Law on the Regulation of Courts provides that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice in the affairs of the judicial administration, in a broader sense, is to move to the High Council of the Judiciary. It concerns competences relating to the setting of the criteria for determining the number of judicial staff, all tasks of the judicial administration in a narrow sense for which the Ministry of Justice is in charge today, the adoption and supervision of the application of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the proposal, the implementation of budgetary resources and the supervision of the budget spending for the work of the courts. Since amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are under way in the area of justice, it will be necessary to bring the laws in the area of justice into line with them, including the Law on the Regulation of Courts. For these reasons, it is proposed to postpone, transfer jurisdiction from the justice ministry to the High Council of the judiciary for another year. The draft law amending the Law amending the litigation procedure amends the provisions of Article 204 of that Act, with the provision being made that the person who obtained the case from the prosecutor or the law under which the case may be brought to trial instead of the prosecutor on the basis of the written consent which the prosecutor provides to the court. So, unlike a valid legal solution, no longer requires consent from the defendant in the case of another person instead of a prosecutor, who has obtained a case or a law on whom the case is being filed. The proposal to propose such a legal solution is that the Strategy to resolve problematic loans, as a particular problem for the sale of problematic loans, is a prominent situation in the sale of a problematic loan by the bank, if a litigation procedure is under way under the bank's initiative. In that case, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, a person buying a problematic loan could not enter into a lawsuit instead of a bank without the consent of the defendant. Such a legal solution is an obstacle to the development of the market for problematic loans, and the Action Plan for implementing that strategy is currently envisioned to amend the Law on a litigation procedure proposed. The law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts shall regulate the way in which the public notebook confirms a copy of the document to be submitted to the public register in paper form. However, this law does not regulate the certification of a digitized document. The e-document law, electronic identification, trust services in e-business, in addition, regulates the digitisation of a device that is not in electronic form, as well as the verification of a digitised document confirming the identity of a digitised document with an original document. The content of the provisions governing a copy of the digitised document referred to in Article 11 of that Law shall be adopted in a reduced form in the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in Article 26, harmonising the legal order and contributing to legal certainty, as all copies and verifications made by the public notary are found in the same legal text. So this addition of the law introduces another way of copying the document, digitising the document, as well as certifying such digitalized documents. These are, in short, the most important solutions that contain these legal proposals. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that, following the debate in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will adopt the Bill on the Protection of Personality Data, the Proposal for a Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Proposal for a Law on Lobbying, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Non-Conductory Sanctions and Measures, the Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48035	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48036	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the support of all the other state authorities in charge of the areas that we are talking about today worked intensively in the previous period to develop the normative solutions that are today ahead of you, which should improve the conditions for the preservation of security in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, we have some brand-new draft laws that are new to our country's legal system, which regulate very important matter from the point of view of the security of Serbian citizens, the preservation of its vital functions, as well as raising capacity to react in actions to protect and save people and property. So, we have four laws in the area of emergency sector that will be about fire protection, emergency response, voluntary firefighting, so we will talk about the laws in more detail later and six laws that are in one way other than the laws relating to the stamping and marking of weapons, to a greater extent, amending these laws where some of the shortcomings that have been applied in application or those laws agree with other legal acts that we have a more effective application of these laws. Although we witnessed a number of fundamental disasters that were caused both by natural and human factors, we felt that the observed situation on the ground required the continued implementation of action to improve the capacity of the Republic of Serbia and to react to protection and rescue, whether it was a practice that we saw in our country, whether we saw good practice carried out by other countries in our region or elsewhere in the world that proved to be effective in protecting the population. Now I'm going to move on to each of the laws we've prepared for today. First, I'm going to talk about the Emergency Risk Reduction and Management Act, because this is a law that upgrades the existing system defined by the Emergency Law. The bill removes what has been done in practice and we find it insufficiently effective and some solutions have been simplified and introduced to make it easier to apply. Insufficient awareness of the importance of preventive activities and just not taking preventive action by system entities is one of the key shortcomings that has been demonstrated in the previous period. Knowledge and understanding of different risks is essential for identifying their causes and for the planning and response process in the event of a disaster. The assessment of the risk of disaster and the plan of protection and rescue, as well as the basic documents to date, has produced an extremely small number of units of local self-government and companies, which is why we want to help new legal solutions help system entities overcome obstacles to existing capacities and develop measures to reduce the risk of disasters. So, all of what we had the opportunity to see about the importance of establishing a disaster risk reduction system is perhaps best seen in the May 2014 flood case in proportions not recorded in the last 120 years. The flood has endangered lives, health, property for more than 1.6 million people, in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia. The key feature of this law is to put prevention in the first place and according to all data available to the UN and other relevant international organisations that are closely monitoring investment in prevention, it shows that the money invested in protection in prevention in reducing the consequences of disasters and negative occurrences in emergency situations can even go in relation to 1:8 in terms of returning that money. So one invested dinar in protection and prevention can double-protect us in terms of potential disasters and disasters. Because of all of this, we have carefully developed standards that regulate the planning documents in the area of reducing the risk of disasters. Also improving the process of co-operation and dialogue between different institutes at national level, establishing a national platform to reduce the risk of disasters, and also stressing international co-operation, both in the area of prevention and humanitarian aid and providing or receiving international assistance in order to respond jointly to the consequences of elementary and other disasters. I want to point out one more thing. Citizens often do not recognize their role when talking about emergency situations and the role that each of us has in this situation. Very often, parts of the system behave inertly, expecting that someone else will. We wanted this lack of timely response of citizens and certain institutions that do not see themselves as part of the system of protection, to be pointed out in this sense and to prescribe the obligation of citizens to participate in the protection and rescue, at the invitation of the competent staff, but, of course, on the basis of experience in the rescue of citizens in floods, the obligation to act on orders to evacuate is also foreseen. Unfortunately, we have had situations that once human lives were threatened and that it took much more significant involvement of police, people in the emergency sector and other state authorities, just refusing people and accepting that kind of responsibility to leave the place of residence when their lives could have been threatened by floods, fires or any other emergency situation. Of course, the important news is also the fact that we have extended this obligation to local self-government to the city's municipalities of Belgrade, which has not been the case so far because as a local self-government, only the city of Belgrade has been treated, and often this has led to slow reactions, misunderstandings and various other shortcomings in the system. That is why we have now handed this over to units that are municipal in the city of Belgrade, so they are not local self-government, but they have delegated powers, so they have decisions of local self-government and are significant from the point of view of rescue. Also, we have given the possibility in the event of an untimely reaction of local headquarters to emergency situations in local self-government, we have given the possibility that the Republic Emergency Staff will disband these headquarters and set up emergency emergency headquarters at the site of those, in order to enable the operation in the event that the local headquarters does not act, act prematurely or make decisions that are not in the best interest of saving the lives of the population. So we think it's a good mechanism to react to the state in cases where in certain local self-government, the lives of citizens are at risk, and the competent authorities are not responding adequately. It's better than waiting for some heavy harassing to happen, and then taking other measures from the jurisdiction of the state. As far as the Crisis Infrastructure Act is concerned, this is a matter that is closely related to the Bill's proposal to reduce the risk of disasters and is, in fact, one of the brand new laws in our legal system. The notion of critical infrastructure is not unknown in one set of laws that we have already proposed to the National Assembly, but in some parts, in some laws critical infrastructure is mentioned through another term, whether as a system, objects and networks, parts of the system, etc. which are of such importance to the functioning of society that their destruction, damage or termination of operation would have serious consequences for the health and safety of citizens, their property, or the functioning of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the above, it is recognised that this concept of identification of system, network and facilities marked as critical infrastructure is done in a comprehensive and uniform way with the aim of reducing the risk of disturbances of critical infrastructure elements that can affect the life of the population. We have worked on this bill with the Faculty of Security, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, the Association of Corporate Security Managers and other entities, along with all state bodies and I think we have come to a good analysis, a parallel analysis of how this area is regulated not only in our immediate environment, but also in the EU, and thus to define in fact a concept that will regulate the concept and mandatory sectors in which critical infrastructure is determined, as well as the possibility of adding certain critical infrastructures to the proposal from the competent ministries that can be set in another sector. In any event, it is very important that the units of local self-government and state bodies and the AP and other legal entities operating the relevant systems are also given the opportunity to take active participation and to suggest to the sovereignly everyone in their area criteria and to define what is considered critical infrastructure so as to have one broader coverage. As far as the draft law on a voluntary firefighter is concerned, this is a whole new law in the legal system. The aim of the law was to form voluntary fire companies, primarily operational, whose members are willing to participate in fire-fighting, but also in emergency situations when it is necessary to assist the professional units of the MUP, i.e. the Emergency Sector, which contributes to the efficiency of the professional composition. This, of course, includes Serbia in the order of those countries that are beginning to build or continue some of the traditions that they have in part of their territory related to volunteering, but a whole new thing has been introduced here. So, the most significant newspaper is not only the formation of a voluntary fire company that has a lot on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but is essentially dysfunctional, but it provides here the possibility of forming a fire department that will literally have this one voluntary fire department as regards voluntary fire companies, which requires, of course, one forced fire vehicle which is one of the conditions, where you allow these voluntary fire companies not to form as some kind of organisations serving everything and everything, but rather than shutting down fires, but essentially have the need to have a unit that has a vehicle, which has sufficient conditions and that it can be involved in helping the population in the territory in which it is formed, as well as in the professional composition of the Emergency Sector. We also provided for this bill to remain on the system concept of funding voluntary fire companies through public-interest programmes, obtaining property through membership fees, subsidies, donations, gifts and other means prescribed by the laws governing associations, through the implementation of economic and other actions that also generate profits from the Republic of Serbia's budget, the AP units and local self-government through funds to promote programmes or missing parts of funding programmes that implement associations. What the Ministry of Interior will do, and certainly we plan to do in the next, we have started this process, this year we have received new 15 fire trucks in our units, by the end of August of next year, to say, more gradually since January and beyond, there will be around 45 more new fire trucks and by mid-2020 a total of about 70 or 80 new fire trucks. So, one large number of fire trucks that will replace vehicles that are no longer efficient enough to put out fires, but are still operational and usable for voluntary fire companies. These old vehicles will be executed as donations to voluntary fire companies that will be established, and they will, in fact, be able to form units on the basis of the existence of front-end vehicles and will be able to help citizens, and will, in fact, relieve the use of the Emergency Sector when it is not necessary, of course, or be helpful in the event of some major fires. As far as the law on amendments and additions to the Police Act is concerned, this is primarily about a new concept. So, what we did together with the National Assembly and the law adopted here in 2016 envisioned a new concept of career advancement through the concept of career advancement and in systematic settlement of salary alignment issues in the MUP, above all pay for police officers. And this new system will start to apply very quickly. What we have done in fact, this new system of wages needs to solve some kind of internal injustice and the establishment of a system, where the same level of pay will be set up to do the same work in different parts of the ministry, above all for police officers. We had situations where, of course, we had to do several previous actions that provided job descriptions, which gave basic competences, where we found what a job is in each segment of the ministry, what its specific description, so that it wouldn't just happen by a different name in the systematization of jobs comes to this kind of inequality. Well, whether it's an administrative technician or an assistant in the processing of materials or it's already a third name, and they're getting 20%, 30% different salaries on identical jobs in the entire ministry, which has achieved a kind of inequality and, let me say, injustices for these employees. We've come to where we've been most able to do this and I want to thank the colleagues of the Ministry who worked day and night, first and foremost the Human Resources Sector and the Finance Sector, along with the Police Directorate, that they've come to the point that we can start soon with the application of the system. What I'm trying to say is that because of the police and other employees at the Ministry, we've come to a model that doesn't mean that anyone in the Ministry is getting paid. So no one's salary will be cut by a single dollar. What we're going to do is, this is that the actual salary increase and this year we're going to be, in 2019, planning an increase in salary for a member of the MUP, for those criteria, for those whose salary is valued as lower in a given job compared to the one they are now receiving, their salary will not be reduced, but in fact their rate of increase in the coming years will be lower than those whose salary is valued as higher, and they are currently receiving a lower salary. So they're going to have a smaller percentage of salary increases until they get paid even. One moment when these wages are even, their progress will be equal. So no one will be less paid, but some wages will grow slower, because today they receive an incomparably higher salary than people who do the same job in similar jobs. As far as the bill on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act is concerned, there are several amendments. We have certainly estimated that the effects of the law that has been passed and which we in this National Assembly have also changed that it is good and has affected the reduction of the number of people killed on the roads in Serbia. What we are changing now is, first of all, because we have adopted a Regulation on vehicle technical checks, which began to apply in July 2018, has provided a very high standard in vehicle technical inspections, because we do not want those vehicles to be examined only pro-forms, without essentially doing a technical examination and then when a car accident occurs, everyone asks – and why is this review not done properly? Today there are video surveillance, there are different procedures, mechanisms of control and it is very difficult to mock the application of this law and regulations. As far as we're concerned, we had in the 2010 law a norm that predicted that for the obligation of a six-month-old technical examination, for vehicles older than 15 years, this would mean that these vehicles had to have a technical examination twice a year. That measure never came to life, but we didn't want to leave no doubt with the citizens so that by applying any rule that could happen. We suggest that, precisely because we thought it was an unfairly harsh measure, we suggest to the National Assembly that it be abolished and that all vehicles are literally referred to a technical examination once a year, to say, as it has been actually applied to this moment. As for other newspapers, we also have a question of first technical examination for newly manufactured vehicles. This bill postpones the obligation of the first regular technical review for newly manufactured vehicles, for the first time registered in the Republic of Serbia, no later than two years from the date of first registration in our country. Therefore, we allow owners, completely new vehicles, not to have the first mandatory technical review immediately, but is obliged by the manufacturer and the importer of the vehicle to deliver the necessary technical documentation, because it is a vehicle that is completely new, which has come out of the factory, to deliver everything that needs to be done by the manufacturer and the importer, as well as sanctions for both the manufacturer and the importer if they act contrary to the prescribed obligations, and in fact do not expose these people to a new cost. On the other hand, they are obliged to obtain documentation guaranteeing that all technical characteristics of the vehicle are good enough to pass the technical examination. In the end, legal solutions related to the tightening of the criminal policy relating to the violation of the speed out of the settlement, because by keeping detailed records of the violations committed on the roads to Serbia, we found that this misdemeanour of the speed outside the settlement seemed more and more frequent, and we suggested that the threshold of tolerance be lowered with the leaving of the same level of punishment. So the fines remain the same, but we resorted to a reduction in the possibility, to say, that the actual possibility of increasing speed is less. So somewhere 20 kilometers over the limit, it's only 10 now. We gave stricter standards that had to be respected, where we felt that criminal measures, therefore, that financial penalties were completely adequate, and there was no need for them to increase. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security and the Law on Detective Action, they agree, among other things, with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and Inspection, but are also improving existing legal solutions. There are some observed shortcomings that we have talked about in this National Assembly. And, of course, we increase the efficiency of the application of this law. Also, this law will, that is, contribute significantly to the clear definition of the rights, obligations and duties of the entities in this sector of security, streamline certain procedures and introduce a newspaper where this has been demonstrated as a whole, as well as to regulate the work of police officers themselves to implement these laws. For the first time, the terms are introduced – security checks and security concerns for the needs of these laws, leaving the subsidiary application of some other laws in which this matter has been regulated so far, thus increasing legal certainty and predictability for all entities falling under these two laws. When we talk about private security, we also have two new licenses, a self-protective exercise license and a license to carry out transport and transfer operations and valuable shipments in self-defense, making a clear distinction between legal persons or entrepreneurs who have an organized internal security service in relation to entities that can provide services to others on the market. Also, there has been a demarcation of licenses for performing physical - technical protection, with or without firearms, which is an essential fact when determining the conditions for issuing these licences. A new thing and a new license to perform the work of the directorial service, because we wanted those who perform order at school events and certain sports events to do so only when they are directors and when this way can ensure peaceful meeting maintenance. As for natural persons, new conditions for issuing licences, for both private security officers and detectives, a registered residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is. In addition, private security officers who do business with weapons will have to prove that they are medically capable of holding and carrying weapons. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws will significantly improve and monitor the implementation of their provisions, the roles of certain bodies and bodies, which will, in future, be adequately applied by the MUP. As regards the Law on Detective Action, in addition to the changes and additions already mentioned, we also have the data that detectives are authorized to collect, has been extended with three new powers and will be allowed to collect data on candidates for employment only with their written consent, on criminal acts prosecuted by private lawsuits and on the perpetrators of these crimes, as well as on violations of labour obligations or labour disciplines. It is important to introduce a greater order in this part of the security sector and to make police work more efficient is a clear regulation of the conditions under which legal persons, entrepreneurs, or detectives of licenses can also be taken away. The law on the detective agency, i.e. the activity in this part, has remained inconclusive in the current law and not sufficiently clearly regulated, which we consider to be beyond the changes and additions. We are also predicting the discharge of some administrative procedures. Obligations for legal persons and entrepreneurs to report to the police on the use of coercion funds are lifted. It will now only be done in the case of a request from the competent national authority, so if there is a violation of those rights or a violation of the law. One newspaper is the abandonment of the concept of mandatory traineeship for detectives to be able to carry the legislation, because it was observed that, in fact, the largest number of detectives, or those who worked in these agencies had previously worked in services such as police, military or other services that had fully met conditions, and we felt that the traineeship was an unfair difficulty in their ability to work and did not prove to be comprehensive during the previous period, and we are predicting its abolition. As for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events, we wanted security at these events to rise further to a higher level and any possible consequences of any negative behaviour to a minimum. We, like the MUP, have followed the state of public order in sports events, continuously and in fact not only the way legal acts are applied, i.e. legal regulations governing the field of sports events in order to bring the application and adequate response into line, but also preventive action and all that can improve the work of police and redistributive services that have legal competences in maintaining public order and peace and safeguarding security. Because of the indetermination of this law so far, the perpetrators of criminal acts and criminal acts have effectively passed with inadequate penalties because their sentences have been imposed under other laws that do not contribute to the fight against hooliganism. As far as the police are concerned, I can tell you that to hold a set of high-risk derbys requires between 2,500 and 3,000 police officers when you consider everything, all services engaged in the entire period before, during and after the match, so you can understand how much it costs to the state, how much it's the use of police officers. We believe that the general prevention that would be achieved by the criminal provisions of this law could reduce that number of police officers involved and that one by preventive work and by warning anyone who could be perpetrators of criminal offences might also affect the reduction of the number of acts. The proposal was made parallel to the amendments and additions of the Private Security Act, so it was recognised that the close link between the application of new provisions in the field of organised sports events and of course jurisdiction, the responsibilities of directorial services that were often at our football games and other sports events were, minors, I can say, the protocol type, not the essential type. So the director's office must do its job and must both the club and the organizer to assume their share of responsibility in organising any event. Of course, the MUP is here to protect the law and public order and peace. As far as the proposal for a law on interrogation, stamping and marking of weapons, devices and ammunition is concerned. This law, which remained at the levels of the old laws that were passed in 1995, that is, in 2004 and what is good for the citizens of Serbia, will contribute to the greater security of citizens when they manipulate the storage and use of weapons, appliances and ammunition. As far as one of the conditions for the adoption of this law is concerned, one of the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Convention on mutual recognition of marks for hand, firearms in 1969 and the return of the Republic of Serbia to a permanent International Commission for the Study of Manual, Firearms C.I.P. Because, in fact, although the Republic of Serbia was formally a legal follower of the SRJ in 1992, it ceased to be a member of the C.I.P. What did she actually do? It has made all the weapons that are even from our domestic producers and the weapons that are imported into our country branded and controlled in foreign institutes and that domestic producers and importers pay money to someone outside our country to carry out that kind of control. Our marks from the Arms Research Office, the Kragujevac ammunition, have not been recognised since 1992. Serbia failed in 2002 and 2006 to become a member of the C.I.P. It has failed because of the lack of the legal framework and other things and, in fact, since then, this is the first attempt and by passing these laws and by making certain changes we return to Serbia C.I.P. And to become, if we had the possibility of our state entities, to become those who can brand both weapons and other parts of weapons and minutes, that would naturally save our country's weapons and ammunition producers. Also, a very important fact for us is that this would provide the perspective of the Kragujevac Arms and Ammunition Research Office, which was founded in 1969 and which has the capacity to carry out interrogations and control of weapons and ammunition, but today, because of everything I have stated in fact, is unusable. In accordance with this law, the Bureau would only change its organisational form and become an agency for testing, stamping and marking weapons, appliances and ammunition, whose work would be supervised by the MUP, and we, in fact, with these existing capacities, would be able to perform services not only to arms and ammunition manufacturers in our country, but to everyone else in the region and directly in our vicinity. So, everyone else, of course, who doesn't have their own national institution, and they have weapons or ammunition production, which could be stamped. So, we're creating a financial benefit for our country, reducing costs and, let's say, financial flows, withdrawing foreign exchanges from our country, paying for foreign institutions that have so far been branding and doing one good thing for safer use of weapons and ammunition, so for the safety of all citizens who own or use it. This is in short what the Ministry has prepared in the draft laws that lie ahead of you, and I, of course, once again use the opportunity to thank the MPs who participated in making concrete and useful proposals. Of course, and to those who are and through the amendments that, when we come to the debate in particular, will influence that these bill proposals are better, and of course I call on you to give support to make our legal framework better and, of course, the security of citizens of Serbia greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48037	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, Mr Volkan Bozgir, with the wife and members of the delegation currently following part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. We're going back to work. The word has a representative of Propositioner Sandra Kulezic, an election member of the State Council of Prosecutors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48038	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, is facing the National Assembly today two decisions by the State Council of Prosecutors, or two proposals for the election of deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to office. The proposal of 10 October 2018 contains 37 candidates elected to the 21st General Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia. This decision by the State's Council of Prosecutors on the proposal proposed the following candidates: for the Deputy Public Prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Gavric Aleksandar, prosecutor's assistant in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pančev, Grujic Maja, prosecutor's assistant at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Culibrk Vanja, user of the initial training of the Justice Academy. As deputy public prosecutor at the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Stojiljkovic Ivana, prosecutor's assistant at the Second General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Đuric Katarina, prosecutor's assistant at the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, Milekic Ivana, prosecutor's assistant at the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade and Petric Nikola, Chief Inspector BIA. Stankovic Marija, the prosecutor's assistant assistant at the primary public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac, was proposed. Red Bubnjević Slavica, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica, Simic Aleksandra, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Mionica, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, Arsic Nevena, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plana, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office, Divijak Tijana, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Jaksic Dejan, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, Mastilović Dragan, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, Ristovski Zlata, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad and Skakavac Sanja, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy. As deputy public prosecutor at the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, Miskovic Marko, police inspector of the Department of Economic Crime at the Sremska Mitrovica police administration, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova, Molnar Aleksandra, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Ruma, Markovic Marko, a prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Strikovic Gordana, the prosecutor's assistant at the Kragujevac Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, Avramović Sasa, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec and Karic Mikica, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, were proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, Vojilović Veselinović Bojana, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom and Vostinić Mirko, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka, they were proposed; Vukosavljevic Goran, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Kragujevac, Jovic Sanja, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka and Milutinovic Dobrivoje, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. For the deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, Boskovic Vladimir, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic and Tokmanović Nikolić Snezana, prosecutor's assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, was proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Pozarevec, Stjepovic Marko, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, was proposed. As Deputy Prosecutor of the General Public Prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Jovoic Milica, Prosecutor's Assistant Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Dr Miladinović Papović Jelena, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis and Cvetkovic Marija, Prosecutor's Assistant at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Mlaednović Ivan, Prosecutor's Assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han, was proposed. For the deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Leskovac, Milosevic Sonja, prosecutor's assistant at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac and Todorovic Snezana, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, were proposed. As deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, Debeljak Marina, prosecutor's assistant at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, was proposed. Of the 37 candidates proposed for the first election for the deputy public prosecutor, in accordance with the provisions of the Law, the Rules of Procedure of the State Council of Prosecutors and the Rules of Procedure concerning the organisation of examinations for the verification of the professionality and training of candidates for the first time, the State Council proposed candidates as an assessment of professionality and competence, whether they were a test or an assessment from the Judiciary Academy, to receive an evaluation of five, except for one candidate, or a candidate who was proposed for the election at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec, who, in the course of the examination of expertise and training, achieved an assessment of four, because the remaining candidates for the deputy public prosecutor in that prosecutor's office who had a score of five, elected in the second prosecutor's office. Since you have extensive work résumés on all of these candidates in the light of this decision, I would not be more detailed on each individual biography. I'm just going to briefly tell you something that is characteristic of this contest, that is, this proposal and all the candidates that are proposed here. First of all, to point out that a very large number of excellent candidates still appear in competitions for the deputy public prosecutor. That, on the one hand, is good, because it is a sign that we still have good staff in the prosecutions, courts, as well as other bodies, such as the police and the BIA, who have also applied for the seats of the deputy public prosecutor, who will be some future of the Public Prosecutor's Office and where this job will remain. In the event, five candidates, five top-rated candidates, competed on average in Serbia. When it comes to Belgrade, 12 candidates competed in one place with the highest marks of expertise and training. It is clear that the State Council has had a serious and difficult task this time to select among so many good candidates who, at this time, believe that in the best and most effective way, will carry out this responsible duty, or the role of deputy public prosecutor. Since we are defined by law and other sublegal acts, namely that we are determined to take the expertise and training of candidates, which is expressed by the assessment in the exam, or at the Judicial Academy, except for this assessment, which was primarily managed by the State's major prosecutors in this election, when it comes to the choice between candidates with the maximum score, it was particularly important to make sure that the candidates proposed should be encouraged from all represented groups of candidates, starting with the belief that the diversity of professional experiences in the area of criminal law contributes to the improvement and increase of the quality of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thus, 32 prosecutor's assistants, three users of the initial training of the Judicial Academy and two candidates outside the judiciary were proposed in this competition of 37 candidates. Also, when deciding on a proposal for candidates with maximum grades, the State has paid greater attention to the years of working experience of these candidates in the area of criminal law, as well as the type of work these candidates have done. It was also of equal importance to criteria concerning additional education of candidates following the completion of basic studies, as well as other data from the biography that pointed to broad professional definitions and interests of these candidates both from the area of criminal law and from other areas of law, as well as their willingness to perform a public prosecutorial function. What I would add is that, and all the proposed candidates are in their collectives where they work, from which we received opinions, assessed by the assessment – especially in the last few years back. Of course, what I would also like to point out is that all the proposed candidates on the Justice Committee, during the decision-making process, have been unanimously accepted as candidates for the election of deputy public prosecutor. When it comes to the second decision of 22.10.2018, i.e. the proposal to elect a deputy public prosecutor for war crimes, Vasilija Seratlic, Judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, was proposed. In this case, it is also a candidate who, since he does not come from the public prosecutor's order, has passed a test of expertise and training, and is also a candidate who has spent many years as a judicial associate in the High Court in Belgrade and in the Department of Organized Crime and War Crimes. As a result, the State's major prosecutors considered that the candidate's special/specific training, i.e. skills that enable the effective application of specific knowledge in the field of war crimes, which we consider to have been acquired in his long-standing work as an associate in this prosecution, was thus defined by the State's major prosecutors to propose first choice among the candidates right now for the public prosecutor's deputy for war crimes. In the end, I invite you all to vote in the voting day for all proposed candidates of the State Council of Prosecutors, because we believe that these candidates will justify our and your trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48039	Thank you. The word is Branislav Goravica, an election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48040	Dear People's MPs, respected members of the working presidency, are ahead of us with two proposals for a decision on the election of judges to be elected for the first time. I will not read the candidates' names in detail, nor their biographies, the results on the exam they passed and the like, because all the reasons why these candidates are proposed for the election are detailed and explained in the proposal for decisions that have been delivered to you. I'm just going to make two suggestions. The first proposal is from the session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary since 01 October 2018, and the second is from the session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary since 19 October 2018. Both proposals contain names and biographies of 24 candidates. The proposal is only one part of a major ad filled out in the main courts of the Republic of Serbia. It is an ad published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 14/18 of February 23, 2018 for numerous courts in the Republic of Serbia, but this time we are only talking about candidates for basic courts. According to this basic court competition, 1034 candidates have applied and 719 candidates have joined the exams. Of course, there are also candidates who have been released from the obligation to pass exams, especially those who have completed the Judicial Academy. Of course, when proposing candidates, the High Council of the Judiciary was overruled by the provisions of the law on judges and relevant regulations which provide for the conditions for selection and any additional criteria which are identical and which are given in the explanation of the State Council of Prosecutors. So, in a similar way, he worked the High Council of the Judiciary. All proposals are supported by the Committee on Justice of the Republic of Serbia, so I also call on you to submit proposals for the start of this number of judges after the discussion on candidates, and you to support these proposals and to choose for the start of this number of judges, and we will, in the following period, provide you with proposals for the judges that are not now covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48041	Thank you. The word is by MP Petar Petrovic as chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Ask for the word electronic, colleague Petrovic. Until they provide a temporary card for Mr Petrovic, there is a word from the People's MP, Verice Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48042	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, just before the representatives, long ago, spoke here almost an hour and a half ago presenting proposals that we should discuss and vote on. I won't talk about the quality of the debate, but we certainly don't mind, and we don't mind, on the contrary, you're here to talk to the MPs, but the problem is that MPs don't even have a part of that time to communicate with you. And what happens with the agendas from the session, at the session, the situation is getting worse and worse and definitely the ruling majority behaves like that under the system "we can do it" and they are not interested at all in the Rules of Procedure or parliamentary democracy or parliamentary experience, they are not interested in anything. They predicted today for this session, 25 points of the agenda, united them into one point. There are indeed points that have nothing to do with each other, there are truths and some that may even be united under the Rules of Procedure, but 25 certainly not even those that could possibly be done by the Rules of Procedure, should not have been done precisely because of the importance of the bill discussed at this session. Here, the ministers also talked about how important it is, what kind of newspaper they introduce to us, etc., but unfortunately, it is hard to say anything that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will first hear what is being discussed in the National Assembly. The system of unifying the agenda points is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but it basically means choking the functioning of parliamentary opposition parties in Parliament and more, I think, there is no one to whom it is not completely clear. And then it happens, this morning on one show, I heard a national MP from the government, and I won't mention his name, saying that the opposition, the truth, was thinking about this part of the opposition that spends a lot of time in adopting the agenda, that the opposition is making chaos and its proposals on the agenda, and if that's really absolutely their right, whatever they think of them and these proposals, which are mostly more formal to make an impression in public than they really mean anything. He says, an MP who votes for all government proposals, that he very often in what he said, the papazians don't even know what the bill says, he doesn't even know what the amendments are. He says - I don't know what I'm voting for in the end, but I have to pick up later so I can list these bills, and in the meantime, the laws. So, something like that I don't know if it's registered. What's interesting about this session today? For example, one of the draft laws is the law amending the Law on Court Order and Mrs Kuburovic, you wrote in your explanation that it is only one member, the deadline is shifted and you said that the conditions for meeting this deadline, that is, this member you change will be fulfilled when the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are adopted. It's just amazing. It happened once, about 2003, I think when Gašo Knezevic, as Minister of Education at the National Assembly, said he was passing a law based on some law that has not yet been passed and which he knows will be proposed as a law. Now, this looks like it. How do you know these amendments will be adopted? How do you know that they will be adopted in this very text that the Venice Commission has given you? How do you know that there will even be conditions to discuss these constitutional amendments and vote? Or, for example, the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events, Mr. Stefanovic, is harmonized among other things with the Law on Private Security, and the Law on Private Security is today on the agenda at the same time with this law? What does this mean? This means, in fact, that the Assembly is the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to you and that unfortunately, the majority of the assembly has accepted this role, which is a scandal over scandals. So, even if the Private Security Act were passed, you can't pass, align the Law on the Prevention of Violence with the provisions of that law because it won't be published in the "Official Messenger" at the time of adoption here. You are in a great hurry to present to us here these, mostly translated and badly translated and fundamentally poor bill proposals and I hope that we will still be able to say something about each of them, or at least the most important ones, but Minister Stefanovic, you have also spoken of amendments to the Law on Police. It's much less important, believe me, if a cop is going to be called a cop or a police officer. We don't think they were supposed to be special paying classes for the police. Of course, we think that police should provide conditions and much better than those they now have, that they need to be provided with higher salaries, because these people are really doing an extremely important job. Here, and today it's been announced that you had, that you had some significant arrest, which was about, money laundering, I think. Then you often have, inform the public that you are arresting people or groups of people for drug distribution and all that is right and all that is in your jurisdiction, but Minister Stefanovic, we expect you today to answer some specific questions. You swear both you and the president of the state and the Prime Minister and all the ministers, swear to fight corruption, zero tolerance to corruption and crime, to something that doesn't exist anywhere on the globe, but you don't react to what the MPs say in parliament. You are not responding to the affairs that are actually rocking the government of the Republic of Serbia. As long as you don't answer those questions, and I'll tell you in the meantime, and what are those questions, where I expect an answer from the minister of police, you have a problem with the government. You know, if there's any doubt about an affair of one, two, three ministers and if you don't respond to it, then that can only mean that what exists in public is true and then how can you sit in such a government? And if you don't have information and you don't work, then you can't sit in that government again. Serious problems exist, above all, corruptingly, in the functioning of individual ministries, individual ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48043	My colleague, it has nothing to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48044	... It's very important, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48045	No, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48046	Mr. Arsic, I'm talking about the police, I'm talking about the Minister of Police, I'm talking about amending the Police Act, I'm talking about police officers we're setting up today, or we're going to establish payment classes, and I want to see what they do for those paying classes. I don't understand what your problem is. If you think you forbid us to talk, you've put 25 points anyway that we can only talk 40 and how many minutes we from the SRS, then say -- radicals, no stories, but you can't, you know that you can't, and I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48047	And you know you have to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48048	Very, very, very, here, I speak in relation to Article 1. Proposal for amendments to the Police Act. Mr Stefanovic, do you have information for the National Assembly and regarding yesterday's open affair of Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic? It is very simple for us to ask – have you determined what this is about? Is this affair real? Is that true? Have you taken certain measures? If so, will you be arrested, have you arrested, possibly? Do you have any evidence of what was brought here regarding Rasim Ljajic and his involvement in the drug cartel? So you have to answer that question. You have to answer the question, say, what happened, and file criminal charges, and let us know whether or not you filed them. You have to answer the question, we are still in 2011, when "Tesla Banka" was formed, which was supposed to finance Serb returnees in Republika Srpska's territory, they then called Croatia. So, we said then what was behind it, we said then that only the state money would be thrown into that bank in Zagreb and that money would be nice to steal from the owners of that time. The question for you, Minister, is -- is something being done within your ministry, to see what happens to six million euros? Martina Dalic, a former minister in the Croatian government, has announced that the sixm euros, that they stole Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic. And we remember that at that time in the bank, Tesla, funds from the Republic Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia and the Vojvodin AP Development Fund were invested, on equal honor. Well, then some tycoons in Croatia, etc., who said they believed Pajtic and Tadic. We have opened up some more affairs during this previous period and, indeed, you must, and it concerns individual members of the government, and we are waiting for answers, Minister Stefanovic. How much money was spent on this state-of-the-art equipment at the Clinical Center, specifically the Clinical and Hospital Center in Nis?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48049	My colleague Radeta, I've been really tolerated, here we go, 12, 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48050	Thirteen minutes, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48051	Ask the Minister written questions, you have the right to do so, and now I ask you to finally start talking about the laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48052	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for letting me ask the minister in writing. I want the public to hear if it's the Ministry, are these cops, who we're setting up payroll classes, we've suggested that they get even more money, that they be paid more, but we want to know what happened on the set-up tender, which was installed by Zlatibor Loncar? So we're not just asking how much money is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48053	You, as a MP, know that something has been set up in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48054	No, I'm asking the minister. We have knowledge that it is, and I'm asking the minister, since we asked that here three, four, five months ago, did this police do anything? Do they deserve these wages if they haven't done anything on this subject? If they did, the public must know what they did. The public must know that this is the Moravski corridor run by Zorana Mihajlovic instead of 500,000 how much is it with Azerbaijan and China, with their builders, why do we pay 800,000 euros to the American Bechtel?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48055	You mean millions?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48056	Millions. Here, you see that you know what I'm talking about. As we haven't received an answer as to how did Minister Sarcevic spend 1.6m euros on electronic journals? How did the company Tesla, with whom he cooperated in private, get the job, and many, or were other bidders who would do it for three times less money? Serious subjects, Mr. Arsic, serious topics, and we need to get answers. I've only got, here's one minister, so I'll talk a little bit more about the police, because this is all about the police. So we have a question -- what about 143m euros that Vanja Udovic has transferred to a phantom company, and this is about funds for the Olympic University? Why do we want to get answers to all these questions? If these five ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister are the sixth, Rasim Ljajic, if they really did what they were known to be, but here you say how you know, we ask that the minister tell us himself. He had time, he should have known he was coming to the National Assembly. I hope he heard all this stuff that we were saying in the meantime. If you can't answer today, Mr. Stefanovic, we'll have patience, tomorrow they say it's not working, so on Friday, when it comes to informing us about all this. Because if this is true, then what kind of government are you, my people? Then you're the government where you have four corrupt ministers and one corrupt vice president of the government. Then where is your oath? What does it mean, in fact, then your oath to fight corruption and crime? I said already, it's nice that you arrest all those who have sinned and who are wrong about the law, do it more and more intensively and we Serbian radicals support the police. We insist that you create even better conditions, even more adequate working conditions. Don't save, you have a surplus, you say. However, we haven't seen a final account report here in 18 years all once, so we don't trust you, you know, until we see how you spent your budget. It can only be seen through the final account. We don't trust you. But since you say you have a surplus, that you have money that you don't know about where you're going to spend, pay nicely how God commands both the police and the military, and education and health workers and the state administration and employees of local self-government. Why should these people who are directly users of the budget or indirect budget users always be on some margin because someone doesn't have the courage to tell the citizens of Serbia – yes, we need the police and the police should have a big salary? We need doctors here in Serbia, not Germany, and they should have a big salary. What's the problem? Inflation low, money in the budget as much as you want. What are you saving, what are you gonna do, hold them in the straw? You're not good hosts if you have so much money, and this many people are employed under very difficult conditions. Not to mention social cases, not to mention employees who only work for the minimumer, not to say Mrs. Kuburovic, I'll probably do it the next day. For example, in the Law on Free Legal Assistance, you provided free legal assistance only for social cases. Free legal aid in Serbia should be granted to all employees who receive only a minimum wage per month, all pensioners whose pension is below the republican pension average. People, don't just copy from the EU. It's easy for them, their social cases have, they get a month's worth, they don't get to work, more than three people get here and earn a month's wages. You can't just copy. We live in Serbia, harmonize the law's proposals with the real situation in the state of Serbia. Indeed, work, listen to a little of the Messengers of the people. What you do, in agreement with the congregation majority, is 25 points in one item of the agenda, and you expect us not to be able to tell you everything is going a little bit harder, it's a little bit of time, but we're still doing it, and I hope you'll also take some time to answer the questions. I'm finishing up, Mr. Arsic. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't talk to us casually, if you don't have the information right now, we'll be waiting for you on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48057	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48058	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When representatives of the promoters, governments in this case, come to the National Assembly, of course, we have nothing more than assumptions, i.e. bonafides, goodwill, good faith that laws will be passed. The government eventually sent to the National Assembly in order for the laws to be adopted, in what form, of course, the National Assembly will determine, or first whether they will be adopted or not, but whether they will be amended by amendments to the MPs and on which we as members of the Government have no influence, nor can we influence whether they will be on the agenda, when they will be on the agenda and when and whether they will be adopted. As for that, we have proposed these laws, and we have proposed that, of course, if and if adopted, certain legal standards are in line with another, that we do not have to come to the National Assembly again with the technical alignment of the second law with the one that the National Assembly has already adopted. As for the Ministry of the Interior, our goal is, of course, and we work intensively to increase the status, standards, living conditions and the position of police officers and all others who work in the Ministry of the Interior and Fire Department, because they are very often forgotten, and today we are talking about important laws in this area, firefighters who are one of the important parts of our country's protection system, but also those people who do not work in uniform and belong to human resources, finance, the internal control sector, the IT sector, for international co-operation, therefore, to people who contribute to the work of the MUP to be good. We've been increasing the salaries of police officers for the third year in a row. So we're increasing them because we want cops to have good wages. Those in Serbia have... Of course we can always say we want better. I want them to have the highest salary in the whole country. As Minister of the Interior, I wish these people the best of luck. My job is that I want more and more for them and I work harder. Compared to their once-in-a-lifetime fleet, today their fleet is incomparably better. That's what they need to be asked, not to say it, but to those people who use those patrol cars every day. We keep doing it, we didn't stop. As we get new fire trucks, as we get new equipment, protective equipment, weapons, everything the police should have and not only did in the past, but we will do intensively not only in the coming year, but in this year they will have new vehicles and, let's say, new equipment in the coming year. We'll be working on repairing buildings that have been in bad shape since the '50s and '60s. We'll build a couple of new police stations, but I'll wait until we do, and then I'll come to the National Assembly to boast, to see that we really did what we promised. When it's done, believe me, we're done. As for the other issues that Mrs. Radeta has raised here, firstly, the MUP, in order to fully clarify it, Mrs. Radeta knows it well, but there are people, citizens who don't know it, who act on the prosecution's demands. Since October 2013, a prosecutor's investigation has been in place, which implies that all the information collected, facts, notifications, an indication of possible violations of the law, is being formulated by the prosecution in a request for the collection of the necessary information, supplied to the Ministry of the Interior, acting under these requirements, gathering information and delivering it to the competent prosecution. It is the prosecutor who is authorized to assess on his own whether he will charge anyone, therefore, whether the indictment will be filed, for which he or she will dismiss the indictment. Of course, that doesn't mean the prosecutor can't do it on his own. The D.A. doesn't have to use the police. He can call on himself, invite any suspect, citizen in any capacity, collect the necessary information and decide on the basis of the necessary information just as in the previous case. So, there was a lot of talk, I don't know, we had a case of prosecutors saying they couldn't do something, the police didn't answer them. Excuse me, call yourself. Great, I'll question why the police didn't do it, and in the meantime you call a suspect or a citizen and collect the information yourself, you can do it, no one defends you, but everything that's hard to let someone else do, we don't want to get dirty hands, let everyone do their job, get paid for it. As far as the police are concerned, the police are doing a hard job, a responsible job in this country, and they should be getting good pay. Of course, I can't say that they're ideal, because the police share the fate of their people and it can't happen that a cop has a higher salary than a doctor, because it simply wouldn't be normal, but he should have a big salary and he should have good working conditions. As far as these affairs are concerned, which you've brought out, for some of the M.O.P. affairs with the D.A.'s office, they're running checks. So we can't talk about the details of these checks because they're, let's say, the information that's available to the D.A. When a competent prosecutor assesses that they can be shared with the public, whether they are shown as incorrect and rejected or there are elements to be prosecuted before the court, the court ultimately decides whether or not they are guilty, we will then be able to inform the public. As for Tesla Bank, I don't know how to tell you now, by Friday I'll get the information, some checks have been made regarding allegations that the state was damaged by the amount being mentioned. As for some persons, we have also arrested some persons, related to the University Sports Union, suspected of taking, let me say, the damage that has been done to the Republic of Serbia at a multimillion-dollar level. As for Mr. Ljajic, I must say that the MAP does not have information that Mr. Ljajic is part or organizes some organised criminal group. I have to make a personal belief that I really couldn't believe it, but we're leaving, as I would say, for all other cases, I'm leaving space until Friday to give you a more precise answer. So, some things are under way, some checks are being carried out, and we'll have more detailed information to deliver to you by then, what I can tell you, of course, and what's available to me. For everything else, the D.A.'s office will file charges or drop those cases and say there are no elements of the crime that are being prosecuted by official duty, and we'll be able to define that a little bit more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48059	The word has Minister Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48060	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad you mentioned the Law on Free Legal Assistance, but I must start by saying that you are making incorrect claims that the law is intended only for those persons who are beneficiaries of social assistance. If you had looked a little more closely, you would have seen that it is explicitly said that even the persons, regardless of their social status, if the engagement of lawyers would be compromised, have the right to free legal aid, and besides, regardless of their economic status, there is a list of 13 points that still exercise the right to free legal assistance under this law. From children to children for every procedure when they need to exercise their rights to those who are victims of domestic violence, torture, inhumane treatment, then persons who are asylum seekers, refugees, so it is not true that it is only intended for those who are users of social legal aid. When it comes to the law on free legal aid, I must say that I am extremely proud that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown a serious intention to finally pass this law, given that 17 years have been tried or tried to show that they want to pass a law on free legal aid, previous ministers, since 2001 when the first working group was formed. Some members of the task force went to study training in the South African Republic to see how it works there, but they never showed any real intention. There was probably no intention, as the law requires large funds to be allocated to the Republic of Serbia's budget. If you look at the analysis of this bill, you can see that it is predicted that at an annual level close to 1.5 billion dinars in the budget will have to be allocated to ensure that citizens have the right to free legal aid. This could have happened before, I'm just going to tell you that in 2012, when the SNS came to power, there were about seven billion dinars that hadn't been paid years ago. Big expenses for lawyers' fees, over two billion dinars that haven't been paid in years in time and reasonable time, expenses not paid for the artists, expenses for interpreters, not to mention other obligations. After that, we were obliged to pay compensation for damages to elected judges and prosecutors. All this shows that the state was obviously facing bankruptcy at the time and was unable to seriously consider the adoption of a law on free legal aid, which I once again point out, requires large funds both in the Republic of Serbia's budget and in the budget of local self-government because it will be paid half the fee, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government to hire a lawyer. I believe you could have met the law even though there was a united debate on a large number of laws. All the laws that the Ministry of Justice has proposed today have been in the National Assembly for several months. The public debate lasted a long period of time and no law was passed overnight. All I'm going to say is that most of the laws with proposals came out at the end of last year and the public debates were and how long they lasted, giving everyone the opportunity to participate, including the MPs. We have an example that during the public debate the MPs also attended, made their remarks. It's also one way to participate and improve the text of the law. As far as the Courts Regulation Act is concerned, it is true that this law does not appear before you for the first time, given that two years ago the application and delay of the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice to the VSS is delayed. It is not just constitutional changes, and I must also tell you that there has been an initiative to assess the constitutionality of these provisions that have been in front of the Constitutional Court for several years. We think it would also be a great shame to make such a provision, and perhaps the Constitutional Court makes a decision and says that such provisions are unconstitutional. It is not only the Ministry of Justice to which the postponement of this application was initiated, given that the VCC also referred the initiative because all provisions relating both to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and to the VSS should be reviewed, considering that such provisions as are currently prescribed do not correspond to reality and do not meet the needs of both the VSS and the Justice Ministry. The High Council of the judiciary also gave a positive opinion on such a bill. There is also a representative of the VSS and can confirm this, believing that there are no conditions for the transfer of competence at this time, there are no circumstances for the VSS to assume in full capacity the competence it needs. Certainly, I am not a prophet nor can I predict that the Constitution will be adopted, especially in the form of how the Ministry of Justice prepared the proposal for the text, but I certainly believe that there will soon be an initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to discuss whether you will at all accept the government's initiative to enter into the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, precisely in the work relating to the judicial authority, part of the public prosecutor's office, because I believe that we will all agree that these provisions should be amended. Whether it will be the way the Ministry of Justice has suggested, we will see during the debate. We have fulfilled our obligation, prepared the text in accordance with the opinion of the Venice Commission, and certainly you MPs will be the ones who will give the final word, the final court and arrange what the proposal should look like. Of course, if you accept a discussion of the final text of the Constitutional Amendments before that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48061	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48062	I am quite pleased with what I heard from both the minister and the other minister because they confirmed with their answers that I was right about everything I said. It is not a question, Mrs Kuburovic, whether the MPs have had time to read these laws, as you can see, we have read them very much and analyzed them, but the problem is that there must be time for citizens to hear what is done here. You say: The Messengers of the people were able to participate in a public debate. This is where the MPs take part. I was right about this court-ordering law. When it comes to the law on free legal aid, you didn't say anything else I didn't say. You've put the possibility of free legal aid to migrants, truth and certain vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, a large number of these people, I don't mean migrants, are also beneficiaries of social assistance, but I sincerely hope, based on your response that you will accept our amendment for free legal aid for all pensioners who have a pension below the average in the republic and for all those who work for the minimum. Mr Stefanovic, you say – for some practical reasons here you have suggested that the law be harmonised with the law that has not yet been passed, so that you do not come to the National Assembly at all times. You must come here whenever the MPs call you and that explanation also confirms what I said in this previous address. Yeah, firemen, all police employees, etc. They should have bigger salaries and better conditions, they should actually be paid by everyone who's financed from the budget. Another sentence to Mr. Stefanovic. In part, you gave an answer regarding these affairs, I hope on Friday, as you promised, we will have a more complete answer and take a closer look at what you have for Rasim Ljajic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48063	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48064	As you know, I'm always here when the National Assembly requires my presence. I'm one of the ministers who always comes to all the boards and I'm really trying to answer all the questions and I'm gonna keep doing it. As someone who was part of this home, extremely respectful. I think that kind of dialogue is always good. I love what I have with you and when we have a dialogue, which we always have a lot of good and concrete suggestions that I think really contribute to. And with other colleagues that I'm talking to, sometimes we disagree, sometimes we have bile discussions, but sometimes it really does fix, and we've fixed a lot of laws. I am glad that many MPs in this house, even when they belong to opposition political parties, voted in favour of the laws we propose, not because they are part of the majority, but because these laws really do something good for the Republic of Serbia. So I think we can move on in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48065	The word has the People's MP Petar Petrovic, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48066	Dear ministers, respected co-workers in the ministries, respected representatives of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, Mr Vice President, I will speak on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, but in the course of that time, I will take the opportunity to say as chairman of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and local self-government that at a session held a few days ago, all the laws that came from the Justice Ministry have been unanimously supported, as well as proposals for the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and proposals for the election of deputy public prosecutors, who are first elected to this post. Therefore, there were no objections and the proposals made by this committee by the MPs of the Republic of Serbia to accept these draft laws in principle, as well as to accept proposals from the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors for electing judges, i.e. Deputy Public Prosecutors. Since there are many amendments and amendments to the law here, as well as new laws, I will focus my presentation on several legislations, but at the beginning I will immediately say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all bill proposals in the voting day, as well as proposals for the election of judges who are first elected and the election of prosecutors, deputy primary prosecutors who are first elected. There are two reasons why both the ministry came before this National Assembly with proposals for these amendments and additions to the proposed laws, as well as proposals for new legal solutions. The first reason, when it comes to amending and supplementing the laws that are before us today, is that in the application of these laws, therefore, life has seen that there are certain irregularities, certain misunderstandings, that the tendency to improve some legal solutions that are already in force, so that people are simply better able to comply with these laws, both those who apply them and those to whom they apply. So, the first law I'm going to say a few words about is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and misbehaving at sports events. Unique Serbia supports the MUP's efforts to bring order to sports events as much as possible, especially those that are more significant, which have a much greater number of visitors than others and to simply try, although I think the MUP, in itself, cannot solve the problem, as can the Ministry of Justice, through certain legal solutions, i.e. courts, prosecutors in the application of these legal solutions. I think that society as a society must take more account and take more action, try to root out this inappropriate behavior, to calm down these fanish passions of cheerleading groups, which, when they get to the stadium, everything else is in their way than watching either football or basketball or handball of some other game. Today, unfortunately, we have a new interest in Serbia, which is the interest of the fan leader. I'd like to know where that school ends, to get the kids to finish school and get the title of cheerleader leader, because I see that many media are writing or reporting about such people who consider themselves a fan leader. We have a case that the M.O.P. has to do at some sports events to separate the cheerleading groups that cheer for the same club. It's only in Serbia. If we love and cheer for the same club and we're going to encourage those players of that football, basketball or other event, and we need SUP to hire one extra force of militia and police to separate those cheerleading groups, and they're here to cheer for the same club. I'm sorry, I've never seen it happen in Europe, and in Serbia it is. Unfortunately, I think there should be a slightly greater social action to be and welcome, we from the Unique Serbia, the ministry's efforts through these changes of the law to sharpen, both criminal measures and everything else, so that this misbehavior is reduced to the least possible measure, that is, if it can be eradicated. Although I mean, we don't have to be very optimistic, that in such a short period of time in the future we're going to eradicate. Unfortunately, in many ways, the misbehaving of certain clubs, sports organisations, their statements in the media, and so I say that these statements disintegrate any fanic passion among these fan groups, and therefore there are very unwanted consequences that sometimes end tragically, by losing young lives in or at the sport event itself. Another law, which I will say a few words about in front of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, to praise the ministry for recognising the problem that has arisen when the Road Traffic Safety Act comes into force, is about these famous ones, so to speak, mandatory technical examinations for vehicles older than 15 years, because unfortunately we still have enough on our roadways of a vehicle that is 15, 20 and more years old. And we burdened our citizens' budgets by simply forcing them to conduct technical checks twice a year with this legal solution. It's a good thing it's been lifted, what will be abolished when these amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act are passed on the roads. What I also welcome in front of the JS parliamentary group, both as a driver and as a man who is constantly in traffic, is that you recognize the problem of pedestrians and pedestrian crossings, or that it will now be a little easier, to say so, that members of the traffic police treat drivers who, I say conditionally, do not miss on foot crossings. It's already explained here, that I'm not explaining now, who wants to read the law can read, when the driver is obliged to miss the pedestrians, and when I say so, he commits violations and brings himself to be sanctioned. With these other laws in the field of the MUP, my co-workers from the JS will speak, from the JS parliamentary group, and I will now speak for a few minutes about the laws that came from the Justice Department. I see, or I stress that even here, in addition to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has recognized the problems that have arisen in the application of these laws, whose amendment and supplementation is now required, it is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48067	Comrade Petrovic, you have been given the floor as an authorised representative of the promoter, not as authorized in front of the parliamentary group or head of the parliamentary group. (Petar Petrovic: I received word as a promoter. It is like a proposer, so you didn't propose laws. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48068	So, in addition to recognising the problem in applying certain legal solutions that are now in place, the Ministry of Justice has come up with an amendment and addition of certain laws in order to simply improve the proposed applicable texts of the law, the proposal for new laws, which is a commitment from the national strategy for judicial reform, as well as an action plan for Chapters 23 and 24, as well as a commitment to the "GRECO" group, etc. So first, let's start with the Law of Prosecution. There is a change in one, or a few members, where, in fact, it allows participants in the case to solve their problem in a different, more quality way, because it is now possible for prosecutors, without the consent of the defendants, to give their well-being, that is, the matter, to someone, while so far it has been the obligation of the defendants. When it comes to supplementing the law on the enforcement of extra-legal sanctions and measures, it is good to introduce so-called. First conversation. This applies to those punished persons who support their sentences in house arrest. So there are other things where it's increased, to say, the obligation and discipline of those people who support the punishment in their apartments or houses, that they have to strictly comply with the rules, or to respect what they have, the electronic device on them, not to destroy it, because there are certain sanctions. What's very interesting, it's a brand-new law on free and legal aid. There have already been some comments here about this, but I think the ministry is in the right way, after a discussion that lasted several months, came with a bill that is before us today, which will come, I guarantee on behalf of the JS, on a broad basis to support citizens who are not now in a position to allocate funds, especially citizens who do not have enough resources, and who have the need and obligation to seek their rights, namely to seek protection of their rights from competent courts or some state institutions. So, exactly and precisely, it is indicated who has the right to free legal aid, then who can provide free legal assistance, that the ministry will control those persons who are doing free legal aid, so that this colourfulness that has been so far will be brought to the attention of one legal framework, where people who need free legal assistance will know who to turn to in order to get this free legal aid that the ministry will finance through certain lawyers who also have to be registered and registered in the Justice Ministry in order to be able to provide free legal assistance, as well as through local self-government, i.e. the legal services of local self-government. It is also given the right and certain government organisations to provide legal assistance under certain conditions. We, as a single Serbia parliamentary group, will support the law in the day of voting. And, in the end, I'd like to say a few sentences about the lobbying law, which is also a new law in our right. It is regulated here in one legal way to protect the public interest, that it is determined who can be lobbyist, legal and physical person who must be registered to pass a certain examination in front of the examination committee of the Judicial Academy, to be introduced into a list of lobbyists who can do so and to have contracts that they conclude with those who provide lobbying services certified and forwarded to the competent institutions. All in all, in this way, we are getting new legal solutions in these two areas which I am sure will improve the legal life and legal certainty of citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Serbia, which means another step towards Serbia's faster entry into the EU by equating legislation with EU countries' legislation. This means a better life, as I said, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, once again, all praises for the Ministry of Justice and for the Ministry of Interior for the proposed legal solutions. I repeat again, in the Single Serbia MPs' day of voting will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48069	Thank you. Do the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Mrs Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48070	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of Ministers with Associates, I will, as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians – first of all, talk about a topic which is extremely important for the Vojvodina Hungarians and then I will talk about certain draft laws mainly as part of the action plans for negotiating Chapter 23 24, i.e. from European integration. The first law I thought I was talking about was the draft law on voluntary fire. In fact, within the Vojvodjansko-Hungarian community, this is an extremely important topic. Some voluntary fire companies have a 150-year tradition, more decade-old, very long-term. And, as we've heard, the fact is that actually this topic wasn't regulated by one law at all. So it was very reasonable, there was no single clear framework on the status of voluntary fire companies, or associations, their position, the protection and rescue system, the conditions that should actually be met for these jobs, and we will agree that they are extremely significant and that this is very human activity. So far, the most important issue is the position of these societies is regulated by the Law on Associations, and it is good that after this society will actually be able to form, to establish at least three founders, natural or legal persons, and in fact the property of a legal person is obtained by enrolling in the Register of Associations. However, what is now a newspaper, in addition to these basic things regulated by the Law on Associations, a voluntary fire company will be required to provide evidence that it has formed, equipment and to maintain at least one voluntary fire department. The belief, in fact, of the MUP, that it meets the conditions regarding the possession of a fire department and the number of members. We have consulted those who are in this topic, to whom this is significant. They actually praised, not to be complicated now, they actually praised that this bill puts emphasis on a voluntary fire department and that this is good and that this is proposed. Of course, from this bill of law, we don't actually see these conditions, so it's up to you, by law, that the minister is the one who prescribes the terms and actually has three months, or you're 90 days from the law's entry into force. It's just that we're calling for these sublegal acts to make sure that it's all clear, transparent, that everyone is informed in time, that there really aren't some, don't God, negative influences on, I say, existing associations. There are a few very positive things that I would like to stress and, I say, that are the very people we have consulted with. In addition to giving meaning to these fire departments, they also praised the fact of categorization. They say they were already able to propose it, because, on the basis of this proposal, according to the intentions, the equipment, the training of the members are determined in fact by categories of fire units and the conditions for their formation are given. Voluntary fire departments may be first, second or third categories, depending on material, technical equipment. This is another positive thing, but the two most positive things that I would like to stress on behalf of the MPs are, in fact, that units of local self-government should adopt an act, and it is six months from the entry into force of the law that will establish a system of incentives and privileges that is required to provide for members of volunteer fire departments to not some way motivate as many people from the community as possible, as many members of the local community to activate. We believe that this is extremely significant, and perhaps the most significant thing that this bill adopts is that it is actually a member of a voluntary fire department when participating in fire-fighting or when training is done is hurt or injured, that it is entitled to health and disability insurance. This is now clear that it has been regulated by some other law under the conditions laid down for members of fire-saving units of the MUP in accordance with the rules on pension-inhabited insurance. What I would also like to praise and stress, and from what I think they were all a little bit scared, is that this bill has not actually taken away property from the team so far with existing, voluntary fire companies, and that as far as their funding is concerned, and that the opportunities set out in the Association Act, such as donations, memberships, subsidies, gifts, or carrying out a business other activity that is gaining profits, but from the budget both from the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government through the natural allocation of funds, such as those provided to associations for certain programmes or for the lack of part of funding programmes that they implement. As I mentioned earlier, it's good that it's been left behind, so, say, enough time, a year and a half or 18 months that already registered fire departments deliver evidence to the APR of owning a voluntary fire department without paying a fee, I say, I hope they'll all pay enough attention to this and we won't have to get rid of it. What you know very well, Mr. Minister, what they're complaining about, the biggest problem, is an out-of-date technique, insufficient resources, say that huge faults are both on vehicles and on other techniques. When it comes to this, everyone is working intensively on how to get the funds to be fixed and that there are little hope of buying new ones. I will try to make sure that, in the remaining time of the parliamentary group, as I have pointed out, I base myself on several draft laws that are significant from the fields of European integration of the Republic of Serbia - the Law on Interrogation, Marking and Marking of Weapons, Devices and Amputations, on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, on free legal assistance, on critical infrastructure and on the protection of personality data, these are, in fact, all of our obligations under Chapter 23, 24, or you, harmonising with the legal assets of the EU. If the chairman permits it, I would like to deal with what is actually in the EU's general position in January 2014, because the negotiating framework says that the principles on which negotiations are based, among other things, say - the negotiations will be based on Serbia's achievements, and the dynamics will depend on the progress Serbia has made towards meeting membership conditions. Furthermore, in this negotiating, general EU negotiating position, it is also stressed that there must indeed be a general balance in progress, as regards all chapters, and given the links of these many mentioned chapters 23, the judiciary and fundamental rights and 24 freedoms of rights and security, and the values on which the EU is actually based, given their importance for implementing EU legal flows in all areas, if progress in these mentioned chapters is significantly lagging in relation to the overall progress of the negotiations, unfortunately, the Commission, on its own initiative or you, on the initiative of one third of the Member States, may propose not to open up, or close certain negotiating chapters. Until this imbalance in progress is resolved, why am I talking about it, because I think that very often almost daily you can hear which are actually blocking chapters, and I think it is from this position, the negotiating position of the EU, but which is accepted by the negotiating position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in January 2014, clearly that in addition to the negotiating chapter 35. - other issues, in fact, these negotiating chapters 23, 24 can be blocking. That is why it is extremely important, I think it is important to stress, the SVM MPs certainly welcome it, that after the debate, sometime next week, I suppose, and actually by adopting several laws that are on the agenda, we will make a step closer to the EU, so we will meet one of the criteria, for example. the adoption of a law on free legal aid. So, mentioning the laws I was talking about, as I pointed out, are part of the process of alignment with the European Legislative Heritage Corps. I must admit that we are not professional that, as a respected Mr. Minister, we are talking about a law on reducing the risk of disaster and managing emergency situations, but what is quite clear, in addition to harmonising with the directives, is how important it is to take advantage of the opportunities actually offered by this unique EU mechanism in the field of civil protection, both at the level of expert co-operation, training, but what is a much more significant early warning system, direct communication, response to an emergency situation, exchange of information, best practices, monitoring, coordinated operations, co-financing of transport, etc. Furthermore, I will now return a little more to the European integration field on how Serbia is assessed, in fact twice a year. Somewhere early in the spring, it's mostly April, and this year it was April 17, 2018, we get the EU's report for the negotiating chapter 23. Among other things, the European Commission's report this April said that access to justice is difficult due to the lack of an effective system of free legal assistance. The adoption of the law on free legal aid has been further delayed. Further issues such as the purpose of the law, its users and providers must be resolved free of charge. The SVM MPs certainly welcome and the view is that it is now finally after the delay, we also know about various problems, disagreements between the NGO sector, lawyers and why it took so long for this proposal to finally arrive at the Assembly, to put on the agenda. So, we welcome that he is finally in the process and I hope that we will have time, and I said so at a meeting with MEPs, that the next report, which is expected in early November, that the assessment will be that he will be adopted by the National Assembly, because we have already reached that we have been commended for having passed the government and for being in parliamentary procedure, but that it will help us to make the assessment better that we are now expecting in November. So, we have the view that social threats must be provided with free legal assistance, starting with recommendations from the Council of Europe and the fact that the EU is right to legal aid, to represent, is one of the fundamental rights, which provides an effective approach to justice. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU states, in fact, that, which was adopted in 2000, it states that everyone should be given the opportunity to be consulted and represented, defended, and that legal assistance available to the extent necessary to ensure effective access to justice must be made available to those who do not have sufficient resources. We believe that the law on free legal aid, there will be more criticism and issues, but the minister will explain it, there must be a way of exercising the right to free legal assistance, the organisation of services in municipalities, the formation and management of registers of all those, legal aid providers, whether it is lawyers or local self-government services. What we consider to be significant should not be disturbed by the mind, the fact that it is actually primary legal aid, or legal counselling of citizens outside and before formal legal proceedings, of particular importance, that this primary legal aid would contribute to legal certainty, would reduce the number of unnecessary procedures, would be relieved of courts and should be respected and supported in fact by advisory activity within the system of free legal assistance and, as I said earlier, the provisions which were controversial and difficult, delayed the process of passing this law mainly applied to the circle of the provider of free legal aid services, and here we heard lawyers rebelling, as the NGO sector and the lawyer itself thought differently. However, the minister is present with associates, so I would like to welcome and praise the Ministry of Justice, despite the fact that the law has not been passed before, the justice ministry has committed other activities aimed at strengthening access to justice and changes to the public-book tariff, it is predicted that persons with disabilities will no longer be obliged to pay an increased fee for the public notary's work, in the event of the assembly of public-book documents, the witnesses and other public notaries, translators, or interpreters are involved. Of course, we welcome this. This is a normal alignment with the anti-discrimination regulations on the other hand is the acceptance or fulfillment of the Recommendation of the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, which pointed to an unequal treatment of impaired persons in the process of drawing up a document in front of a public notary. What is also significant, that, in fact, after nearly a decade, the Ministry of Justice in March this year set up 17 permanent court interpreters for sign language for deaf persons, which is the first place after a long, long years. The obligation of the Republic of Serbia is to create conditions for the enjoyment and protection of the right to legal aid, and comes from several universal international documents on human rights, which guarantees access to justice and justice, including the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and the Law on ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The following two draft laws are part of our obligations and are foreseen by action plans for chapters 23 and 24. We may be late with some of us, with some of us just caught up, but the fact is that action plans are very ambitious and are currently being done at the end of this year. One law is on critical infrastructure and we would like to commend that it is actually an educated multi-sectoral working group that has been working on drawing up this legislative framework. Another law on the protection of personal data, which is also likely to be followed by other formulated criticisms, but I would like to stress that the adoption of this law is really foreseen in the Action Plans for Chapters 23 and 24 and that the Action Plan for Chapter 24 provides for, and we heard about it the other day on the Committee on European Integration, the EU Justice Cooperation Office Agreement or Eurostat, as we call it, and in order to conclude this agreement with Eurocast, it was necessary to amend the Data Protection Act on Personality and Personal Data. In addition, I would like to stress that it is envisaged that the training of prosecutors and judges on the ground should be carried out on this subject. The Honorable Madam Minister mentioned in her statement that it was a public debate. Now a little bit to defend the criticism, and I checked, when we talk about the Personal Data Protection Act, the public debate was actually from the beginning of December of last year and it lasted until mid-January of this year. What is also significant has been given a positive opinion both by the European Commission and by Eurostat on this proposal and, as I said, this is one of the laws where we have roughly met because its adoption is foreseen for the third quarter of 2018. To sum up, SVM MPs will vote on all the proposals ahead. We are pleased to take a few steps towards approaching the EU. I ask the Honorable Home Secretary to take care of voluntary fire companies until the end and when the sublegal acts are passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48071	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48072	Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic, to be exact. We have the usual picture of a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is that it is convened by emergency procedure and 10 laws of these 18 who are on the agenda are sent from the Government to parliament, means adopted by the Serbian Government within a period of less than 10 days compared to the day when this material was sent to us, and four laws were passed on the same day in the Government, the same day as the President of the Assembly sent it to us as MPs. We received this call on 26 October, and on 26 October, the government passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Security, Proposal for a Law on Criminal Infrastructure, Proposal for a Law on Investigation, Marking and Marking of Weapons, Devices and Ammunitions and Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Fire. These are all serious laws, but it's completely unclear with which smartness, by which procedure, by which methodology, with which the President of the Assembly sends us a law which, on that same day, in the late afternoon hours, came this bill from Nemina 11? She failed to read the laws that were first at the source, let alone make a decision that it was so urgent that it had to be discussed today. I don't doubt the quality of the laws that came from the Home Office. There's good laws here before. I have high confidence in 95% of the people who work in that ministry. Of course, in that ministry and in all others, always, and even now, it stinks from above, but there is no reason for good laws to be placed in one pointless position, to be under suspicion, because how can you have no doubt that someone from Germany overnight, probably through some underground tunnel through the Serbian presidency, is bringing us here, and then the President of the Assembly alone, or with someone's advice, I would ask her to be here, but she's not -- why does that give us that kind? So none of them are that character that couldn't wait at least a few weeks to get to know the public, the professional public and the public in general and give a positive assessment of those laws. So I'm talking about these laws that came from the Home Office and the MP group that I belong to and I personally don't have any amendments to those laws, so it's clear here, except for the first law that's on the agenda for technical reasons, which I'm going to explain later. They're Lexic amendments. The second typical situation for the meeting of the Serbian Parliament is that there is almost no one in the hall. The ruling coalition's MP is currently 42. As I recall, there was mostly two-thirds or something. The two-thirds majority in this House would be nearly 170 MPs, and there are only 40. We already know what's going on here, but for citizens who watch random transmissions, it's particularly interesting today that an entire parliamentary group that is part of the ruling coalition is not present. I mean SDPS, president of their Ljajic. I don't know what's going on, but I think we're gonna find out real quick and it's going in the right direction what's going on. As far as police laws are concerned, I only hope that in the Police Act, which is on the agenda today, there are consulted unions. This is, in practice, about the rights of employees in the ministry, the authorized persons of these others, and I hope that the unions, which are there enough, are consulted in the creation of this law. I've been interested in this for several reasons and for one personal reason, which has nothing to do with incomes, but is a clear honorary member of a police union for a very long time, and on that side I have one interest in this area. We have amendments to the Law of Violence at sporting events. Of course the existing legal acts were good. I hope these are better. I have confidence in those who have really written these bill proposals that it goes towards even better protection. Of course, there can be a lot of things going on at sports events. It can also burn half the stadium, and it can break half the hall, and it can also be normal conditions for playing sports event, and I recommend that people who have been at the Ministry for longer, who are following what is happening there, who are real professionals, for example, to the experience of the organization of the Cup of Radivoja Korać finals in basketball. In the last 15 years about seven, eight times it's happened in Nis and one five, six times I've been responsible for organising that finale, and nothing happened there. Once a torch was lit and the reaction of the present gendarmes was such that it would no longer occur to anyone to repeat, but precisely prevention, conversations with cheerleading groups led to their getting in line. The existing legislation, plus professional police engagement, leads to sports events being normal. Of course, it always opens the question of respect for the law. I'm interested in whether good friends, who are good friends to people who are very close professionally, friendlyly, cousinly, to the representatives of the most government in Serbia will be treated at sports events like these others? Do those who go to world championships and I don't know where all the people in the nearest environment of the president of the state are going to be treated the same way as those who are themselves as they are? The traffic fines absolutely need to be sharper and there's no doubt about it, that's one thing, and that's where we totally agree, I hope all of us. I'm glad that someone smart in the ministry noticed that it was pointless that measure of registration of vehicles over 15 years of age twice a year. Whether 14, 15 or 16, it depends on how the car was guarded, how it was serviced earlier, and I hope that one serious and clever thought about that bad provision led to her withdrawing now, and that it wasn't a courting of some potential electoral body where someone thought that his electorate was driving just like that, so it would be bad to be burdened with new givings. Of course, it's a good thing that the trade of weapons and everything that's in the long name of this law is done with us and that there are conditions for that, and that there are normal people who can do that, and I support that law, regardless of the signs in some media, that this job is actually about weapons and these things, that it's actually the family business of the minister. I don't want to go into that analysis, but it was on some front page. (Maria Obradovic: What is this expression? This is a shame. So much for police laws and I would ask you to protect me from the attack of the wartime president of the Security Committee. So let the viewers hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48073	Continue your colleague to Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48074	Thank you very much. Of course, there are also bill proposals that have been sent from the Justice Department and it is common knowledge that we respect everything I propose to a young minister, I speak absolutely affirmatively without any, not to have anyone defend anyone here now again, but unfortunately there are some bad examples here and there are several of them. Let's just say I'm on three. One is the Law on the Regulation of Courts, that is to say, on the amendment of the Law on the arrangement of courts. I'll read to the Serbian public that Law. He is on the eighth page and says that in the Law on Court Orders, and then goes into three lines that are all amendments to the Law, in Article 1. is said "1. In January 2019, it replaces the words ‘1. in the second subparagraph, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: This means that this law should have started to apply from January 1st of next year, but that the Ministry or someone, besides the Ministry or someone in the Ministry or someone against the Ministry, has prevented the situation from being brought to the courts in order to apply this law, and this is delayed by 1 January 2020. I'm not, I'm a lot of years old and I've been something in these state bodies, and of course I know what the courts are doing, but it's completely inexplicable that someone doesn't know how to organize the courts under the law that he brought himself. To make this clear to you, this law should otherwise apply from 1 January 2018, and is then amended to apply from 1 January 2019, and is now moving to apply from 1 January 2020. Mysteries, what's going on? If this is so complicated, so let's cancel it completely, so it doesn't apply, if it can be applied then let it apply in the time it is, means a capable ministry if it has a good intention it could create a judiciary system in Serbia by 1 January 2019, not just edit it. We have two great laws, a law on lobbying, which is, should be a law that should be adopted in every society if social conditions are created for that, which I don't think are in Serbia, and if it is given in a text that is such that it can positively respond to what is the subject and jurisdiction of such a law. What do we got here? We have through this law, it's an attempt to legalize corruption. It is obvious that behind this creation we will get as in the case of the perpetrators, as in the case of these householders or as it is already called, the building chief, and even in this case we will have those people who are close to ruling parties or ruling parties, although it is today, it is not safe which is not, on this day, and that it is pure legalization of what we already have as corruption. Of course, it's nicer to call yourself a lobbyist than a corrupt member of the regime, and I understand that, but it's not good for Serbia. Why am I saying that? Because this law is designed to be full of holes that will allow lobbying to be conducted in a way that is absolutely against the interests of the state, the citizens, the people, and that is why I call on the minister to withdraw this law, to respect the objections already made under this law and to come out with a good bill within the next time period, so that we do not come to the fact that the law on lobbying that should begin to apply, I do not know, eight days from the day of publication, that its validity be delayed for a year or two or three, as we had some other laws from the same ministry. Finally, we have a very bad law. Of course, for lobbying, for the Lobby Act, our MP group is asking to wipe out the whole, with a clear explanation, and that is also true of the Personal Data Protection Act. Of course it's a very important thing. Of course, that's something that every country that even geographically belongs to Europe should have in its legislation, that's important things, that are especially in this era of abuse of personality data not only with us, but intensively and in this country, that it needs to be passed law, but a law that makes sense. This law is pointless. I call on you, respected colleagues, and I call on the citizens of Serbia to report to you, inform you on the website of the Commissioner for Public Information, to take a look at the objections still made by the trustee, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, on this bill. He was once in state authorities, I think he was the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, has a long internship in the work of state authorities, the Commissioner is no longer aware of how many, several years before the end of the term of office, and should trust what he states as objections to this law. There are a lot of them, of course, this is a layman's parliament and it would be completely pointless if I were to talk about all the details that we, the doctors of legal science, even if they weren't faked, which are now in the majority, would be difficult to understand, but to focus on just one thing, and that is that in the draft of this law, in Article 40, it was said that restrictions on the right to protect these personality data, that they could be restricted by law. The word "law" is deleted from that sentence, from that article. It's actually a metaphor for how this government works. This law has been passed to delete the law, to delete legality, and to place 90 or a few dozen examples where it is allegedly out of the higher interests of state, investigation, this—this one, it does not apply the protection of personal data, but anyone can break into it. That's what happens every day. We have in every election in the last six or seven years that we have "controllers" coming from ruling states with a voter's list of names for people who are supposed to vote in that polling post. It's obvious, they boast, they call people, they call it the phone from the scene, it's one of the examples. We have a daily conviction on social networks, where as soon as someone says something meaningful against, justifiably, and there are reasons for all you want, the regimes to publish his data, to publish where he lives, to take pictures of his children, his relatives, to dig up, which is the worst of not only the truth but also lies about his life. That's what we have every day. With this law where you are assessing that through the sublaws of those who are required to enforce this law, you give the possibility of practically not implementing this law, if they assess that there is an interest, it's... . (Blazo Knezevic: How did you judge for “Sablja”? For "Sablja" who is interested, I am ready to repeat everything to him, and to tell him and to conduct him... I'm asking you to protect me from throwing away, if that's the Rules of Procedure. With your smile, you calmed them down. Thank you for that. Therefore, we need to learn a few things, especially those who say they have absolute support for citizens, two-thirds majority and other tra-la-la songs, that at least respect minimum procedures, that when a law comes, give one seven days, 15 days, that MPs, public, experts, laymen, get to know that law, you can also use those 15 days to affirm things that should be good for Serbia, if these laws are adopted, but, at least, a little procedure. Like this, I'm not going to say it, but I'm sure some would say it's a rampage of power. I'm not going to say it, of course, you know I don't use hard terms and ugly words, I'm not going to do it right now. Finally, the proof that most of these laws are not a good being is also in that MPs will give several hundred amendments to these laws, and amendments are given when you think something should be fixed, and when you think something needs to be fixed, that means something's wrong. I urge you, gentlemen and ladies of power, to put amendments, if they haven't already put them on these two laws that I think should be deleted immediately, in a way that will stimulate the Justice Department to come out next time with a serious proposal for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48075	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, you need to work on these pubs. Either there's fewer of them, or there's a limit to their working hours, or they don't serve alcohol before dinner, or they serve in smaller quantities. We have now had a showdown exercise of the "Fruskogorski Pearl" which has shown himself here as an expert in corruption. It's just a shame he was on the other side of corruption. In doing so, he was invited, believe it or not, to a "holy cow" called the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. How independent that trustee is shows how prominent he is and how professional he is is that he was a minister in his government. As I recall, he was a minister, he was the vice president of the assembly, he was an MP, he was in three parties. To tell you the truth, I don't know how that moral gromada was found in the place of the trustee, because it was supposed to belong to some great lawyer who wasn't involved in politics. The next thing he tried to avoid answering – and what corruption it was during the sale of DIN, during the sale of DIV, which was carried out during "Sablje", and he as then interior minister and how he deserved that "Sabbe" was introduced, because he allowed himself as interior minister to be killed by the prime minister of a member and eventually to take his place. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, he has called for his age. They say wisdom goes with age, but my fellow farmer only goes years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48077	Did you say article 107? (Marian Risticevic: I do not ask to be voted. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48078	And Article 106, Madam President. I am saying in advance that I am not asking that we be heard by the vote, because you were not there at the time when, contrary to what Article 106 prescribed here, there were inappropriate content that had absolutely nothing to do with the agenda point, or concrete address to other parliamentary groups, present ministers and different, totally unacceptable, messages. When we talk about parliamentary groups, one brief look at our ranks is enough to make sure that we are the MPs' group. He who is there alone is like a plague, and he speaks, my messenger group and I, is hardly able to comment on anything on the matter. When it comes to our proposals that we are fixing, we are correcting the understanding of those who are obviously unable to understand good and simple things, things like the successes that Serbia has achieved today, which it certainly could not have in its time. It is fully known for which reasons, they best described it themselves. There was no success at that time, among other things because, as they themselves admit, these people were only able to work on personal wealth, on what they said, quote, rigging competitions, tenders, commissions, etc. These are the reasons why they don't understand, and we help them understand, among other things, our discussions. Allusions to fans, otherwise completely inappropriate. The good news for those who are concerned is not happening today, and it was happening to them, that fans are being used for the violent takeover of power, that is, give them rewards, the state gives them rewards because they took part in it. That's not what's going on today. That's good news for Serbia, for those who listen not so good. The underworld, tunnels, digging, etc., other dark illusions. I didn't mean to react, but for the record, it's not his first time. He's had these delusions before, I think, three or four years ago, when he told me about Dragan Gilas that he was a grave robber, right? Why is that interesting to me? In that same statement, he said of him and that some terrible tycoon, right, is a monopolist tycoon, and that the first of all the tycoons to arrive at his party at the time, but also the worst and most dangerous, is to repeat his words, and on that very subject. What's going on between them right now, I don't know, but obviously it's going in the right direction. And since he mentioned the election, if he accidentally goes that way, it will clearly show how good and useful it is for all of them. They can say anything about any of us today, and this man is an example, and they can tell on any television, in any newspaper, anything they can think of about Alexander Vukic to any of us. He and Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic are examples. And imagine, not even today at the Public Service can anyone mention them. But you know what, the people understand it well, so when it comes to these choices, you go the way you've been going for years. And you know what -- and you'll be doing it for many years, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48079	Article 106, do you want to vote? (No) The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48080	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to discuss today 17 laws that are very important. I will join the lamentations of my predecessors who feel that it really shouldn't have done that so many laws are discussed at one point, because many of these laws, namely, are all laws that matter, but many are both life and it would be interesting if we were both good and useful, that we had more time to talk about everything. But, well, that's already some established practice and my rhetorical question would be – as long as this practice goes, but really, just a rhetorical question. To him, I'm afraid, I can't expect any answer. First, I will start from the 1st point of the agenda, or the first Law on the reduction of the risk of disaster and risk management. It was very good to hear from the minister that the word prevention was used very often. Prevention is really important, especially with us in our country. Serbia, thank God, is blessed with its geographical and climatic position that we have no hurricanes, no typhoons, no earthquakes, no tsunamis, but therefore we have some other disasters that we can do well to warn through preventive action. What would be my observation, or the observation of our entire parliamentary group, is that we think it's a shame that this sector isn't raised to the level of some direction that might have wider, more, better ingenuity. In this way, I would, I think, both human and logistic, when I say humanely, I don't mean Mr. Maric, I think he's doing his job well, and I want to commend him, but I think of these other employees, because what I hear from people who work at the MUP, many say that this sector of emergency situations is where people come from, the police and the people who are employed in the MUP as some kind of punishment, people who may already be in front of retirement, who aren't very interested in it, and we know that logistics we're not exactly like the state, that means this sector, because there were no funds, there was no ladder, there was no real means to put out that fire. My next attention in the discussion will be at paragraph 13, i.e. the Personal Data Protection Act. It's a shame it's only point 13. We all know the pain of this congregation, which is that normally the first two laws or maybe even the first law, hundreds of amendments are submitted to the first few members. We have seen here that the remarks have already been made by the Commissioner, Mr Sabic, but she has also made objections to the SPC and I am sure that I am not the only MP who has received a letter from the church, where the church is rebelling and making remarks, saying that it has participated very closely in the public debate, however, that none of its thesis and its certain things that she wanted to change has been adopted. Of course, nothing was adopted by the Commissioner, who gave his opinion on the 27th page. What I would concentrate on at this point is a member, I think it's a Article 40, where it's "law", or "law" out. It's really a little absurd that we're passing the law supplementing the word law, and it's a very serious thing because that information is of particular importance. If that legality is cast out, it is the collapse of the legal system and it is contrary to the Constitution, with the law, with international documents and conventions and seriously violates the rule of law. It violates, too, our Constitution, the Constitution of Serbia, which, in its Article 42, which I will quote here, guarantees protection of personal data. Paragraph 2 of the same article states, "To collect, keep, process and use personality data is governed by law". Now I ask Mrs. Kuburovic – will data protection then, if it is not regulated by law, edit itself with "Informer"? We were witnesses, a few weeks ago, as one of our fellow citizens' medical records appeared in "Informer", in that daily tabloid, and that the woman was placed on a pillar of shame. Today this woman, tomorrow someone else, can either one of us or can even one of you who at that moment is not at the very best. I think the word "law" should be returned to the law, because that is the way the law is designed in the first place. If those words “legal restrictions, ” that word “law ” is not just a simple word, it is also a paradigm and it speaks of the law as really protecting us. I would also like to say a few words about the draft law amending the Law on Prosecution. It's a very brief addition. However, I am somehow under the impression that an amendment of Article 204 has been proposed. The law on litigation is, in fact, the continuation of the policy of creating a social environment under the influence of large capital in a particular case of business banks. In fact, the business banks in our country have bewitched, they are more than well protected and the idea that people don't even wonder if they want to go with someone else, when the bank raises its hands, or when the loan is sold, to sell them as some medieval farmers. Namely, what's this about? It's about, say, a man taking a loan, serving it for a while, as was the case with these x thousands, it seems to me that 20,000 people who have loans in Switzerland, which unfortunately only Serbia from the whole environment, from Central Europe, failed to solve, and everyone else did, and after a certain number of years or months, but more often, a man starts to, in so far as possible, pinch with payments, or service that loan, and the bank sues him. Now there are some firms that are going to buy his credit. Of course he has to get out of that apartment, he loses everything. If, for example, Of 50,000 Swiss francs already paid 60, but it has to pay off yet, and he doesn't have and not only that, then that firm without asking, because with the company that bought his credit he was never in any contractual relationship, no one asks him by law whether he wants to accept, that he has a new prosecutor now, that defendant no one asks anything, the bank simply rubbing its hands well compensated and if she could calmly, since she got all the money back and very often and very much over it, to simply withdraw and to write off that part of the loan. So we now have a situation that is very ugly, I would say, which is that one principle of inequality is introduced, that the principle of forcing those who have less or less, over those who cannot be and are not part of the system, because they are natural persons, versus banks that are representatives of large capital. In countries you usually have more or less masked citizens come and rob banks. It turns out that banks are robbing citizens, and that they're being robbed by even stronger ones, with new, innovative and strengthened legal solutions. So that's the thing to avoid anyway. As far as this Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act is concerned, of course, we support that this second technical review be taken off the agenda, although we think it would be good, since we live in a country where most citizens drive cars that are over 15 years old, because we are doing so well. I think we should still do two tests technically, but to actually be the price of just one technical examination, just for traffic safety. As for the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports, this law was passed 15 years ago, and two years ago by the Prime Minister, the current president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vucic said that the state was powerless in front of fans, hooligans and those fan groups. I would certainly also as a mother and as a citizen here make a distinction between fans, i.e. boys and girls, more often boys, who cheer for their team, dress up shirts, jokes, go, shout, sing and those who are hooligans, who make riots and hooligans who are connected to criminal groups, and we know well that these criminal groups are very often connected to certain state structures. I'll say a few words about that later. I'd also say, as far as these fans' problems are concerned, I'll call them that, and if I don't think about this first group of fans I've been talking about, because I don't want to offend these people in this way, I think the problem here is not only about these hooligans, we'd better call them that, which is what their illegal behavior shows in the tribune itself, it's mostly football stands, but the problem is that it's still being spread, or what's going on, which is related to setting up the results in sports betting and also to drug trafficking. I'd also say the police had a lot of loose hands so far in the way she could have acted on those hooligan groups. However, here we have a situation, let's say, last year you have a case with that derby at Partizan Stadium where Croatian fans also participated in the conflict. The police and the D.A.'s office brought only a group that had suffered heavy beatings in the conflict, and did not perform that group that was under protection. It's a public secret and we know that there are certain groups that are protected. That means they're so-called. "our hooligans" which need not be touched and which should be protected. If we know they're, say, in that stadium and around it, all covered in cameras, and never those guilty people came to justice. Also, it is known very well how certain group leaders have been associated with organised crime and how many times and how many years they have delayed their departure not only to the court, but also to the execution of that act. I will refer to the KRIK survey that speaks of Aleksandar Stankovic. He's dead now, he was killed somewhere at this time, I think, two years ago, in a mob deal. He's better known by his nickname Sala Mutavi. Stankovic was the leader of the Janjicari fan group, which was known for violent incidents, and they say evil languages that he was also one of the performers of the Savamala work, but these are the evil languages, I will not enter it. So, this hooligan group, and the society that was gathering around it, provided Belgrade rafts, and Stankovic said he had ties to the police, because he never served a five-year prison sentence he was sentenced to as a drug trafficker. So it wasn't because he was fighting, it was because he was an organizer of drug trafficking. "Krik" has discovered that the court, I quote, has postponed him 12 times to prison for allegedly poor health. Stankovic, however, at the same time, was very sick and could not report to the authorities of the prosecution, was seen in the stands and participated in the fights. Also, I would like to remind you that a man who is very close to Stankovic, who was part of the team of the murdered drug dealer and this late hooligan leader, participated and was in the security of President Aleksandar Vukic, just in May 2017, when the president was inaugurated and sworn here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. About the kids of high-ranking officials seeing each other together and in company with people who are hooligan-type fans, so-called. The tough guys who have criminal charges, that's what they're talking about here, and that's all I'm gonna say. I finally have one question for the police minister, or I'd like him to give me information on how many crimes the last five years have been linked to cheerleading groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48081	The word is made by Minister Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48082	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't want him to stay if I didn't want to answer Mr. Zivkovic's question even though I answered, you know, the system didn't register. First of all, you mentioned the Law on Court Orders and that the Ministry of Justice is not able to regulate courts, that you read a little better the provision that needs to be changed, absolutely no part of it applies to the very organisation of courts, but exclusively to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the jurisdiction of the VSS. How capable of organising courts, we saw in 2010 when you abolished dozens of courts and left 836 judges out of office. This ministry is a ministry that is also working to improve both positions and jobs and judges and has never again invested in a judiciary as it is now being invested. I'll remind you that you left the courtrooms that were in the pigeons where absolutely there was absolutely no access, that we weren't talking about people with disabilities and old faces who couldn't even get to the courtroom. Exactly, I will repeat, and I do not find it difficult, as many times as it takes, that this provision applies to the transfer of jurisdiction between the Ministry of Justice and the VSS. If you haven't been able to see whether or not we're able to arrange this and pass on jurisdiction, I'll remind you that it's about the Law on the Order of Courts, which was passed in 2008, so it was changed in 2009, so in 2010, so in 2011 several times, I wouldn't say that it was the law that passed this power, but just as you were in power, so we're trying to correct all the screwups in this law. There have been attempts by the Ministry of Justice to amend the Law on Regulating Courts in 2013, but unfortunately by the Venice Commission at the time we did not get permission to do so, because it is said that we must wait for constitutional changes, in order to finally regulate what is in the jurisdiction of the VSS, what in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry in order to further access the reforms that are being implemented. So it was probably the shortest law you could comment on, given the scope of the other laws, so you pointed out that we are not able to regulate the judiciary, although the organisation of courts is absolutely not subject to a provision that is changing. The second law you have mentioned is the law on lobbying and you are just saying that this law introduces corruption, on the contrary, the aim of the law is to prevent any form of a corrupt element in the process of adopting and laws and general acts and will oblige, if adopted by the National Assembly, all of us officials, including you MPs, to respect the provisions of this law and to report whether and who tried to lobby to adopt a certain act. This is not only the obligation we have towards the EU accession process, it is one of the recommendations of the GREKO Body of the Council of Europe, which has just said that the law on lobbying must be passed in order to have a transparent and inclusive process when it comes to the adoption of general acts. I don't know why, when it comes to lobbying, you tie yourself to public executioners. Public perpetrators were introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia by the 2011 Implementation and Security Act. The highest number of perpetrators has just been elected and sworn in 2011, 2012, are precisely persons who still perform their duties today. The SNS has not introduced public enforcement officers into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. If we had a law on lobbying that year, we might know what happened in 2011 when the Justice Ministry Working Group ended the draft law on enforcement and security, where all legal means were provided to protect citizens in the enforcement process, where a legal remedy was intended, or appeal for all decisions that could be made. Look at the miracles, during the night, when the law ended in the government, all these provisions were deleted, so I ask you, on whose orders and on whose lobbying such a change was made. Because if there was a law on lobbying back then, we'd probably know who ured, if the citizens were absolutely unprotected in the process of execution and security. That is why we were forced to pass the law in 2015 to return the basic remedy to the citizens, which is an appeal to all decisions of the perpetrators who can review a court that we did not unfortunately have until then. When it comes to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it is a law that is absolutely in line with both the Regulation and the EU Directive, which is confirmed by the European Commission itself when the law is sent for analysis. Which means that our provisions are exactly the same with the provisions applicable in the EU Member States. The EU regulation is directly applied in EU member states, so those countries had no obligation to pass new laws because they have a direct application unlike Serbia that had to implement it in the harmonisation process in its law. Unlike the regulation, it is the directive that has ordered EU Member States to harmonise their regulations, which is what Serbia has done, which is why one law also covers what is now in the EU countries in two documents. I find it very strange to mention the opinion of the Commissioner, who has been called primarily several times to participate in the work group, who explicitly rejected it by saying that he cannot as an independent body participate in the executive task force. What would that mean? That no working group established by any ministry can participate either the judge or the prosecutor, who will also apply the law later, and you can be empowered to give an opinion and to expect your opinion to be adopted in the process of creating a proposal for the text of the law. Obviously, you did not read the bill well enough in front of you today and compare the opinion given by the Trustee, because if you had done so you would have seen that a large part of the remarks made by the Commissioner in his opinion on his website had just been adopted by the Ministry of Justice. I will give you just a few of the remarks where these provisions have been applied, and you can find that on the Justice Ministry website, which has a very detailed and clear analysis of what this has been done, so I will tell you that the objections adopted are in relation to Article 46, in relation to Article 50, in relation to Article 59, in relation to Article 52, in relation to Article 60, in relation to Article 62. So, much of the remarks made by the Commissioner, the Justice Ministry adopted, where it felt justified and was in line with the EU regulation and directive. I'm very surprised that you're calling on Article 40, because if you'd read the opinion of the Commissioner you're referring to, you'd see that in that detailed opinion, the Commissioner is not mentioned anywhere in relation to the member of the 40 that you're currently pointing out. Probably the trustee later got his senses, so he estimated that the law of 40th was unconstitutional, which I think can only be done by the Constitutional Court or perhaps the Commissioner imposes himself on the motionors at the end of his term to be judge of the Constitutional Court. At no time, when it comes to Article 40, the Commissioner did not highlight the objections that later appeared. I'll just tell you that his objection, when it comes to Article 40, referred to Section 3. There is no mention of the need to introduce the word "law" and that the restriction exists in accordance with the law. I think this is about disabling the public, trying to show something that is absolutely not true, because exactly the Law on the Protection of Personality Data introduces general provisions when it comes to the protection and processing of personality data, and it is only this law that introduces restrictions that can exist in relation to the general regime. The very word "law", if it were to stand, would just give the possibility that there are some other laws that can also introduce restrictions under the general regime. So I believe that by the end of the debate, the Commissioner will find a few more examples for which he will assess that they are not constitutional, which he did not have any objections to when he delivered his opinion to the Ministry of Justice. Once again, I would like to point out that absolutely when it comes to a member of the 40th, there is no point in trying in any other way to limit the general regime when it comes to the protection of personality data. It is only this law, namely the bill of law that lies before you, a law which can restrict the application of the general regime and applies exclusively to the competent authorities when carrying out an investigation, processing, detection of criminal offences and when it comes to the threat of national security. These are the only exceptions where there is a restriction when processing personality data. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48083	How does the replica when the minister responded to MPs Raskovic Ivic? (Zoran Zivkovic: No, it's me. She didn't answer you for sure. (Zoran Zivkovic: I ask you to wake up and listen to what is said. ) I am fully awake, and now the word will be given to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48084	Thank you, Mr. President. I can say that we are, I would say, proud of the fact that in the course of the debate, at least in the last hour, there is really no fundamental objection to the laws that we have proposed. That really speaks well of the text of the law, of everything that was intensities when we proposed laws. I'm glad to see you as someone who's a proposing. I'm glad because the effort and work of a large number of people who took part in this somehow got valorized through all of this. It's hard for me to answer everything that's been said, which mostly has nothing to do with the proposed laws, but it has to do with things that are repeated in our society by certain people as some kind of mantra. I guess if you repeat enough times, they should become true. It is, usually not followed, when you have some knowledge of crimes committed or suspicions. The second is when you put it nicely in the form of criminal charges or inform the state authorities about it, and the second is when you present it every time on a flat-rate basis and you never do anything about it. It's perfectly clear that you're doing it for political reasons, you're doing it to get some cheap points. Now, you know something, you know, this is common knowledge, it has knowledge, it's all very unserious. So, it just shows that unfortunately here, where we need to talk about bill proposals, these people have nothing to say about laws, because, you know, if you don't say a word about these laws, whether you look back negatively or positively, but you're talking about some of the general places in public discourse, then I'm just not sure that this debate, of course, has every MP's right to run it however he wants, but that debate won't improve the law anyway. As far as the Emergency Sector is concerned, I want to tell you that for the Emergency Sector so people know, there were questions about whether sectors or directors? Sectors or directorship, it's exactly the same. The internal organisational structure of the sector is equal to the organisational structure of the directorship, rights, powers, competences, job descriptions, exactly the same. As for people working in the sector, to become a fireman, to become an inspector for prevention, to become anyone in the emergency sector, you have to meet certain criteria. So, according to every job description, based on basic competences, according to the special conditions that you have to meet, you have to do it, whether you come from other parts of the ministry or come from civilization. And yet, what you have to fulfill is the competition. He can be internal or public. I can say that we are proud that we have called in the last more than a year, more competitions in which it will be held when this last one is completed, about 275 firefighters, rescuers and only after the competition, therefore, after the competition that has been called in the territory of all Serbia. I think it was done in such a way that the enviable interest of the Republic of Serbia was shown to work in fire rescue units where the relationship was once 10 to one, compared to the number of places we had called for in the competition. So, you can't talk about any punishments, there come some, as it is said, hatched cops, etc. They wouldn't have met the conditions of the competition first. On the other hand, it will turn out that there is no capable man working in the Emergency Sector, that these are some people who are not able to fight for anything, and hundreds and hundreds of fires are put out monthly in Serbia, fighting floods, earthquakes. I have to tell you, it's very capable people, and I'm grateful to every man and sector for the extraordinary situation of enormous work. It's often work and it's not always visible to the naked eye. So, and to prevent them from protecting our children in schools and kindergartens, through prevention when they examine the conditions in which our children are going, when they are doing the elaborates that need to provide maximum protection against fires, that what happened to us in some years when people in discotheques were burned because there was not enough quality protection by those natural and legal persons who were obliged to do so. These people in the sector led by Mr. Maric work day and night, so that no such thing happens anywhere. Also, police officers and firemen are in schools, over two thousand of them, teaching our children what they do in emergency situations, how to cope with fires, floods, how to be as ready as possible to respond to all the challenges. We did it all in a short time, it wasn't there before. As for the equipment of the sector, I can tell you that we invested nearly four billion dinars in the equipment of the sector in 2017 and 2018. In construction facilities, infrastructures, therefore, related to the equipment supply sector, vehicles, intervention uniforms, protective uniforms, goods, complexes all that was necessary for people in the sector to be more equipped. Is that enough? Of course not, absolutely not. It's much better than it was before, but I don't want to talk about it, I'd like the firemen to talk about it. When we get this new contingent of this, the next and the next 2020, when we finish this segment of fire trucks we'll be able to fully withdraw those vehicles that are in the sector, I'd say 40 and 45 years. So, we're gonna finish that job the same way, and if it isn't, if there's a deal going on. So the procurement processes are in progress, something's going to be in next year, the funds are secure and people have a chance to see it, we're showing it periodically. So, as for firefighters, rescuers and their training and for the construction of a new large centre in Vranje and for a new centre that we will work in Mladenov that will serve to train firefighters, rescuers, therefore, these funds are provided and we are really making progress. As for hooligans, the state is absolutely not powerless in front of hooligans and criminals among fans, but we are asking the court. The police are doing their job, you will see at every sports event a sufficient number of police and people from both the gendarmes and other police units who do their job bravely, who do their job according to the law and who have no problem standing up to anyone. Today in Serbia, in that sense, tell me a fan we haven't arrested? The name of the one who wasn't arrested? Here, I tell you, there is no one from both leaders and quasi leaders, all of them arrested, for various acts, where there have been acts, those who are not guilty of something I can't arrest them by force. But I also ask the courts to punish them harshly. You're saying this is a court decision that delayed his detention and somehow linked it to the police. What does that have to do with the police? Did the police arrest him for this? For drugs? Yes, it is. Is he convicted of drugs? Yes, it is. What else should the police do? What's the police supposed to do next, what's the police's job in that sense? I need to convict him, I need him, I don't know, to make private police prisons? It's not a police job. Is that a criminal? Yes, it is. What difference does it make? So, it's always getting harder, it's always this kind of story being planted, one of these criminals is close to, I don't know, people labeling themselves, people working day and night in the fight against that crime very easily stick labels and then these people are imputing something that can't be further from the truth. And that's because I read something twice in one of these tabloids that's on the other side, because those tabloids on the other side, they're fine. That when he mentions family members, when they talk about the president killing his own child, when they talk about us all, I don't know this kind of thing, that's all right. It's all right because you're on the other side of those TVs that publish them they're good, because on the other hand, these journalists are great, not like Mare Dragovic who needs to be beaten up in front of TV, so it's absolutely she's great for beating up, because she's not on that side, but some others are just fine. Well, when it's done like that, then that kind of hate speech, that's a hate speech when people, because they don't think the same thing you do, label the scariest things and draw targets on their heads. These people draw targets on their heads. People who work in the police, who fight crime, and then label them that they are -- that's what they're close to, this is what they're doing. You're absolutely drawing targets on their heads. Instead of these people being the ones who are going to do something good for our country, they're from some very irresponsible people literally being satanized. I want to speak for all these people because they are unable to appear in public, they cannot respond as I or any of the MPs can. They're not public figures, they're not people who are regular television, let's put it that way, no matter what they can show up, give some interview or whatever, but it's just not their job. After all, their job is to fight crime, it's not their job to do an interview. That's what we seem to be having a problem with. What I want to tell you, the police will do their job. Police are something that Serbian citizens can rely on and we want to be guaranteed safe and secure Serbia. Do we have challenges in our country? We have, they have all the other countries in our environment. Look at what European statistics say, don't trust us, here, don't take us as parameters so we don't have to be biased. Take Europe's data, take what Europe says about serious crimes related to the Republic of Serbia and to all countries in our environment, about EU countries. See what Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands look like developed countries, what Serbia looks like. The number of murders per 100,000 inhabitants, the number of serious crimes of others per 100,000 inhabitants, let's see where we are and where they are. So let's see how we stand here. You will see, and I hope that after that you will speak much better about your country, you will see how much better Serbia is than many of these countries. There are countries that are better than us, and we're going towards it, we're working on it, and what matters to me is that there are no protecteds here, there's no one we're not gonna arrest if he's guilty of anything, no one. Here, I wait for a name, I don't mind mentioning any name in Serbia, and those who are on one side or the other, simply, if a man is guilty of something he has to answer for, and that's the end. So, the ministry will try to continue, let's say, do our fight against crime every day to improve the position of police, because we want to provide these people with better income. I am grateful to both the government and the president for having provided the third year in a row of funds that the police have a higher salary, these people and we need to have higher salaries and we are working on it, better equipment, but at the same time a better legal framework in which we will be able to do our job even more effectively. I'm sorry, Mr. Zivkovic isn't here, but I've seen him speak from his own experience about some things and I see from that experience he says something smells from above, I think he meant the period when he performed those most responsible functions. I quoted what he said. And on the other hand, I can see that he understands that from his experience he's talking about what a corrupt member of the regime means, but I really wouldn't get involved in Mr. Zivkovic's family business.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48085	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48086	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, along with my associates, I must begin by pointing out that my parliamentary group, or the SPS parliamentary group, will support all proposals of the law, as well as proposals made by both the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the state's chief prosecutors when it comes to the holders of judicial functions. This is not because this should be a reflection of the serviality, but rather because it is based, when it comes to laws, too much on professional grounds and professional views that are absolutely consistent with what is in the bill's proposals, and as regards the proposal for holders of judicial functions, they are undoubtedly the product of one quality selection, one quality selection with respect to all the rules set out in the evaluation and all that can be a parameter for selecting the most qualitative candidates who, hopefully, will be supported in the Voting Day and be elected as holders of judicial functions. With the apology of Minister Stefanovic who came out, I will initially determine myself according to the laws, or the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice. And, let me tell you quite frankly, Your Honor, this is indeed an example of how quality laws should be proposed. Without intending to minimise any other promoter, any other ministry, this is about essential things in terms of norms, when it comes to the systematicization of something that has not been well systemized so far and what, in any case, can in practical terms lead to the most favourable solutions, or where the law will give its full application. The first law I'm going to talk about is a law on free legal aid. This law no doubt contributes to the fact that, on the one hand, the judiciary remains what it is, which is independent and free, and on the other hand to allow access to courts, which means access to justice. Of course it's both constitutional and any other obligation of your ministry and you, as someone who runs the ministry, and at the same time something that you managed to make very good standards in this bill. And that is to finally make a selection of users of free legal aid that are now categorized into three groups. And I can't agree with the comments and remarks you received today that there are categories of population that are allegedly excluded from the category of users of free legal aid, and they were supposed to be in that category. The remark simply does not stand because it is precisely this law that defined that the first population of citizens is the one that comes out of it, to call it the social mile, and then we come into the situation that exactly the answer to those who have pointed out the law itself, that it is the citizens of Serbia who are in such a financial state that if they entered the situation that they have to bear the costs of proper procedures, then they would certainly be reduced to the social category of the population. For this reason, it is this law that gives them a type of benefit, and on the other hand protection, and overly legal protection that they are also users of free legal aid. Of course, the third category as vulnerable persons, these are persons who exercise adequate rights, mostly in court proceedings, are a very significant part of our citizens who should enjoy exactly what this law gives them, which is free legal aid. What is also good about this law is a clear definition of the procedure in which free legal aid is being implemented. However, I would like to point out one fact that the lawyer is proud of. Given that the lawyer was involved in the drafting of this bill, I am a member of that so-called "law." I must point out that there is indeed a very correct relationship between the lawyer and the justice ministry thanks to you, because finally the lawyer with its principled, on the one hand, attitudes, and on the other hand the views that give and how a great contribution to the adoption of such laws has come to its end, which is to protect its position. Why? Because the attorney general of this law is a provider of free legal aid, because not even associations that are also defined as legal support providers can do so without a lawyer, because, in a concrete sense, lawyers, when it comes to representations, defences, etc. are the only holders of free legal aid. That's why the satisfaction of a lawyer in this law is recognized as the headquarters of free legal aid. What seems very important to me is that in synergy with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government you will try or, hopefully, insist on raising the capacity of local self-government, given that local self-government is the first degree in the procedure prescribed here to achieve free legal assistance. Why am I saying this? The capacity of local self-government is very low, and you're aware of that. And, there are a large number of local self-governments in Serbia that do not have any free legal assistance at all, nor do they have organs that provide this free legal aid. I do not want to mention the names of cities, or even municipalities that are not sufficiently developed, or have not developed free legal aid enough, and some literally do not. Absolutely. Therefore, there is indeed a lot to be done in this direction, as in the education of employees in local self-governments, and especially in relation to Article 7, so I will ask you, because this is extremely well-intentioned on my part, that through the education of those who will be involved in making decisions when making requests for free legal assistance, that they decide on this request rationally and justly. I am saying this because of Article 7, paragraph 6, in the position of Article 7, which says – In a procedure in which it is obvious that the applicant for free legal aid does not seem to be successful, especially if his expectations are not based on the facts and evidence he has presented or are contrary to the positive regulations, his request will be rejected. Your Honor, it will be dangerous here if whoever decides to take charge or enter the jurisdiction of the courts, and even makes a decision instead of the courts, which in no way should he, and we come to a situation where someone in the name of the courts decides, which in no case should he do. These matters can only be decided by the court and this is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court, and in no case in the jurisdiction of one who cannot perceive things that his facts will be presented, or the evidence that he presented to the local self-government authority that the local self-government authority assesses whether it will be respected or not, whether it will be positive in the dispute or not. I think the situation here is such that whoever decides this has to be highly educated and highly, highly professionally trained with the necessary experience to evaluate anything that's written here at all. In Article 34 of the same law on which I am commenting, I would ask you to or through the resolution board, since we had no grounds for amendments to the quality proposal of the law, to consider Article 3 of Article 34's position where deadlines are unclearly defined, where it is said that the application to the Ministry in the event of refusal may be filed within eight days of the date of receipt of the solution. This is not disputed, but it is then said - within eight days or three days of the expiry of the deadline after which the request is deemed to have been rejected. I'm afraid in a practical sense, these words will be well-recognized. So it's eight days or three days. Which is then applied - this one of eight or this one of three days? So, this one vagueness, which in a practical sense can cause certain dilemmas, should be removed, so I would ask you to pay attention to this fact, which I have pointed out, or the bill, to. In all other things, this law, in any case, is for now a proposal, but as a law, it will in a long time give its full effect. Indeed, it is commendable that we have something that we have not had so far, which is a very clear procedure when exercising the right to free legal aid. The next law I want to comment on is the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. Indeed, Your Honor, this is an extremely high-quality bill. Unlike the law so far, in this law you have normized something that no one has ever normed, especially when it comes to legal means or legal remedies. So far, it's just a complaint and a possibility of starting a administrative dispute with an administrative lawsuit. Now we have a wide range of legal resources that can be used and there you really have maximum support, starting with the complaint, and then objecting, when it comes to the data processing, then, very important, and indeed very important that direct judicial protection can be achieved, as well as that the right to compensation can be achieved both material and immaterial and from anyone who injures certain regulations or partly even harms the data they relate to. As far as the Commissioner is concerned, here the status of the Commissioner is finally defined as needed and clear, starting with his jurisdiction, and beyond all that his status should be envisaged through the law and legislation. It is no doubt that the Commissioner has to carry out inspection tasks, to apply the law, to take care of whether the penalties proposed or pronounced, to which he has the right, will be an adequate mechanism to solve certain problems, but what is very important, it is very important that we now have a clear procedure when it comes to the protection of personality data, which so far, we must be absolutely honest, has not been sufficiently precise. As far as the Lobby Act is concerned, the objections to this bill are absolutely unreasonable and unargumented. Why am I saying this? This is the first time we have passed anti-corruption law, that is, for the first time in a bill, I hope soon and by law, when we vote it, it makes a reduction in corruption, or the impact on public policies is finally systemically resolved. Why? Because this potential impact on decision-makers from the gray zone has passed into the law and no one can doubt it, especially given that anyone who will be lobbyist, who will be able to carry out the actions provided for in this law, must submit a report. That report is also transparent. On the one hand, he gives legal certainty that the law will not be misused. On the other hand, it obliges the one to whom this law applies, when it comes to lobbying, and the lobbying factor itself, or the one to whom lobbying is directed that what it does must be reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why? That's why, as a public official, it has the same obligation. There is no difference between the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Anti-Corruption Agency law and this bill, because they have the same goal - to curb corruption, or to reduce it to the least possible extent. It is good that the report provides that what is very important must be systematised, and this is the subject of lobbying, contracting, public officials, etc., In order not to be exaggerated in a professional explanation, when simplified commentary on this law, this law allows, on the one hand, that finally those who have tried in various ways to come up with appropriate decisions, especially decisions made by public authorities, to influence public officials, to influence public policies, and have been used by different means, cannot do so anymore. I can, but under one condition -- to enter this system, to meet the conditions that this law stipulates that they can be lobbyists, not to say now what criteria they are, to have the least high professional preparation, that Serbian citizens and all other criteria are and thus fully regular and fully legitimate lobbying. Finally, to break prejudice is not lobbying means of achieving unfair, immoral and illegal goals. Lobbing is now a means to achieve legitimate goals in the legal procedure, and that is the conclusion of all that is meant to mean the essence of this law. With regard to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, very briefly, this procedural solution removes one obstacle that has so far been present in the caselaw and is linked to banks as participants in the proceedings, i.e. banks that have some party legitimacy. In a particular case, it's about loans and it's about obtaining rights, which is the right to settle obligations from the loan, so as we've had one procedural obstacle so far that the bank couldn't get into the party's position in the process, especially when it comes to obtaining rights from the prosecutor, now it's simplified and I think you've successfully solved one problem, which is that the prosecutor only gives written consent and based on written consent we're entering into a legislation that has so far been unable to be present. I mean the party's ID, which so far could not have been present in the process itself. When we talk about the law on the enforcement of out-of-conduct sanctions and measures, too, very briefly, that law gives certain benefits to the crimes against which alternative criminal sanctions have been imposed and now that benefit which has not been precise so far and clearly arranged is bound to what is prescribed here. One hour of stay outside of the place where the detention is maintained, i.e. the punishment, which is home terms, during the day, during a period of 7 to 17 hours, as well as the first conversation with the person to whom the extra-conductive sanctions have been imposed, which in any case represents a qualitative shift in the current legal solutions. Since I would no longer comment on the very proposals of the law, having a very high quality of the proposal for these laws, I would also like to address Minister Stefanovic in relation to the law concerning the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events. Minister Stefanovic, you have done this law one step towards prevention, because this law should be seen exclusively from the aspect of preventing any illegal action, any illegal behaviour that is not only related to stadiums, not only to objects where sporting events are held, but also to locations outside of these facilities, and where behaviours, which are mainly against them, are mainly against the law, because this law would not have been passed if they were not, generate problems in both stadiums and sports halls and elsewhere where sports events take place. It is good that in this sense we have a system solution, which on the one hand will relax the police, and on the other hand affect the potential perpetrators of any form of illegal action, that such action will never be applied again. That's why I think that prevention here, or the preventive character of this law, is very pronounced. At the very end of my presentation, I address the representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and I want to draw attention once again – quality proposals, I do not want to comment on them, because I have no right to interfere in this either as a MP or as a citizen, but I am very pleased that, despite everything that has been tried by certain pressures, even on the Committee of Justice, through various anonymous letters have passed quality candidates. I have the right to say that these are two candidates for the Court of First Instance and one candidate for the General Court in Požega. Jelena Čupovic, Tamara Jovanovic and Natasa Filipovic, in any case deserve to be elected as holders of judicial functions, or courts of these courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48087	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, on the agenda of this 25-point session, we have 17 laws, 10 of which are from the field of security at all, and 10 of them are the five laws that regulate the work of institutions and services to oppose potential perpetrators and in general to prevent the country's security collapse. These five laws include amendments to the Law on Police and the Law on Private Security. Why am I potentialing these two laws? Because they are according to the National Security Strategy, they are national security factors. So they're to me, I've taken it as a parameter for the most important of all the points proposed, and otherwise all the laws in our agenda, 17 of them, I think they're extremely important for creating the ambience and creating conditions for the realization of the new National Security Strategy that is currently under way. As we know, the National Security Strategy was adopted in October 2009 and until we inaugurate and apply this strategy, it will be nearly 10 years. In those 10 years, I don't want to go into it and explain it wider, but many of the circumstances have changed both within the international community and in Serbia's international position and have not further changed to demand innovation or the creation of a new national security strategy. In addition to these laws being significant for new national security, police and private security laws are, I say, significant also as national security holders, but all these laws are important for both the security of the conditions and the fulfilment of the requirements ahead of us and concerning the times for which we will enter the EU. I, of all the things that are ahead of us, on the agenda, would especially like to give my personal commendation to the Ministry of the Interior for all the seriousness and importance of promotion and upgrade, precisely the law on private security. I think that's where the most progressed and, if you remember, when we first passed the Private Security Act and said that just the experience in its application would impose its upgrade and promotion. I think it was done in the maximum degree, especially when it was compared to the short time of its application, because it has been applied in fact since 01.01.2017, since in 2015, the changes and additions to its application have been moved to that date. I'd like to highlight some things besides many that these amendments and additions to this law have been done. I think that this law, which is before us, has provided the police force, but on the other hand, it has not succumbed and left an undefined field of work that would allow private security to be inserted, so to speak, into the detour, that is, the jurisdiction of the police. I think it's very good with the right measure done and done. It is very important that these laws are defined as very important in their contribution to terms and provisions and entities in this area, such as defining a responsible person, such as security interference particularly significant, such as the user of services, in particular the question of legitimacy, such as the director, such as the internal security service, self-protection, etc. More precisely arranged organisational and technical component of the exercise of activity and obligation of legal persons and entrepreneurs towards police authorities, such as control centres, as one, I underline, of the most significant things. A direct link has been strengthened and the spot-based notification of the police and their authorities of developments in the field and knowledge in the course of the work, which contributes to a much stronger range of police authorities and private security in action towards achieving the same objectives in the security plan. It is then the training and obligations of legal entities and entrepreneurs with training powers. It is all specified to the extent that better quality and professional private security personnel can be provided in this way. It is particularly important that supervision by the Ministry of the Interior is ultimately defined by the Ministry of Private Security, that it is elaborated and clearly defined and can ensure further improvement and quality of private security. The sanctioned sanctions, which is also one of the most important things, and in another way, the conditions for disciplined private security, because this is very important, given that they are in circulation, so to speak, in the private security sector, which short, which long tubes, counts from 60,000 to 100,000 pieces. There's a lot of things that could still be listed as being promoted, but I'd like to throw an accent on two things that haven't been found in the amendments to this law, or in this new law, and I think they're very important and I think it's probably, I guess, that's what the minister is going to say, but there's probably not enough components or arguments to define two things to the end. The first issue is the status of foreigners as legal entities and entrepreneurs in the area of private security. I have to say here, the more a man thinks about getting more and more convictions, and I think we're going to have to solve this big issue, which is to exclude foreigners from the private security sector as legal entities, that is, entrepreneurs. I don't want to think about it right now, but it's a very securityly delicate issue of their existence in the sector, especially in the immediate threat of war or in the danger of war, given that there are so many thousands and tens of thousands of weapons in their hands. The second thing that has not been defined and is likely to have to be defined is the question of opening opportunities and conditions for including active police officers in private security in the so-called. Free time. I think when it comes to cops, they must, regardless of the specificities of the job, have the same rights as, say, health care professionals. Why can health care professionals go to private clinics in their spare time and work without a policeman being able to provide in his spare time in such a way as to do private security work? I think these two things will surely follow and have to be trained in the next amendments and additions to this law. When it comes to the Police Act, it's one of the most significant factors in national security. The new national security strategy of the sea, we'll see what, as far as I know, it is now in the stage of the draft, that is, preparing the proposal, and we'll see what's in it, but you probably know what, when it comes to changing and supplementing, I think it must, in parallel to its completion and activation, mean, putting into service, that changes and additions must be made to not say many laws, probably some new laws in the security system, or in the security system, in the defense system, and go as close as possible to time can be applied simultaneously with the strategy. In this context, it is very important, when it comes to new strategies, that I call it, the transformation of the interior ministry, among other things, on the basis of greater synergy and fruit with a counterintelligence component in the national security system. Otherwise, in the security-intelligence system, cardinal innovations should occur on the organisational and operational technical plan, and in the direction of centralised or unification and in the direction of self-indulgence, on the other hand, regrouping and new forms of action, which we cannot discuss more widely here, given that the public is involved. In the new amendments and additions to this Police Act, I think there must be a wider procedure, to say the same thing, but I understand that what is now being treated, and the minister said, as changes and supplements, that it was mostly about wages, that it was inevitable to arrange to be able to make these next changes and additions to the system, particularly additions and changes concerning the position and status of members of the police and the MUP. Because these new changes and additions will also dictate a new strategy, which will produce the inevitable and transformation of other state bodies. In the course of further addition of this law, I should have a special accent, i.e. I will only mention a few questions – the issue of security checks on the mechanism such as control mechanisms and reviewing security checks, then, the use of means of coercion, the notification of rights, where we come into contact with constitutional provisions, etc., the keeping of arms in the apartment, the responsibility of police in conduct, a minor as a perpetrator, and as a protector, seems an extremely important and important subject, given that juvenile crime is at all an increase. Then, forming a central database on complaints from citizens on police work. Then, psychological prevention and health care at the police station. An exceptional segment that imposes the need to strengthen the health sector in the police. We know what the number is. Then, keeping weapons out of working time in the light of domestic violence, rationalising personnel, because there is a possibility of politicisation in this process, internal police control and the role of police in the development of the same in society, the overall healing of institutions for the fight against corruption and organised crime, etc., etc. Finally, to say, if I am near the end, and I am, that the PUPS parliamentary group in the day we adopt these laws will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48089	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48090	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, today we have a set of extremely important legislative proposals to be supported by the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party in the voting day. In line with the time for the discussion that I have at my disposal, I will mostly refer to the proposals of the security law, while the other draft laws and the election of judges and deputy public prosecutor will be discussed by my fellow MPs in a later debate. Starting with the necessity of each responsible society to continuously work towards improving its degree of resilience to threats and threats to disasters, as well as the fact that threats of this species in the last decade are growing at global level, when they can be expected to increase in the coming period, it is necessary to review the needs and opportunities to improve the existing system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Serbia. The existing system was established on the principles defined by the Emergency Law, which laid the foundations for its construction, as a single system identified entities and system forces and defined the position and role of all entities of the system by the Government through competent state authorities and institutions, to individuals. This system faces major challenges and, for example, The flood that took place in the Republic of Serbia in May 2014, in proportions not recorded in the last 120 years, has endangered the lives, health and property of more than a million and a half people who account for more than 20% of Serbia's population. The flood has endangered large scales and destroyed property of greater value, making it impossible for businesses, schools and other educational institutions, health institutions, social protection institutions and other entities in flooded areas, especially the smooth work of the Republic of Serbia's energy system. A large number of people, military and police members, other professional organisations, as a large number of citizens, not only those whose property was threatened, but also other citizens, volunteers, were engaged in the resolution of the consequences. In order to save the lives of people and property of greater value, the government took the appropriate measures, which were necessary. Because of all of this, the basic goals that are seeking solutions in the bill of law ahead of us, i.e. on the draft law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, are primarily in the overall normisation of preventive measures and activities in order to reduce the risk of disasters, to respond effectively in the event of disasters, as well as to remove their consequences more effectively, in order to ensure the recovery and normalisation of living conditions and work in the affected area as quickly as possible. The bill will create the necessary normative conditions for more effective implementation of protection against natural and other disasters, which will contribute to increasing the level of security of all citizens. To increase the level of security of citizens, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, whose consistent application by all specialised state institutions, will be defended by the great social danger of violence at sports events. Preventing violence and misbehaving necessarily calls for the adoption of the above-mentioned Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, since the adoption of these legal changes will largely enable, primarily the MUP and the judicial authorities, to successfully combat the occurrences of violence and misbehaving in relation to sports events, and to enable the rights of fans and sports fans to feel safe and to enjoy sports events. Speaking of the MUP, I would like to commend the fact that in the previous period, it has implemented a series of activities within the reform process which lays the foundation for a unique and functional system of work and organisations. The first of the significant steps on this trip was the adoption of the 2016 Police Act and its amendments this year. The law on police has recognised and adopted the concept of separation in the ministry of police and home affairs and separation of employees to police and state officials. The law on police and sublegal acts adopted in accordance with it sought to protect the specificity of police officers' and police services, which introduced a system of career progress by building a professional and transparent system of evaluation, education, training, improvement of health and psychological assistance. The team achieves a strategic commitment that the police service be a hierarchical organisation based on the aforementioned system of progress, allowing it to be brought closer to modern police systems. Following the concepts of setting up on the basis of the Police Act, it was necessary to adapt the pay system in an adequate way to accompany reform activities and to complete the process in the ministry. First of all, according to the above problems, the aim of these changes is to establish a system that will provide the same salary for the same work. The law on detective activity was passed in December 2013, which established a legal framework in this area in the Republic of Serbia. Until then, the system within which detective activity was carried out existed in practice, but without an adequate legal framework. In view of this, it is known that the subject matter of the area is to be regulated and placed under control by the State, with a clear definition of the rights and obligations of the entities in this activity and adequate sanctions for non-compliance with the prescribed obligations. In the previous period of application of the law, space was observed for the improvement of the established system, as well as certain shortcomings that needed to be addressed, which could not be foreseen in detail when proposing the basic text of the law. After an analysis of the situation in law and practice and experience gained in previous years in the application of the law, amendments and additions have been proposed to allow the law to be applied in full capacity while at the same time improving police treatment in relation to responsibilities under the Law on Detective Action. The proposed changes will significantly improve legal predictability and security, thus establishing a security check and a security disturbance, as well as a clearer and more precise arrangement of rights and obligations when controlling both supervised entities and police officers. Also, given that the law dates back to 2013 it was necessary to comply with the provisions governing the general legal procedure and the protection of personal data. The definition of amending and supplementing the law will make a significant contribution to the clear definition of the rights and obligations and obligations of the entities in this, or the security sector, as well as to the improvement of the work of police officers of the Ministry to enforce the law, in particular to improve the efficiency of monitoring. The private security law was adopted in 2013 and the amendments to this law in 2015 delayed its application until 1 January 2017. On the basis of a comprehensive analysis of the results of the application of the Private Security Act in the previous period, certain shortcomings in the work of the Private Security Sector have been identified, which need to be removed by precision of certain provisions and by improving existing solutions in the law, in order to enable them to be applied more effectively. In fact, the problems in the application of this law have been partly caused by discrepancies with general regulations governing work and working relations, administrative procedure, security of public gatherings, or sports events, insufficiently defined conditions for the application of the powers of official security, firearms management and other means of coercion. The Ministry of the Interior in practice creates problems and an insufficiently clearly regulated way of controlling and controlling private security, as well as a discrepancy of criminal provisions with the dispositions in the law. Also, in one part of the law, there is a termological discrepancy with international and Serbian standards in the area of private security. However, despite the shortcomings observed through the application of the Private Security Act, a well-efficient private security system has been established. In order to improve the work of the Private Security Sector, to bring work into line with the standards of work in this area, to reduce the part of the unnecessary obligations of this sector, to improve the work of the MUP in the implementation of supervision and to create conditions for the education of professional accredited working bodies to carry out the tasks of harmonisation of technical and other standards in the work of private security, amendments and additions of the Private Security Act are necessary. When we talk about voluntary fire, we need to realize that this area is not entirely regulated by any law of the Republic of Serbia, and that it is an area which is important to implement fire protection, to save people and property, to prevent the prevention of technical and technological accidents and elemental disasters, it was necessary to define and regulate precisely, given that it is a matter of serious substance. What is good is the fact that in our country there is a highly developed tradition of voluntary fire, which needs to be strengthened and developed to form an integral part of the system of support to the competent authority in preventing the emergence and mitigation of the consequences, primarily the dangers of fire, but also other types of dangers. What I would ultimately like to point out is the fact that the proposal for this law affirms voluntary fire among young people, that the establishment of youth clubs, as well as the obligation for units of local self-government to establish different incentive measures for members of voluntary fire departments, is envisaged to further motivate citizens to access such a form of organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48091	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48092	Dear Vice-President, respected minister, Minister Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the ruling majority with the SNS has once again managed to prevent a serious debate on very important laws, laws concerning restrictions on the rights of citizens to the reduction, which should lead to a reduction of corruption by bringing 24 points of the agenda together into one, of which 17 laws were very important, and of which 16 points came by an urgent procedure in this parliament four or five days ago. You scheduled a session Thursday for Tuesday, only there's no time for anyone to prepare to talk about these laws. That was not enough for you and you managed to submit 360 amendments to the first four members of the law proposed by Minister Stefanovic. The Serbian Progressive Party proposes 360 amendments to four members of the first law. Why are you doing this? Not because we couldn't discuss these laws, but to prevent citizens from seeing the debate in this House and to see what it is that the government is preparing for citizens through the proposed laws. How will you prevent the fight against corruption? How will you limit citizens' rights? So you're hiding from the citizens what you're proposing, and that's why you won't allow a debate in the Assembly. That's why I won't talk about the laws proposed by Minister Stefanovic, because I didn't have time to read them, they came four days ago, but I will talk about the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice. The aim of these laws should be to reduce corruption. The aim of the measures and recommendations should be to reduce corruption in this country that eats up this society. By 2012, until the arrival of SNS to power, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was also established, independent regulatory bodies were established, Citizens' Protector, Personal Data Protection Commissioner. Since then, to this day, not that you haven't promoted any of these institutions, and it takes their promotion, because in practice it's been shown for these six-seven years that there are things that need to be improved, you've done the opposite work to bring these institutions down. You've trampled all these institutions. You stepped on it by bringing people close to the political party in power to the leaders, and you know very well that you did. You know who the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency is? The man who financed the SNS campaign. Do you really think that someone who financed the SNS campaign can control reports on the financing of political parties or control reports filed by lobbyists? It is mentioned GRECO today and that one of the recommendations of GREECE is to pass a law on lobbying. That's right, GRECO made 13 recommendations in 2015, three years ago. Not one has been fulfilled to this day. You haven't fulfilled a recommendation in three years. Their 2017 report says - unsatisfactory application of recommendations and writes - Serbia's return in the fight against corruption. Gentlemen, we are back in the fight against corruption, which is the biggest problem of this society. Why did you not adopt any recommendation from the European Commission, no recommendation from GREC, no recommendation from the OSCE? Because you don't really want Serbia to develop like developed European countries. You are resisting all forces to meet the standards in this country that exist in EU countries, which exist in Western democracies. Declaratively speaking, you are for the EU, and basically you just want some point to be checked that it is filled on the way to the EU. For you action plan, strategy, absolutely have nothing to do with it. Paper suffers everything and you don't care what it says, you know that what it says doesn't have to be passed, and even if you pass a law, you won't apply that law if it doesn't suit you. We had a conversation here yesterday with Mr. Hookan, so what did he say? The laws in Serbia and those adopted are not applicable. We will not reach the EU at this pace by 2025. Gentlemen, in 2011, we achieved candidate status. You came to power in 2012; 14 years since then we will not be able to join the EU. Why? Because you're not doing anything on this plan, and because everything that is brought forward is brought under the pressure of the EU and the European Commission, when you get to the end, then you have to pass the lobby law, and in fact, you don't share those values. You don't want it and you'll resist it as much as you can. What's the consequence? The result is that citizens are leaving Serbia. Where are they going? They go to EU countries and Western democracies, 60,000 per year leave Serbia, 40,000 are less born, 100,000 have fewer each year. In 10 years, there will be a million fewer people in Serbia. Is that what you want? Well, I live in this country, my children live in Serbia, and we have no intention of giving up on making Serbia a normal state. We want to introduce the standards that exist in those countries where citizens go, that they exist in Serbia, that no one else leaves this country. The precondition for fighting corruption is an independent judiciary, a strong prosecutor's office. Which message is sent by the Justice Ministry when it says - we propose that amendments to the Constitution introduce five out of ten members of the High Council of the judiciary to elect the Assembly. It is a message that five politicians will sit in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, five elected by the SNS, who are enough to have a law school, can be close strangers. They'll keep picking judges. Gentlemen, we can do this much faster. Please submit a proposal to the SNS' main board. Don't make fun of us, we don't need the Assembly, you don't need the High Judicial Council. Now you have a member from the Assembly and a minister in that body. You're bringing in five politicians now. You're doing the same thing in the D.A.'s Council of Prosecutors. So it's a direct message that the judiciary will be completely politicized, politicized by the Constitution, and there's no independent judiciary, it's going to be worse than it is today. You're putting us in line with those suggestions. The lobbying law should prevent corruption. This law, as you have proposed, will not prevent corruption, because first of all it does not affect how individual decisions are being lobbyed and how decisions are being made on whom jobs are being assigned in this country, in which way it allows political parties' finances to realise their private interests. Why didn't you define non-formal lobbying laws? Why didn't you define that lobbying reports are submitted to the agency and the agency to publish it to the public, that we know what it was about? There's no filing those reports to the public. The report comes to the director of the agency, and the director of the agency was an official SNS campaign funder. So, this law not that it's not complete, but you won't reduce corruption at all, because informal lobbying that isn't regulated will be dominant in the coming period. The Personal Data Protection Act. The law, like constitutional amendments, is ten times worse than the current law. Why is it burning? Because it's inaccurate, because it's unclear, because it's incomprehensible and ultimately completely inadmissible. No one, I don't know if you understand that laws are passed for citizens. So, an average citizen when he reads that law, he has to understand what it says, because it concerns his rights and, more importantly, the limitations of his rights. I, as a lawyer, don't understand what the law says. I'm sure the minister, who proposes the law, also doesn't understand what the law says. The trustee said he didn't know what the law said either. I'll quote you Article 40. It states, dear citizens, the following – Rights and obligations under Articles 21, 23, 24, 26, Articles 29 to 31, Articles 33 to 36, to 39, and Articles 53, as well as Article 5 of this Act, if those provisions relate to the exercise of the rights and obligations laid down in Articles 21, 23, 24, 26, Articles 29 to 31, Articles 33 and 36 to 39 of this Law, may be limited if those restrictions, etc. This is written so that no one can understand this. No one can understand this. It was never the text of a 63-page law in the Serbian Parliament, as if it had been written in another language. I think that many of the provisions of the European Parliament's decisions and directive were prescribed here, literally, or you didn't know how to translate them, so you used Google Translate and what Google Translate threw out, that's what you put into this law. This isn't the only member that can't be understood. You can't even understand a 6th member in which you have a negativity. No one can understand what it says here. But what you can understand from the position of the 2nd or 3rd member, which is that restrictions apply to citizens, but we don't know who can bring these restrictions. It doesn't say that these restrictions can be precise by law. If it were written by law, the restrictions would be brought by the Serbian Parliament, which are representatives of the citizens. You have introduced a provision that the Director of the BIA, that the head of a private security agency, a private detective agency, may decide to restrict citizens' rights in terms of protection of personal data. What does that mean? This means that you brought this provision 15 days after a BIA official said -- who is a threat to national security in this country, so says journalists, or media, trade unions, opposition politicians. It's a threat to national security. Now, all those who are a threat to national security can expect to have their personal data legally, the private lives of those people on the cover of "Informer". That's the law you're proposing. For these reasons, the SDS cannot vote, nor support any law, and we will be against all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48093	Thank you. (Alexander Markovic: Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48094	I thank the chairman. I highly appreciate your well-known tolerance when it comes to MPs. I must draw your attention that you have violated a 107 member who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. So, we've been here for 12 or 13 minutes, listening to the most terrifying, completely unfounded accusations at the expense of the SNS, and at the expense of the government, and to the president of the state, but from who do these accusations come from? They come from a man who is only known in his political engagement for his role in this famous, notorious, judicial reform. It's the only way citizens know him, the catastrophic reform of the judiciary. It's not an SNS rating, it's a Venice Commission assessment. The Venice Commission assessed judicial reform as catastrophic. He, and that Homen of his, and that of Malovic, and that of Bosko Ristic, destroyed the judiciary, while the head of their party destroyed the entire state. You promised 200,000 new jobs, so there weren't even 200,000 new jobs, but you left another 400,000 people out of work in your day. Says the famous resistance, he will fight for a better state, to fight for a better Serbia. Well, who stopped you for years while you were in power to fight for Serbia? Who stopped you from doing that? Who kept you from doing the one thing that was good for the country? But they didn't care at the time. At the time, they were only interested in making combinations, then they were interested in personal wealth, while the citizens were suddenly poor. That's why I think you needed a minimum warning to tell him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48095	I thank my colleague Markovic. If you have noticed, counterpart Konstantinovic said in his speech that we want to prevent a democratic debate and a democratic confrontation of opinion. I let him speak, used instead of 20, 12 minutes. Whether he's right or not, that's what the citizens are going to judge. Whether you're right or wrong, that's what the National Assembly is saying in the voting day. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48096	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am touched by the speech of a colleague who spoke of corruption. There are no people who understand corruption better, and I'm advertising Article 103 106, 108, 109, and I believe, regardless of your tolerance, that you could say some of the terms of Articles 108 and 109. They understand corruption best. When we crashed Sasa Jankovic's regime, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, who were part of the regime in our time in 2000, I was arrested with three flyers, and next to me with a bag of money from Segedin just passed by a colleague who had just spoken. He's with a bag of money from Segedin to Belgrade at home, and I'm with three fliers in police custody. So I believe he's very qualified to talk about corruption, because with corruption he went into politics. We go to your apartment in Curuvia to get shirts, fist-resistant shirts, he says -- he doesn't have what you think, no shirts, this-this thing, and to justify that bag of money, the next day he announces that 100,000 T-shirts are gone, and I don't know how much propaganda material, etc., as if they printed it out and disappeared, and since they didn't even have a print, so all the money ended up in their private pockets. As a political party, they are experts in corruption, and I must remind him that in Serbia, the fight against corruption is again eroding, and you know why? Because you've fallen from power, so there's less of it, I'm not saying there isn't, but there's less of it 10 times than there was in you. As for the judiciary, you chose a dead man as judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48097	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The right to a replica, the authorised representative of the SNS, since the SNS has been mentioned several times, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48098	Here, just like last night on one RTS show and today, I'm trying to be maximum tolerance and listen to the conversation, listen to the facts and what I didn't get last night, and that's to point out how many lies are being pronounced to convince the people that it's true. I agree that we need the dialogue stronger and that we need to strengthen dialogue, it is necessary for every society. And how do we strengthen dialogue, if you ever get a chance to tell lies? And when I have to answer as others in the dialogue that it's a lie, the facts to convince you to tell the truth, you don't give me space. Now, this is where the previous speaker convinced us that these laws were bad, and if he had been in the O.R. today's session, he would have seen that all the representatives of the opposition parties said that the laws were very, very good. A small number of grudges he's got, minors lexic. There are no fundamental grudges, that's what many others have said who have commented on these laws. Now, you can play with the public, so you can talk like the previous speaker said and say, "I really don't understand this." First, it's a shame that someone who's had a lawyer's office for so long says he doesn't understand some bill, he's acting crazy, but if he's acting crazy for a congregation speaker, then I insult all those who follow this session and whose representative I am. It's absolutely clear everything in laws and suggestions how it works, but it's convenient for exposure. About the fact that our choice of judges and prosecutors was bad and that this judiciary worked badly, so that's all your judges and prosecutors, and that's why we have a problem with what the D.A.'s doing, what the data is on the ground, everyone takes down and can't get most of the cases back and can't get into the judicial procedure. Just one thing, how did you choose judges and prosecutors? The president of the Democratic Party of Vlasotanc writes to the president of SO Vlasotince and gives him a list of similar people with a detailed description of what to do with that man. This has been published to you in the media, what about what doesn't get into the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48099	The word has a proposalary representative, Minister Nela Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48100	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that someone I thought was a good lawyer says he doesn't understand the text of the bill, but he may have a chance to get to know each other better, so he doesn't say it later. When it comes to the political impact on the process of electing judges and the amendment made by the Ministry of Justice over the past year, I must first of all point out that you never had such a transparent process of passing any act, and above all the Constitution that lasted since May last year. And what is most important is that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have committed to fully respecting the opinion and recommendations of the Venice Commission in the process of amending the Constitution. The Venice Commission, the bodies of the Council of Europe, which is the only relevant one to assess whether any act concerning a judicial organisation, the authorities are similar, or whether it is in accordance with European standards or not. I'll remind you that you've had a lot of meetings alone with the Venice Commission 2008/2009. the year you sent proposals to the Venice Commission on the selection of judges and prosecutors, when you filed provisions that were subsequently deleted and did not appear in the adoption procedure in the Republic of Serbia. When it was filed with the Venice Commission that any judge who is dismissed would have the right to appeal for a decision that has been made, and later, behold, miracles, those provisions were absolutely not when the rule was adopted. You are talking about political influence, and you forget that in 2008, the first members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary were elected solely on political criteria. You talk about the period and the influence of the political election of judges, and you forget that at that time very often guests of the Ministry of Justice. Today, there is absolutely no MP or representative of any political party coming to the Justice Ministry to determine that the choice of judges or deputy public prosecutors will be made. It is very strange to mention a relationship of five to five, that someone will exert political influence on the election of five lawyers by the National Assembly. Obviously, you did not see well that there should be a two-thirds majority in order for the National Assembly to select future members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. But we will likely have the opportunity to discuss the Constitution and amendments when they come to order and if the National Assembly in general adopts an initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into the process of amending the Constitution. What is certain and responsible I can also claim as a member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, that today judges and deputy public prosecutors and public prosecutors are not elected as members or subjects of the relevant political party, that today our coalition partners do not condition survival in power whether any judge or deputy public prosecutor will be elected, which took place in 2008. And this is very visible, because it was found in the Supreme Council of the Judiciary itself when certain members of the Supreme Council were exempt from the selection process of individual judges, believing that they were under political influence and that they were on the list of relevant political parties. When we talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, it is not on the agenda today, but I believe that it will be soon in the Assembly, given that we have respected all the recommendations of GRECA, we respect the analysis of the experts of the Greeks and it will be fully in line with what is required of us, and that is to respect the recommendations of all 13 recommendations that you yourself have stated to be in the GRECO report. I am very surprised that you mention the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and I would remind you that we have a director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that we have a very suspicious purchase of the Anti-Corruption Agency building, that we have had very frequent budgetary inspections at the Anti-Corruption Agency, that the director who you chose had double daily payments when going to Strasbourg and by the Republic of Serbia from the budget, but also from the Council of Europe. I've never heard of such objections to the work of today's director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. What I want to point out, and apparently you haven't dealt with enough with the text of the law, about lobbying. You're talking about lobbying for individual acts. Lobbying refers exclusively to the adoption of general acts, as will the adoption of laws. If someone lobbys to make an individual decision, it is still a criminal offense and cannot be mentioned at all about lobbying and introducing lobbying into legal flows. So I'd like you to be a little bit more informed, and it's not just about formal lobbying, if you read the bill yourself, you'll see that it's also about unregistered lobbyists, and the official has an obligation, and in case there's contact with unregistered lobbyists, that he also reports it to the Anti-Corruption Agency and draws up a report on it. The recommendations of GREECE concern, above all, the preventive action in the fight against corruption, and the majority of these recommendations refer precisely to the amendment of the Constitution, so that there is no confusion of the public that the recommendations of the repressive character are, above all, preventive and are related to the adoption of the law, the fight against corruption, constitutional changes which are precisely related to the process of electing judges and prosecutors, which implies that this election procedure is removed from the Assembly and I believe that soon, in the coming months, we will have exactly the opportunity to adopt constitutional amendments, and that we also meet these recommendations without whose adoptions can certainly not be fully met. And, again, I am going back to the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and Article 40 where you are calling for the opinion of the Trustees, the opinion of the Commissioner who was not delivered in the submission of an official opinion to the Ministry of Justice on the text of a provision that has existed since December 2017, which was published on the website of the Ministry of Justice, so there is another incorrect information that someone changed the text without delay a month ago, following the maintenance of a forum. What is important is that this law, i.e. the Law on Lobbying, is just designed to limit the rights of citizens when processing data, only the Law on the Protection of Personality Data can limit that right, which is stated in the law itself. That, too, is the same provision of the Data Protection Act on the Protection of Persons in accordance with Article 23. The regulation, which has been assessed by the European Commission and which has been said to be fully in line with European standards. So I'd like the trustee to have responded in time, perhaps, and pointed to some inconsistencies that are now being called upon and claimed to be unconstitutional. Again, I repeat, the Constitutional Court is the only one who appreciates whether one law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I find it very strange to appreciate the constitutionality of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48101	Right on line, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48102	So I'm certainly not going to respond to those ridiculous attacks that 10 years ago something was like this or something. You've been saying that for six years, in the absence of any arguments, that someone else is always guilty. It's just that you forget that in 2012, you came to power. You've had seven years to change. Why didn't you cancel the High Council of Justice? Why didn't you cancel the Anti-Corruption Agency? Why don't you remove the Commissioner for Equality, the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection? All of it brought before you, all of it denied to work. It's not good for the trustee's opinion, because he didn't deliver it in time. I don't know when he gave you the report and the opinion, but that opinion exists in public and someone who needs to apply and control the application of that law says the law is wrong. Therefore, if it is not good for the Commissioner, it will not be good for the citizens either. As for the amendments to the Constitution, you mentioned two-thirds of the need in the Assembly to agree on who will be members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Well, anyway, as much as most people agree, that means that political people have been elected because they are elected in the Assembly. The recommendation is not to change the Constitution up, it is recommended that the Constitution be changed for the better. The fact that it wasn't good in the Constitution that was brought by the compromise that the SRS was involved in at the time, it should change now, not bring it up now. The minister, out of 10 members, five will be elected by the Assembly. All five politicians are about to graduate law school. What else do we have to talk about? Five will be politicians. What does the Venice Commission think, read in those reports, but what do the citizens think? Why are you bringing us a solution that is worse than the present one? Well, it doesn't start the world from you. We have a situation in this country, which is that we have two political representatives in that body. Why are you bringing in five instead of throwing out those two now? Why should the DVT be four from the Assembly, plus Minister Five, plus the Supreme Prosecutor, six elected in the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48103	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48104	If we're going to apply the logic that you've just presented, the VSS and the DVT are completely political bodies, because all 11 members and one and the other, are elected by the National Assembly, and the six members of the line of judges who are proposing the VSS must be approved by the National Assembly, which means that these candidates, or judges, are the deputies sitting here with us, precisely politicians, and that they fully justify what you said. What is important and what citizens need to know, that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft constitutional amendments, which are fully in line with European standards, in line with the opinion of the Venice Commission. And that's not what I'm saying, but after the public debates that took place in several circles and after receiving an opinion in June, we again sent the Venice Commission the text where we received confirmation that we were absolutely harmonised and even selecting members of the VSS, qualified by the majority, which according to European standards is currently leading to depolitisation. The Ministry of Justice fully respected, and I would like you to have had an opinion and confirmation when you adopted the Constitution in 2006 that you are in line with European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48105	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48106	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, I say in advance, I do not ask to vote, because of the dignity of the National Assembly and the need to speak the truth. Of course, absolutely everything is true from the first to the last word, everything is true in this attitude that you have heard now, which the minister put out. So that's quite clear, and that should be said loudly so that we wouldn't be in a situation here if we had to ask ourselves what's true. What the Venice Commission thinks, she said, that it is according to the standards they consider good, she already said, that it is better or worse, each has the right to own opinion, but I think that it is literally playing with the citizens of Serbia and with the MPs to listen to whether it should be two or five, whether it is three more than four, etc., and from the people whose only principle is, but listen well, the only principle of choice was the following, the opinion signed by the President of the Municipal Committee of the Party to whom it belongs and the President of the So, two colleagues, party friends and those in their opinion when they make a recommendation for someone, they say the following, listen well, this and that, a proposal for a public prosecutor, fair and valuable, on the part of the observed, not corrupt, professional, experienced, long-term sympathiser of our party, rejected all criminal applications to the officials of our party's municipal board, the son is a member of our party's attention and a chance to advance. He's interested in the Deputy Special Court or the D.A.'s Office. When a man is so highly qualified, and belongs to their party, then he deserves to be signed by the president of the Municipal Committee, and besides the signature and stamp he puts it nicely, so he signs the president of the SO, and he seals it nicely and sends it to someone for execution. These were the only standards and the only criteria. And that today a man shows up and says -- he needs two, he needs five, less or more political ones. Who are you kidding? If you're really worried about citizens, do you think they don't understand this? They've made it very clear how well they understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48107	Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement? No, I don't. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48108	I thank the chairman. Article 27 and Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, given that it is imputed here by opposition MPs, that the election of the VSS after the adoption and adoption of constitutional amendments is something that implies political influence on the VSS, and I only have to ask one question, to which it is obvious that one who makes an objection, which is counterpart Konstantinovic, did not give an answer and thus led Serbian citizens astray. Who's gonna pick a new VSS? Who is this institution, who is this authority, who will choose the new 10 members of the VSS? (Gordana Comic: Judges, all judges.) ) Who is the judge and who is all the judge, if we have five of those to choose, or to propose the Assembly, and who will choose the first convocation, answer, gentlemen, who will choose the first meeting, the future VSS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48109	A colleague of Jovanovic, please, without a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48110	In order not to be lewd, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is rudely offended here, and is rudely offended by that and the Republic of Serbia, noting that it rests on the constitution, when it comes to its state-run arrangement. And, politics when it comes to the Constitution, constitutional changes, indeed, Mr Arsic, you should not tolerate and draw attention to those who are trying to question, with pulsism and politics, something that is absolutely constitutional and legal and ultimately only possible in the future, that you do not do so. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48111	You have no right to a replica, colleague Konstantinovic. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Ana Stevanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48112	Thank you. The pro-EU coalition, consisting of a number of relevant NGOs, published the latest independent report on Serbia's progress in implementing policies in the field of justice and fundamental human rights, as well as freedom of justice. It is Chapter 23, as well as Chapter 24. The report contains an assessment of the political criteria for the EU accession process and meeting the criteria for the period from April to September this year. What's the matter here? The main finding of the report is that key reforms are stagnating or even turning back and that stagnation is largely justified by the EU accession process. If the EU stresses the rule of law as a reform priority, the executive and legislative authorities in Serbia abuse the accession negotiations process and the fact that there are currently concessions in Serbia when it comes to the reform programme to end dialogue with Pristina that has high hopes. For example, attempts to adopt a series of laws where each one is worse than the one that exists. This is stated in this report. Even after the adoption of the minimum standards of the Venice Commission's comment, the proposed constitutional amendments do not meet the criteria for creating preconditions for a judiciary that will be independent and free from political influences. A dramatic example is the draft law on information of public importance that will limit citizens' rights to be informed about the work of state-owned enterprises, while the draft law on free legal assistance will jeopardise the rights of persons using services and organisations that already provide legal assistance. The situation is alarming, and we also conclude it based on this report that I've just quoted parts of it. When we talk about the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, it is another law in a series of laws that adopts this National Assembly assembly, which this time violates the Constitution guaranteeing citizens' right to the protection of personal data, which, moreover, is not respected by EU rules, which are tirelessly pursued by this authority. The laws adopted by the ruling majority last week continue to be chaos, for example, in the area of construction, creating exceptions to rules, and from rules of exception. This time you seem to be doing something worse. This time you create chaos in the lives of citizens of this country, whose constitution guarantees protection of personal data, this law restricts undefined and unmistakable provisions that thus open up a space for abuse by anyone who owns data of citizens who are not publicly available. In Article 40, you state ten grounds on which rights and obligations can be limited. Given the experience of how widely you interpret concepts, such as national security, defence, other important general and public interests, public security and others, we cannot help but be concerned about such a law, and we ask you justifiably – where is your limit to the violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Really, where's the end? I have to ask you why you have thrown out of the bill a provision that the restriction can only be carried out in accordance with the law? Do you know that this violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as international standards governing the protection of personal data? Why did you disobey the Commissioner's request to amend this law? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia want to live in an orderly country, not in a secret service and blackmail country. If this law is passed, we fear that Pandora's box will be opened, and the consequences of our society will be inconceivable. If that is not your goal, but it is a mistake, then you will adopt an amendment that has been submitted by the MP group enough. Otherwise, we will vote against this law, which is the moral obligation of every honest and decent man. One of the laws we will also discuss is the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. The MPs' group enough was considered to be an important law, but that the proposed changes were either cosmetic or non-applicable in practice or that these changes put private interest above the public. We have concluded that the proponent of this law has put a private interest above the public interest, which should be an unquestionable priority. In order for the citizens to understand what this is all about, I'll give you a few examples. The promoter, namely, introduces a commitment to the organizer of sports events, therefore, and to the state as organizers of such events, to hire a legal person or entrepreneur to do private security work. In the position that precedes this position, such an obligation is not defined, but there is a possibility of a choice between an independent director's service, educated by the organisers, and these other options mentioned earlier. The supplements are explained by harmonising this law with the Private Security Act. So the public interest is subordinated to private interests. The law that satisfys private interests is also passed on to this law, which obliges the organisers of the events in question to hire a legal person or an entrepreneur to carry out private security tasks. Why not leave the freedom to, and in these cases, the organizer himself organizes his own office as defined by the previous position of this member? Who in this way is provided with additional work and generates additional costs for the organizers, or the state, and thus for the citizens of our country? Therefore, the costs of hiring private companies for private security jobs in certain sports events organised by the state, the Autonomous Region or local self-government will be borne by our citizens. We'll remind you that the state has no money for free textbooks, which is a matter I've been proposing for years, but apparently it has for private companies dealing with security matters. Another example of undermining private interest, in this case of the interest of cheerleading groups, can be found in the deleted position of the law prohibiting the reselling of tickets, as well as in the deleted attitude that provides for penalties for such a violation. Such a change will correspond most to criminal fan groups who, by reselling cards that they received at favourable prices, earn additional profits. We must ask ourselves, then, what is the objective of this law – whether to suppress violence or reward violent behavior? Furthermore, the promoter believes that by preciseing the distance at which alcohol should not be sold or consumed near sports facilities, it will prevent violence, i.e. riots in stadiums. This cosmetic change won't change anything. Introducing the idea of an air line and the place where the distance counts is for a mockery, not to be commended. How will a distance of 300 meters be proved by an air line? Odocative method? No one will ever be punished for this. It is not essential to prohibit alcohol in the vicinity or in the stadium, or sports hall. For example, in stadiums or in halls in the United States, you can drink alcohol freely without anyone spying on you or interrogating you. You don't have any restraining order. Why don't they have a problem with stadium violence in the U.S.? If the state is going to solve this problem as a betting problem, which illegally zeros like mushrooms 100 metres from primary and secondary schools, it can freely give up on this. To make it clear to the citizens why these changes will not have a positive effect on the current state of affairs, I will give you some statistics. In 2016, the Republic Statistics Office counted 123 registered persons, including minors and minors, due to violent behaviour at a sports event. Only one person was reported in Belgrade. The numbers are higher if the general violent behavior is considered. Then we see that just over 1800 people have been reported in Serbia, and in Belgrade close to 400. Penalty policy is mild and has no appropriate effect, as convictions are mostly conditional. In 2016, as many as 81 out of 121 persons were sentenced for violent behavior at a sports event. Prison sentence isn't common. Last year, 20 people went to jail for sports violence. It's a small number of bans against attending matches compared to a large number of incidents. Moreover, the measure is not executed properly. According to the MUP, in Serbia 188 hooligans have been punished by the ban on attending certain sports events and there is no known number of hooligans who have violated the safeguards, but some known hooligans have been seen at matches, regardless of the ban. The court is not interested in carrying out the measure, because it does not deliver the verdict on its own, but at the request of the police. The court does not respond to police notification of non-execution of presence, and for the time being in Great Britain, a life-long ban has been issued on attending sports matches due to Nazi salutation. It is necessary for the National Council to take these problems seriously to prevent negative phenomena in sport and require a serious response from sports organisations, police, prosecutors and the judiciary. To begin with, it is necessary to regulate the work of directors, train them quality and consider professionalizing this profession. The prohibition of presence must be carried out in practice. Prosecutors and judges should attend matches, especially high-risk ones, so that offenders are immediately prosecuted and convicted of violations. The resolution of mob killings is one of the key factors in reducing crime and increasing security perception. In addition to a clear policy of reducing the settlement, it is necessary for the prosecution to take the lead in conducting investigations that so far exist only on paper. In the assessment of the risk of violence in sports, sports organizers need to participate, but, of course, the police do. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, a question for all of you – how can someone expect there to be no violence, when criminals are free to walk the streets? We've had court proceedings for years. That's what we're all witnesses to. How many times have you heard that the perpetrator of a crime is well-known to the police? How can we expect there to be no violence, and on television, in newspapers, every day to promote violence and present itself as socially acceptable behavior? Changes in this matter should primarily go in the direction of strict application of existing norms and more aggressive policies to punish wrongdoers at sports events. "Enough has been enough" will vote against these laws and proposed changes, as they essentially do not change things for the better. We need to establish order. Now I'd like to say a few words about the law on free legal aid. The proposal for a way to finance free legal aid under which local self-government units are obliged to provide funds for free legal assistance provided by lawyers in these units of local self-government and 50% for the free legal assistance services provided by lawyers, public notebooks and mediators, acts unrealisticly, especially when it takes into account the fact that 30% of municipalities in Serbia are undeveloped and that they receive their budgets from the republican budget. Does the state know that local self-governments, which are otherwise financially poor, will pay for these services? A similar situation occurred with the Social Protection Act, which has shifted social protection services to local level, leaving the possibility of dedicated transfers from a republican level for certain social security services at local level. Since the adoption of the Social Protection Act, in 2011, local self-government units have not greatly improved social protection services financed, although they are mandatory. There is a legitimate concern that the same will happen with this law, if a proposed solution from the draft of these laws is adopted and that lawyers, lawyers, public notebooks, mediators, will not provide services of free legal assistance in a narrow sense due to the lack of defined funds for this purpose in the budget of local self-government. Infringement of poor municipalities will only further worsen the poor material situation of these municipalities and will not achieve the purpose for which they are prescribed. The proposed solution is simply not financially sustainable. It would be more practical and economical for the state to form a fund from which these services will be financed. In addition to the pre-planned budget funds, it would also be charged with opportunity, payment of claims and by a non-supervisor or perpetrator of criminal offences, a certain percentage of the court fees, etc. The funds obtained from successfully completed disputes would also return to this fund. This lack needs to be removed, in order to ensure that citizens have the right to free legal assistance in order to meet the legal requirements. I would also refer to the issue of tariffs, which, according to this law, the government brings to the proposal of the minister. With this tariff, the government would prescribe at which price a lawyer or a public notary would provide legal assistance, in accordance with this law. Article 2 on law enforcement is defined as an independent and independent service to assist natural and legal persons. Given this definition, it is unimaginable that the government, as an executive authority, prescribes and assesses the work of lawyers and tariffs, values this same work. The better solution certainly represents the application of existing legal and public-book tariffs, with a reduction of a certain percentage. All three of Serbia's funds are required, in line with ratified international contracts, to establish. It would be more cellular and economical if it were one fund, which would have three different sub-accounts and would be filled from the same sources. The Fund could finance the service of free legal representation in the territory of the entire state, which is the most expensive and if the fund is managed by the principle of good host, it could finance the provision of free legal advice and submissions, which are cheaper and which could be paid at a flat rate. Each provider should be empowered to decide on the basis of clear criteria on which kind of free legal assistance will be provided to the applicant, by the right to free legal advice should be given to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their property status, as provided for in the objective of the Strategy for the Development of Free Legal Assistance in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48113	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48114	Thank you. As far as private security is concerned and related to the violence at sports events and everything we've been talking about today, I want to clarify a few important things. First of all, as to whether a natural or legal person will be involved in security, whether it will be a person who is a clerk or a legal person who performs a security job, certainly both must undergo training, that law and foresees, and to obtain work licenses on one or another business. Whether it will be enough to hire an independent security service as a director's service, which also goes through training, or whether it will be carried out by a legal person who has a license to perform such a type of activity, depends on the risk assessment. We're just witnesses, so there's no talking about anyone's private interest being forced, we just want to make all those involved in the organisation of sports events responsible. We have thousands of cases for everyone to expect... You know, hiring a police officer, one cop, costs money. It costs his time, his salary, his uniform, his equipment, his fuel, his vehicle. All that is paid, all of this costs us as citizens of Serbia, to provide events that, in some cases, are of someone's private interest, this sports event, where the organiser makes money from ticket sales, from television rights, etc. The police are under the Constitution and the law to ensure public order and peace. But according to the law, the organizers of sports events are obliged to apply all the measures to ensure that, since, according to the new Law on Public Assembly, where this is done in a closed space, they are no longer obliged to report these events, so they do not have to report, for example, a basketball game, simply, it takes place in a closed space, no gatherings that are out in the open, they are obliged to ensure the orderly departure and arrival of participants of the meeting, and these are legal obligations. We have predicted, since we have seen that in many cases it has been done in a way that it has not qualifiedly complied with those standards that are necessary for that order and peace to be secured and then eventually transferred to the police, we have predicted that, in addition to the licenses they are required to have, they must, by those estimates that, together with the Ministry of Interior, we are, of course, involved in those assessments, if the risk is found to be greater, then they are obliged to organise and include a legal person who has certain licences to perform that kind of work. You've had deputy prosecutors in stadiums for a long time, sometimes prosecutors themselves, and judges for violations, who act in the stadium itself. So it's been a long time practice, that they exist in the stadiums themselves, and that criminal penalties are imposed immediately. What is important and what I personally dissatisfied with may well be that. Of course, I can't influence the judges and determine what kind of punishment they're going to bring. I'd like those fines to be sharper. But it's on the judges. I'd like them to be sharper, really, because if someone were sent to jail for five, six, seven years, and then another time six, seven, eight, or 15 years in prison, he wouldn't have thought to show up at the stadium, let alone commit any crime. We were able to halve the number of crimes committed at the sports event itself. Today it's on an annual level, say, 171 to 175 in the last two years. It was 300, 400. Is 171 all right? It's not. What is good is that we have a large number of persons being processed, but what's seen as a problem, is that where there's room to be given a misdemeanor verdict, and later, by using the rule of not bis in I go, you have in fact that he's not responsible for a potential crime, he gets a felony, good-bye and pleasantly solved case. I'd like it if there weren't a pair of ankles, if there weren't no house arrests, if there wasn't any relief, a mitigation of punishment, but just giving up the maximum law, or close to the maximum, and then sending a signal that no one could run to the stadium, that no one on the field could light a torch near someone's face, such as, unfortunately, we've had these cases in the past, that nothing could happen. Also, attacking cops, I sometimes have a question, I don't know why this, why that. In a number of cases, we've had situations where cops throw those stone cubes at them, granite. These people are our friends, our brothers, our fathers, our neighbors, the people who live in our country, doing the hard work. When that cube hits them in the head, the hand, the leg, and makes them disabled, then nobody, on the other hand, thinks about it, and then complains about being searched by those people later, which is why we're being searched by the police. You people tried to kill a man. So that's where I agree, in that sense, I think we can step up our work. We are also working on the fact that, in fact, I expect fast and results, there are certain tasks in the fields and those who organise sports events and clubs and professional sports associations, and the prosecution and the police, all those who from their fields of work groups, within the framework of the Council for the Prevention of Violence at sports events, need to set those deadlines in a few weeks, to bring certain measures, which we will then see what else can be applied. We have a lot of good laws. We have a lot of good laws and there the Justice Department has made a good contribution in the sense that both through the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the last two years have made such an intensive legal framework convenient for the adoption of serious sanctions. Let me just make a little parallel. Today, we have the opportunity to punish someone for carrying arms or ammunition illegally for up to 12 years in prison. Have we ever heard of a sentence of 12 years in prison? We didn't. Unfortunately. If someone got 12 years in prison, I don't think anyone in their life would ever think about carrying a weapon illegally and taking it to the city for any event, anywhere, seriously thinking about it. If he thinks he's risking six months of parole or some minor prison sentence, which, I say, is limited or can be house arrest, then maybe he'll risk it, maybe he'll count on it - I'll try. What's good is that we're a large number of people, and since this sharp law came into force on June 1st last year, we're a number of people who are bigger than in the past just managed to bring in illegal weapons and get processed. Are we all satisfied with the speed of working in courts? We haven't, but the Justice Department, I have to commend my colleagues who have managed to reduce by 40% by one short time, 40% to reduce the number of court cases that have been abandoned, which were in the process and construction, when it's over next year, it'll correct me if I'm wrong, the Court of Justice will be over, we'll have more courts that will be able to do so. I mean, I also see that there are great efforts in one matter, one area, which is not easy to regulate without being accused or interfered in the work of the judiciary or accusing you of actually not doing your job, and then it's a very subtle and very difficult job in that sense. In the end, I want to say that I'm glad that you noticed that there are these calls for shooting, hanging, raping the prime minister, beating the press, that this is becoming a problem in public, and I'm glad you noticed that, and I totally agree with you that there is no such thing in public discourse.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48115	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48116	Thank you. As for the Law on Free Legal Assistance, I did not understand how the rights of the association were compromised. On the contrary, I think this law has just recognised the importance the associations have had for the last ten years when it comes to providing free legal assistance. And it is precisely this law that allows associations to continue to participate in this, with the fact that when they are in situations where they represent parties in criminal, litigation proceedings, in administrative proceedings, they can only do so through lawyers, because it is the procedural laws in which lawyers represent parties so that the law on free legal aid cannot in any way derivate the procedural rules that already exist. What is important is that associations can step forward as parties in asylum-seeking procedures, in procedures to prohibit discrimination. They do not appear in the role of MPs, they are already party to the procedure, and in other situations where they provide assistance, if I repeat it again, they can provide in criminal, litigation or administrative proceedings if they have a lawyer. When it comes to funding free legal aid, it is not only local self-government units, which will bear the costs of lawyers who are hired in this way, but are just scheduled for 50% to be financed by the Republic of Serbia through the Ministry of Justice and 50% through the local self-government unit. What I said at the beginning, at the time of the law, precisely the intention of passing this law implies that you have one stable economic policy, which will just ensure that you have enough resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget, to ensure that approximately one billion dinars for engagement are allocated on an annual basis, first of all, to lawyers who will act in these proceedings. When it comes to tariffs, I have to remind you that and when it comes to official defenses of lawyers, the Justice Department is prescribing a tariff in those cases. There's no way he's getting in the way of an independent lawyer. There's an attorney's fee when you volunteer to hire a lawyer and pay the expenses and fees you owe him. In these cases, it is the state that will finance free legal aid, i.e. to finance the services of a lawyer. I think in this particular situation, the state should also prescribe a tariff. Lawyers have no obligation to act in these cases. Only those lawyers who agreed, who are on the list, who will be in the register that will be run by the Justice Ministry, will be able to participate in these proceedings, and therefore, if they have applied to be registered, have accepted the tariff to be prescribed. What I can promise publicly is, of course, that the Ministry of Justice will not just bring a tariff. As before, when we've been doing laws in the last two years, lawyers have absolutely participated in working groups, so, and when it comes to sublegal acts, lawyers will be involved. The public note tariff is brought by the minister of justice. I don't see why that would be any different when it comes to the law on free legal aid. Just one more time to get back to Article 40. The Personal Data Protection Act, where you are constantly referring to the opinion of the Commissioner. I wonder how the trustee doesn't mind the same provision that exists in the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter, precisely the law in which the adoption and writing were taken part by the Commissioner, so he didn't mind when he prescribed such a provision for himself. The same provision exists now in the Data Protection Act. And again, I point out, only the Personal Data Protection Act can limit the rights of natural persons when it comes to data processing. No other law can limit that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48117	The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48118	Thank you. There is no text without context, and then for the introduction of reasons and ways and criteria why of 25 laws and choices for four. First, whatever laws we analyze, the laws can deal with two topics – either they deal with freedoms and rights or they deal with space. At this session are laws dealing with both freedoms and human rights and dealing with space, protection, promotion, evaluations, the processing of space in general. And then you have to determine what your priority is, do you want these laws that work space, or do you want a law that talks about freedoms and the rights of people. My choice was about the freedoms and rights of people in three cases and one of the laws dealing with space. The second criterion is how to choose an analysis of the law, so when I analyze the laws so that I want to understand the argument of everyone in this room, but it's much more important that those outside this room, then first I look at the laws that I am not the opposition, that I am the ruling majority, would vote for this law. This is the first criterion, because you are thus rid of the usual shortsightedness in that everything that comes from the opposition is wrong and that everything that comes from the authorities is wrong. Fortunately for the agenda of this session here, there are quite a number of laws, which, with minor repairs and minor interventions, are laws that I could vote for, and these are mostly laws explained by the interior minister. So that's the criterion by which he will, practically, in this discussion, be a little bit at ease, except for the Emergency Risk Reduction and Emergency Management Act and not a lot of it. Then you look at the second criterion whether you understand the law correctly, take every law and say – well, now this one is in force, what happens to the one to whom the law applies, from the first to the last member. I'm waiting for the day to be done by one of the government's representatives, any one, whoever supports it, because that's how the laws are defended, so that they can understand the ones we're all sitting here for. So, I take the law and I say - he deals with freedoms and rights, in the case of free legal aid to whom does he apply? From the first to the last member I must understand what is happening to this human being. I take the lobbying law, it's about any law that lobbying is about, what's going on? Data protection law, what's going on? Unfortunately, in all these three laws, I have great difficulties. If it's possible at all, with the hope that here, of course, there's a lot smarter than me who would know how to do it. How does this law reflect by applying to the life of a human being, the citizen for whom it is brought? These were the reasons why I would share with you some information, my remarks and comments on the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, the Law on lobbying, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. About the choice of judges for the first time, about the arrangement of courts and all decisions concerning the judiciary, not now, not ever, not a word. I belong to those who believe that judges are capable of deciding about themselves. One of the reasons why I did not vote in the Serbian Assembly for the Constitution in 2006, so of course I did not vote in the referendum, except for several follow-up ones, who unfortunately repeat themselves, so that the constitutional amendments also have a good perspective with me that as a member of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, that is to say, I am the deputy president who will not vote for how you present to me until now the adoption of constitutional amendments, so one of the reasons, apart from the procedure, was that it was wanted to explain to the judges that someone better than the judges themselves knew that they should office themselves, prosecutors, judges, the judiciary at all. I didn't believe it at the time, and now I don't believe it. So I don't mention decisions, not because I think they're bad, not because I mean good, but because I don't think it's my job to talk about who's going to be elected, where they're going to be elected, and what's to be done with the proposals made by the High Council of Justice or the State's Major Prosecutors. The first law, therefore, is the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management. A law that deals with space. So you have a lot of people working in the administration, you have a space called Serbia and you have all of us worried about how to act if anything happens that threatens material property, infrastructure, nature as such or worst human lives. That's what this law is for. When I tried to apply it to any situation, I had two of them as a model, one of them was an explosion acid with favourable meteorological conditions in a factory that produces nitrogen and other chemical devices, and the other was a natural storm wind disaster, and I failed. I failed to implement a situation which is an emergency, because it's obviously burning up the tank, the wind blowing down the trees, through this law. He's missing in his tongue. That's why two questions I want to share with you to understand why it's missing and what difficulties are. So Article 2 in point 24 says what's a big accident. It says: A major accident implies an accident in accordance with the regulations governing environmental protection. My question is what regulations, since I haven't been able to find them, so it's already a step forward, maybe then I can make a model? Another type of language barrier to create is the same member, but point 17) that speaks of exposures, dangers that threaten infrastructure, nature, water, earth, air, people. Exposure involves subjection of people, environment, material and cultural goods to potential losses. When is something susceptible if it isn't exposed and what's the difference? So these are just two examples that I share with you when I tried to make a model. It's a risk account. I'm giving you this as a right. In point 12, you say – the risk is a combination of probability. It's not the only way to count the risk, but good. What I'm missing is how do you count the probability of the excises. So, not doubting that there is always a smooth answer for questions of this kind -- it will be done by sublegal acts, I ask you to spare me that answer. I've been listening for 18 years to what will be done by sublegal acts and, excuse me, come to yourself, we no longer receive these answers. If that's what you're going to say, forget it, whoever you answered me, all great, we're staying good. It's the only law I intend to comment on from the authority of space. There are other laws that are quite decent in the text, such as the Fire Protection Act or the Fire Protection Act. These are laws that speak at the same time about the freedoms and rights of people, but also about the protection of space. They're a lot more complicated. For now, with difficulties, I can see how the Fire Department Act will really be applied. I hope I'm wrong in judgment and it'll go smoothly. I don't see it, but I'm really rooting for it. I come from Vojvodina, there's a 300-year tradition of fire towers and fire departments, and the guys dress nice as firemen, so they come to the ball and stuff, it lasts. I'm rooting for a few reasons, not just to protect property and people from fire and fire. Now three laws dealing with freedoms and rights and also sharing with this law my inability to choose, what is called the law model, one person and to apply the whole law to that one person, with that and that problem. Also, you don't have to waste your time on being dealt with by sublaws, nothing will be solved by sublaws. There has never been, and there will never be, not to mention that since 2013, this Assembly has a resolution, unanimously passed, that you legislators are obliged to pass sublegal acts along with the draft laws, and precisely for the purpose of law enforcement. But I guess that's the kind of time. Here is the first law to comment on – the draft law on lobbying. Why is this the law of freedom and justice? Because people who follow how MPs pass laws have the right to know, beyond any doubt, whether we have passed this law because we know it is in the general interest, whether it has affected us, whether we have calculated well what is and what is the general interest that the new law brings into society, whether it is about freedoms and rights or whether it is about space. Not to mention the laws that involve budget money. So, the shadow of doubt that we don't know what we're doing, but someone talked us into it or worse, we're doing it for a proper fee, is something that the lobbying law should introduce into a completely legitimate space. They have associations, individuals have the right to express their interest, but it can't be any interest. It has to be of general interest to even be lobbying. The whole spirit of this law was guided by this line that when general acts were adopted, they knew who affected the adoption of general acts. As the devil is in the details of small contracts, lobbying, or corruption is never in the making of general acts. Unfortunately, things are experienced from other countries, since we haven't had a law on lobbying so far. Here's the first example I haven't been able to get through, quite clearly. So the Citizens' Association considers it a general interest to pass a law imposing a life sentence in prison. They start an association, they do everything. How does that go through this law? Who explains to whom what the general interest is? Or you want an individual to register, anyway, so work for them. Or another example, an association or an individual who registers wants to prove to us that we formally report all lobbying for the adoption of any law that constitutes a reduction of acquired rights, but general interest. That's not clear in this law. That's all she can do. And that's why I can't vote for the law, because the law is authoritative by its spirit. It is believed in advance that the high major will know that he is running a process where legal space is the law on lobbying. Knowing human nature and loving people, I guarantee you they won't. And this law should either be completed, or we should make some kind of agreement with all of us who read it differently, and we do not want to endanger the fulfillment of the National Action Plan Chapter 23, as I do not wish to compromise the deadlines for Chapter 24. But I don't want to vote for something that I see is not a contribution to the freedoms and rights of people in our country. Another law that is very similar to freedoms and human rights is the law on free legal aid. A law that has a long history and, considering its obligation that when I claim there is no text without context, I will also say the context why this one waited ten long years to appear on the agenda of the Assembly. Because people who do legal work don't see it fair to have anyone else on the team. It's completely colloquial. Are they right? They probably are. I don't blame them. When did it get stuck? Every time it gets stuck in the Constitution and in Article 67 where it's said that only lawyers can handle it. And when it gets stuck on the other hand, you have an executive power that wants to pass the law, or you have some of our minorities in the congregations who also wants to pass the law, and you finally have one solution now, which the lawyers have agreed to, which should really provide free legal assistance, so the state pays. The Minister just explained about the tariffs, and that's really true. That's how she answered why some tariffs would be because the state pays. If you want to be a lawyer on the list, your country's an employer, that's the price, go ahead, if you don't. Now, now, if there's not one very short list left that laws can deal with people who aren't lawyers. I know the easiest thing to say is that there must be criteria for free legal aid, that it can't be a general right because you have people who can provide themselves with an influential, very capable, top-of-the-line lawyer for their needs in courts. That's perfectly normal. But if you want to classify groups that you'll even allow to enter the right to free legal aid under these conditions that you can have someone past the list of lawyers enrolled, just for special laws, then you're actually going to narrow down the field of rights that these people with the best intention of not being constrained but expanded. I don't believe in ethics of good intentions. We have a very large reserve when I hear someone has good intentions for anything. Out of good intentions you have only roads that are paved all the way to hell, responsibility has all sorts of good results. So, with responsibility, I believe that someone else is also trying to make every law pass as a model of who it refers to. And the last law dealing with freedoms and rights, a bill on the protection of personal data. The provisions of this law are essentially the law of abuse of personal data. And this law is my only reason to determine that, that private data, data on the girl's personality on all sides and tools are mutually different political struggles. With equal disgust, I find that when it comes to the President of Serbia, the Government, Minister or Minister of the Interior, as much as and when it comes to any fellow MP, including MPs or MPs of the opposition, but also when it comes to citizens who simply appear above the radar of the public and suddenly you have the use and misuse of their private information that serves as a public dispersal of what was once called tar and feathers in villages. You're legalizing it with this law. The moment you tell me that there is someone smarter than the law who will solve when it is necessary, and when there is no law on the protection of personal data, at the moment you tell me - what is happening now, what is now considered freedom of speech, freedom of use of data, I repeat, I don't care who it is, our big accident as a society is that some of us cheer when Marijan Risticevic is crucified, and some of us cheer when Bosko Obradović or Dragan Djilas is crucified, and some of us cheer when Alexander Vukic is crucified. Until we learn that there is no cheerleading for the abuse of personal data protected for every person, we can only be the backbone of a society where folklore characters sneeze over people's accidents because they cheer for their personal data to be spread to the public, not my own or ours. It's a very serious thing. And other countries have had problems with it, and other societies and haven't dealt with it in this law. I'm not interested in mutual justice ministers and the Commissioner for Protection of Privacy and the right to free information. I find that unworthy. The way we treat independent institutions is considered unworthy, rude. Except we don't have reports of their work in the congregation, which I find illegal, but most of them decided it was so useful. I'm saying it's embarrassing, but it's useful, and I'm asking you to understand clearly how many sharp eyes will be applied to these three laws, to understand that I'm the last person to prevent the fulfillment of the plans for Chapter 23, 24, but I'm also the last person to be silent about any arrogance and authoritarian spirit instead of the democratic spirit of all these three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48119	Thank you. A colleague, Marija Obradović, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48120	Thank you, Chairman. I highly respect the democratic potential of the previous speaker, and it is often heard that what the colleague says should be some of the values we will insist on in Serbia as in a democratic society. The only thing I regret is that their party has fallen into the debt slavery of Dragan Gilas, but there is one interesting thing. I can congratulate them on the new co-ordinator of the Gilas parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament. It's so beautifully done, I hope it won't be... Here, they deny it, they probably don't like the new Alliance for Serbia co-ordinator. The MPs who belong to this parliamentary group are in disrepute. Anyway, let's go back to the laws that are on the agenda today. We have 18 very important laws on the agenda. I won't talk about each of them individually, I want to mention a few of them for those who haven't been following us since the beginning. We are about eight, just over eight hours, the debate is going on today, we have talked about the Law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety, and I want to single out the Law on Voluntary Firepower, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, Free Legal Assistance and the Law on Lobbying. In my personal opinion, of course without any categorization, I think these are very important laws that will well improve the lives of Serbian citizens in the coming period. In the coming days, we will certainly have ten days to discuss these laws which in principle, which in particular, and we will talk about a lot of details. I hope that the citizens of Serbia are really watching this with attention, because it concerns our everyday life. I'm just going to brief the data on the terrible floods that hit us in May 2014, to get you to think about the importance of the proposed laws during this session. So, the Law on disaster prevention and emergency management. What exactly are we trying to do with this bill? How much are we going to improve people's lives? Look at the data from May 2014. Such a situation has not been recorded in the last 120 years. In 2014, the flood endangered the lives, health and property of more than 1.6 million people, 22% of Serbia's population, in 38 municipalities in central and western Serbia. The results of the assessment showed, it does not last long, please just listen carefully, that in 24 flood-affected municipalities, the damage amounted to a billion and 525m euros, 57% of which total damage is the value of destroyed material property, some 900m euros, and about 650m euros are related to production losses. When the remaining municipalities are considered, so up to 38 flood-affected municipalities, the total damage is 1.7 billion euros or more than 4% of GDP. I don't want to bother you with numbers anymore, I know that people aren't always in the mood for it, but for those who sent you to understand how much we lost in 2014, because the system of legislation and the system of the organisation of our local self-government, the institutions that were in charge of reacting at that time, was not so arranged that we experienced this kind of damage. This must not happen to us, which is why the laws and laws that I just counted serve, and this very Law on the prevention of disasters on the management of emergency situations. In order to prevent, therefore, not only the trauma of people, the victim of people who are first, then we must also as someone who is seriously handling, runs the state, has the responsibility to manage, to think about the material economic consequences of our legal framework that we are also handling. I said in the next few days I'd talk a little bit more about the laws in detail. This time I would refer to the results of the MUP, not much, I like to mention numbers, because they are inexorable, there are no lies and I can be corrected by someone who has been dealing with this seriously, statistically, for years, decades ago, until now, it has not happened that I presented false or wrong information, and I think it should be a way of acting in the Serbian parliament. And I would advise some to stick to facts more than general statements that are incorrect. So, in almost all the fields of work in the MUP, significant progress has been recorded, the situation has improved. You will find a small 3% figure, but the overall total crime in Serbia in the first six months of this year has been reduced by 3% compared to the same period of the previous year. To make it more clear to you, 1,300 crimes were less recorded than they were in the previous period. Why am I saying this? Because every day and the media are turned to sensation. The media records every day, reporting on a number of murders, relentless events, of course people like to read something that's sensational, but it gets through a lot of things that make us upset by society, which isn't realistically true. That's why I'm talking about this real data. Another interesting number. A significant total number of crimes committed and a serious murder by 33.56% has been reduced. I'll tell you that in the previous four years from 2014 to 2018 we have almost 34% less serious murders and murders than it was in the period 2008 to 2012. It is those who call us that our society is insecure, that Serbia is not a safe place, from 2008 to 2012 that we had 608 such serious crimes. For the past four years, as Minister Stefanovic heads the ministry, the figure has dropped to 400. So, almost, or exactly one third less. The tremendous effort of people is behind these results. This isn't just a number. This is great teamwork, this is a lot of investment in people in teamwork, in field work. All this cannot be just good will and cannot be self-respecting for the first among you, who is head of the ministry or the head of a particular sector or directorship. It's about people feeling that they have the support of the state behind them, that they have people who care about their status, not only about what their uniform is, what the space they work in, what cars are, what equipment, what weapons are, they take care of the standard of these people, they take care of families of people who are members of the security sector. They're in preparation for the so-called apartment. Security guards, I'm sorry to put it this way, he regularly takes care of family members, especially families of the injured members of the security sector. These are, all I'm talking about, things that are easily verifiable and that you can find in serious documents. So it's not something that my personal judgment is. Another thing that often passes, it's opposition MPs and politicians often like to speak and it's great to hear now, the rate of murder in Serbia per 100,000 inhabitants, it's a serious international organisation, in Serbia is one and a half. I'll tell you what the situation in the region is, I'll tell you what countries have a much worse rate than us. So the number of killings per 100,000 people in Montenegro 2.7, Hungary 2.6, Bulgaria 1.6, Romania 1.6, Austria 1.8, I repeat, in Serbia 1.5. So, all the things we've been listening to in the last few days falls into the water. These numbers say something else. I know it's hard. If we had a society where there's no crime, there's no corruption, there's no such thing as anywhere in the world. Are we trying to fix the situation? We make significant efforts, we invest, not only in people who are on the ground, we invest in logistics, we invest in people who are strategically important to the security system. What is important for us in the future, in the period when we are planning budgets, to insist that all of us in parliament in particular, that more money be allocated in the budget than before for the security sector, on different grounds, and for modernisation, and modernisation, but also for members themselves to raise their standards, because they are people who are with us every day on the street. We want to have confidence, we want to provide security, and that can only be when they feel safe and when they feel that the state is behind them. Police, as the minister has said, will support it, is a guarantee of both security and security of Serbia. Whatever those who do this for petty political points say, don't forget, the kind of punch you're taking doesn't apply to us as political strangers, you're applying to the state. The fact that you're about to get time in the media, because they're going to pass on your lie or sensation to our institutions in the long run. When someone attacks the official, the minister, someone who is highly positioned in an important institution, doesn't attack that man personally, it's one side of the damage that's being done, you're destroying the reputation of that institution, you're destroying the reputation of the state. Where are the limits between my political benefits, my petty daily points and the damage I'm doing to the state. I think someone who's a patriot, who calls himself a patriot, who wants to fight for the development of his society, his country has to carry it somewhere in mind all the time. And I read that somewhere in the presentation, between the lines in the presentation of the previous pay phone. Only such a political scene, which is the kind of patriotism that is constantly woven through our exposure and behavior, can lead Serbia forward. Our problems are so serious, it brings them to our door every day of world security. What are global challenges, houses and doors to Serbia, because we are in the heart of Europe. I would like all political parties to understand, because together we are building Serbia's fate and the fate of Serbia's citizens. Thank you for your attention, of course we will support these laws in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48121	Thank you. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48122	Thank you, President. As regards the exposure of Mrs Comic, regarding the incidents, the subjectiveness, and how the risk assessment is calculated, i.e. the risk ratio, which is the probability that the acid will occur and the consequences that can arise from such an accent, so it is usually defined by these, let me say, international and European estimates that we follow. You're right, it is a complex termology for why, when we talk about exposure, subjection, maybe it's best to explain it in the case of nitrogen, hydrothermal, some object of that kind that has, let's say, where there's a subjection to an accent of any kind, whether it's a potential attack, whether it's some other danger. You have based on this exposure of people living in a direct environment or a certain environment near that facility. It's hard to say that there is a subjection without exposure, it's hard to say that there is, but there is a certain difference. So there's a certain difference and we tried to define it this way. When complexes are defined, this is related to your second question, which defines the spatial continent, under operator control where dangerous substances are present in one or more plants in equal or larger quantities than prescribed in terms of production, use and storage and handling of dangerous substances. It says they are being kept, i.e. the application of regulations that have certain environmental protections, and that is mainly the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which has laid down the ways in which these chemical complexes are regulated, so as to define protection, i.e. regulations that define the threat of the population and all that is applied. The IOP Emergency Sector is acting under these regulations. So, in addition to the legislation in our internal matter, we follow regulations, according to this Law on the Protection of the Environment. I hope I've gotten a little close to you. Yes, major accidents, in accordance with the regulations that are very defined in the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Yeah, that's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-31-0.u48123	Thank you. Thank you, this would be the end of tonight's work, and we will continue the debate at 10.00 p.m. on Friday.
