ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45296	Thank you very much. Although it wasn't Friday yesterday, Serbia was hit by a black Tuesday. Regardless of the lack of attention of traffickers, the number of victims is extremely high. I think it would be in accordance with Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly, it was our turn to pay tribute to the minutes of silence, honor and mention of those killed in that car accident, because besides the driver's mistakes, responsibility for this kind of accident must be borne by the owner of that highway, because at the time of digitisation and coverage of the cameras, it was possible to turn the drivers' attention electronically on the highways that they had to reduce their speed from 130 to significantly less speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45297	Comrade Chevrlic, we certainly cooperate with the families of the victims in this car accident. Although this is not the custom in the work of the National Assembly anymore because of also the condolences of families, and also in order to draw attention to drivers to manage their vehicles more carefully, because they must take care of their lives and the lives of other traffic participants, I will adopt your proposal. I ask the People's Messengers to give a minute of silence, in a way, and give our condolences to the families of the victims. We'll continue with further work. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Kostic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45298	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment with special reference to the expansion of environmental education. This education received its guidance in 1993 through UNEP, which works with the UN organisation, and it is seen that every environmental education must cover all degrees of education from pre-school to university and that it has a permanent character. It should be entered into all forms of teaching at school, in many activities outside school and in student organisations. It must continue through professional training of workers at individual jobs. It must be in all teaching subjects where possible, as it allows exactly an integrated approach to the process of education and education. The educational content should cover the issue of integrity with emphasis on historical or developmental approach. It is essential to understand man’s destructive powers, the limitations of natural resources, and to learn about the concrete consequences that man has in some way in regional and planetary proportions. The basics of this education are the principles of values relating to living resources. These are the obligations arising from the signing of international documents in Rio in 1992, Johannesburg in 2002, as well as from joint statements by the environment and education ministers, at a conference in China in 2003 and at the Sixth Ministerial Conference titled "The Life Environment for Europe" held in Belgrade in 2007. It is very important that the concept of sustainable development is integrated into teaching and extracurricular activities and overall work and school life, but also out of school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45299	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP general, Dr Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Milovan Krivokapić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45300	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted Amendment 1 to Amendment 1 which adds Article 2 to the Honorable Ministers with my associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment which should resolve the differences that exist in the current Law on the Protection of the Environment and International Obligations arising from the EU accession process in order to meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and co-financing of projects and funds of the Green Fund for projects financed from the EU into pre-accession funds. First of all, I have to say that by amending and supplementing the Law on the Environment, we are creating a legal framework for the systematic integration of different issues of importance to achieve policy objectives in the field of the environment. Environmental protection involves predicting all negative phenomena caused by any human action, intervention, or change in the environment in order to prevent the causes of degradation, pollution or destruction of the environment and excessive use of resources and space. I would like to emphasise this, that under environmental protection, and taking a number of measures, especially legal ones, and then technical and technological ones, which in the best way can prevent samples or mitigate or eliminate any negative consequences. Article 1 has been amended and complemented in terms of additional definition, the use of the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. without public competition being implemented in addition to the financing of intervention measures in exceptional circumstances of environmental pollution, recycling and the resolution of polluted space, projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance, international development assistance from other financial sources, which require co-financing. In this way, it is ensured that IPARD projects are co-financed according to a established methodology for these projects. Environmental protection is the obligation of all countries, i.e. individuals, because it affects health, and together with social conditions, it is the basis for the preservation of human existence and the healthier development of society. Not only do we ignore the fact that investment in the field of environmental protection, in addition to protecting the environment and adapting to climate change, opens new jobs and increases annual trades, e.g. In the recycling industry. Finally, in order to ensure the long-term existence of society, its environment, we must respect the concept of sustainable development, and this represents a new social development strategy. More specifically, sustainable development represents an integrated, economic and technological, social and cultural development, focused on the needs of protection and improvement of the environment that enables current and future generations to meet their needs and improve the quality of life, which is what is very important to us, because this government and President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic are working and fighting primarily for the future of his people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45301	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45302	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to environmental protection, of course it deserves special attention. Why? Because it is in direct correlation, proportion to human health, animal health and, of course, the plant world, and it should certainly be supported by everything that goes in the direction that Serbia really is a clean and beautiful country. When we travel and when we are able to see from the plane a little bit of our land, we see how beautiful it is and how much beauty and wealth God has given to the citizens of this country and our people. It seems to me that the problem of municipal waste at this point is one of the hardest. Why? So, of course, we don't have a system of responsibility. We don't have enough system of rewards and penalties to commit and commit. I think we can solve this problem very easily and particularly apostrophe of the problem in the rural area. We're in cities how we solve this problem of how to put off municipal waste. Unfortunately, people living in rural areas have not been defined where they can delay their waste, and they have the same needs and spend the same matter, using everything people use in urban areas. In order to introduce a system and penalties and rewards, and in this area of the Republic of Serbia, we need these people, as a state and as a local community, to define where they can and where they have to put off their daily waste like everyone else. That's why I think in the next period I have to apostrophe this particular problem and, Mr. Minister, I think you have both the strength and the will to work on this problem to clear Serbia. In 2004, as president of the Royal Municipality, I hired everyone alive to clean up these wild dumps. Unfortunately, six months later, they were in the same place. That's when I realized that the only way to solve this problem is by working with local communities to define places that will, of course, be done according to certain environmental standards and rules. It can also be flow dumps that would be filled for a year, so they're empty, etc. So there are more solutions than I've ever been told back then by people who deal with ecology, so we'll also allow people living in the rural area to put off their municipal waste in an adequate and correct way. Then we have the moral right, as a state, to really define the laws concerning criminal prosecution, to sharpen criminal prosecution to the maximum, when we define to people where and how to put off their waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45303	I thank my colleague Jovic. The word has a minister, Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45304	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take this opportunity past the usual one, given what the MP said, if you had just said what seems to be misunderstood for most people, and that is why Serbia is to this extent, I would say, polluted by wild dumps. If you don't believe it, the problem is that in our rural households and rural advents our peasants have nowhere to put off their waste, but if you wonder how this waste was not back 40 or 50 years ago and over, the answer is quite simple. Until a few dozen years ago, in our country that was otherwise called, plastic waste and all that was related to it did not appear to that extent. So, almost indegradable. It was mostly in rural households a decomposable waste that and when they throw wherever they wanted that waste within a short time, it actually disappears. By the appearance of plastics, five packagings and other materials that are actually waste, which are not decomposed, we have begun to be the dirty and abandoned land that we have never washed. The key is exactly what you said, when our utility companies have economic powers, it's no longer a problem whether our people in the King or elsewhere, which I often visit, don't know what to do, but they don't have enough money to do it. They don't have enough trucks to collect that garbage. At least one container or bucket or container, as we say, of a single cube for a single household, often carrying, is quite enough for Serbia to be clean. We recently punished one person who threw two or three bags of municipal waste into Racine because it can't be done anymore, but at the same time I say that we have to provide as state and local self-government the ability for these people to delay it somewhere else. The solution is to establish a regional dump, whose operators will have an interest in entering and making money from each kilogram of waste. Thank you for noticing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45305	I thank the ministers. The National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Stanislav Janosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45306	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as well as known well, we are working on adopting the Law on the Protection of the Environment, a very complex area, primarily multidisciplinary, because it concerns human health, as well as the development of the plant and animal world, full protection of flora and fauna. Social conditions are certainly an important factor affecting the application of this law, because it is necessary to urge citizens in continuity so that there are no individuals who will constantly pollute the environment, that is, not to worry about recycling, about waste materials, about exhaust gas. Simply, we'll get into a situation when there's such a good law on the agenda, and we will, of course, adopt it for those reasons, because it will contribute to the positive effects of their application. We will still have individuals who will not take care of wastewaters, waste gases, wild dumps, and then, as they say, we were free of charge. We can influence not only by appealing constantly, many of my colleagues have said that it is necessary to introduce it into primary education of children, which I absolutely agree with. But what is important is that we also influence the preservation of indigenous species. It is necessary to preserve domestic beef, domestic sheep, as well as birds, of course. But what is crucial, what makes one species, is expensive, i.e. the generation of animals that are similar to morphological or physiological characteristics from this climate and certainly to be proud that there are still Bushes or similar species. What I have to say is to preserve the application of this law and what will enable us to join the EU is certainly the use of the Green Fund, which is also talked about by colleagues, but also by the IPARD funds, in order to contribute to the protection of the environment and the preservation of our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45307	Thank you, colleague Janošević. By amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45308	I just want to support my colleague's amendment, I think it needs to be adopted, and I want to add the argument she's been making, that we really need to do a lot more than we do to protect the environment, especially for the habitats of animals that our colleague was talking about, our species, those who live here and who are used to the area they live in. We have a different situation in Serbia. We have parts of Serbia where people are moving, leaving, all of us talking about it on various topics, and where certain areas of Serbia are empty, say, eastern Serbia, mostly rural areas, mountain areas, etc. These forests, whether they believe it or not, are spreading in certain areas and we have even improved living conditions or habitats for the animals that live there. However, we have areas where our actions mean, by doing people, civilization, development, urbanism that we do, even by economics, we create problems and we reduce habitats for animals. Believe it or not, the rabbit in Vojvodina is almost completely gone. The silver savage in Vojvodina has a lot of problems. We're talking about birds. I'm telling you that a goat is like our bird, a pheasant is not our bird, he's brought from Central Asia, but a goat like our bird has disappeared all the way to Alexine. It's only since Alexinco, down south, first of all, because of the way agricultural production is done, our goat has been preserved. In this other part, it's gone in Vojvodina at all. The Duchess has been turned into a tepsi. All six comas a little bit, the minister will correct me, but I think less than 7% of the forest is currently in Vojvodina. We were talking about windscreens. It's another thing, but we need them, too. However, we no longer have the forest. So, in Vojvodina, everything, and we know, we're also talking about the problem of the usurper processing and the one where they shouldn't go in with the agricultural machines. We had a problem in the floods in 2014, that no one could get to the shore of the fort because they were deep orans and places where they didn't belong. So we had that kind of problem in 2014 when there were big floods. We have to change the habitats. It's not all about profit, it's not all about dinar. If we're talking about the environment, then we need to know that in one part we have to give up or those who process the country in Vojvodina have to give up in one piece, but really a small part, a big profit. And it will not fall upon them, for those who do it. It's done everywhere in the world, especially in Europe, in the EU, where we strive to go. So, we need to bring it, Minister, I think your Ministry has done it so far, we've spoken here in the Assembly, we've had this topic and a public debate in the past. And while Mr. Blazic was chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection here, he's with you now, the Secretary of State, he knows what we're talking about here, and many know exactly what we're talking about. We need to make a legal commitment to remizing, to make a legal commitment, to save the little game I was talking about earlier, and birds and rabbits. I have brought a project from Brussels that is being done and I will bring it to you, in Germany, in Belgium, in England, where at 500 hectares, 20 hectares of owners, let's say, farmers, peasants or those who process the land helps to do these things right now, to do habitats for animals living in that area, especially for small game, but it will be a salvation for everyone. It's the only way. The only way is to determine the part that has to, even on a processed surface to protect it from processing. Otherwise we won't stop this and we won't have it. Anyone driving a car, and I will end up, from Belgrade to Budapest or from Belgrade to Zagreb, can see the difference, clean, with his eyes can see the difference when driving through Vojvodina, and what it's like to drive through Slavonia or through Hungary. There you'll see the woods and the swamps and the bushes and what we call remise hunters, you won't see it anywhere. Clear, straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45309	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45310	Gentlemen, well, here is the topic which is the essence of the environment in terms of not only endangering climate change, but also the stories of what both colleagues and colleagues were talking about biodiversity. Without forests and without foresting, there is no story of environmental protection and there is no story of the protection of biodiversity. The duchess, you're right, is somewhere below 7% wooded. We have a special body that we've built together with the duchy government to deal with all environmental issues. What's important to know is that, here, the reminders are working, Belgrade has in the past few years forested over 700 hectares of surface area, so it can be. And this year, we're going to invest in a competition that we're just doing, somewhere over 40 million dinars in shaming, about areas as well as these things. This is just a preparatory year to convince local self-government and others to think and be ready next year. We're going to invest a lot more money in shaming next year, and all the organizations you mention will be very important allies to us everywhere, even for the beginning of those areas that are public, we don't have to go still to private ones, just if we were to get it out of hand, I think Vojvodina would be significantly more shambled than it is. This is the beginning of something I think in a few years it's going to start giving serious results. And what you're running is a topic that I think Serbia is dependent on, and it seems she's still not aware of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45311	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45312	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to the first member of this law, with the aim of encouraging the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the biological diversity. Since I come from Kruševec, I would like to point out that the town of Kruševac is taking care of environmental protection and quality of the environment and, of course, is working to preserve it. In fact, a year ago, a cornerstone was erected and it began to be built by a wastewater treatment plant, which is really important, because here we have been discussing here for several days how important it is to preserve our environment and to leave a healthy environment for our generations. This investment worth over 14 million dinars will bring the town of Kruševac into one of the most developed in the area. And here is the big deal, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is determined by common measures to protect our environment is proof that you were at the opening of this factory, along with Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Otherwise, the citizens of Kruševac and the surrounding cities owe the highest gratitude for achieving this project to Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Mr. Bratislav Gasic, because they encouraged the realization of this project. In voting day, we will support these good laws, and I suggest you continue at this pace and keep together and leave our children a healthy environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45313	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45314	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, environmental protection is one of the most important segments for a healthy lifestyle in Serbia, and amendments to this law need to solve the differences that exist in the law and international obligations that need to be harmonised. Of course, the debate on this law did not leave behind the attacks of these so-called too smart ones. The Alliance for Serbia, whose newly-roasted representatives here in the Assembly, are not worth two to three votes in their polling stations. By the way, these days we had an example of a real ecological bomb in Sapca Nebojsa Zelenović, along with his special adviser Dusan Petrovic, how to make a plan in Strasbourg on November 6th for who knows which way to degrade and mud their country, in an attempt to protect their sins, of course by making sure that their journey does not go through Sremska Mitrovica and Požarec, until in Šapac, in the village of Kasarska Livada, the worst waste was brought days. It is literally prescribed in the yard of the company "Masinokop", where the public utility "Old Town" is leased because their land was sold by the city's administration for about 1m euros and sent its own public utility to tenants. So, in the yard, depending on the situation, it was about 50 tons of garbage in the city zone in one big settlement. In time, the waste has become a haven for gathering large numbers of rats and snakes. To make it bigger, to show what it looks like and what it looks like in the yard. Of course, to make the tragedy bigger, just a fence, these kind of ecological bombs, parts of an institution for children with special needs, where the park where children play and the kitchen where meals are prepared. Also, there is a church yard close by, which is also threatened. So that's what Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic were hiding from the citizens of Sapco. This is only part of the arrogance and arrogance towards the citizens of Sapac, the team of the Alliance for Serbia. Mr. Minister, since the Republic Environmental Protection Inspectorate came to the public utility, the chaps expect an answer to what they found there, what they found, and of course responsibility for what they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45315	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45316	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, when we talk about improving ecosystems, biotopes, biocenosis in the Republic of Serbia, especially those who come from the northern province of our country, not to look back on the richness of the region from which we come, and above all I, who come from Kikinda, because Kikinda belongs to one of the least forested cities in Serbia, means, about 1%. If we look at what is the average percentage of noise in Europe, by different sources it is between 30% and 40%, in Serbia, if we don't look at the quality of the forest, that percentage is about 26. 27%, in Vojvodina between 6% and 7%, and in Kikinda only 1%. The shaming and at all wind protection belts that we almost miss in the northern province of our country have multiple significance, not only for reducing air pollution, but also for reducing winds, and thus affecting the reduction of evaporation, so that by some estimates the humidity of air is where there are more forests and wind protection belts and up to 15%, but also these wind protection belts affect the increase of traffic safety, which is certainly current these days, not only these days, but unfortunately in Serbia the previous years. What matters very much to me is that in the last few years, the city of Kikind and the rural government, I now hear from you, Mr. Minister, has recognized that this is a burning problem, that this is a priority area, that investment in large funds in this area depends not only on what I have previously listed, but also on the health of people living in this region. The regional government, as far as I have data, has assessed in the strategy that over the next few years with 6-7% of the noise, the noise in Vojvodina should be 14%, and the city of Kikinda has planted about 40,000 new trees in the past three years, which is of course not enough. I welcome your initiative to allocate more resources to this area next year, as I welcome the great effort of local self-government, but in this we will have to endure, since it will certainly not last one, two, or five years, but it will be a long-term process that will bring us all better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45317	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45318	Thank you. In several consecutive amendments, regardless of whether they relate to the conservation of the eco-system, the preservation of biodiversity or indigenous species, the arguments on wind protection belts are exchanged. Consciousness for the sake of knowing the facts, so that the next regular session, in spring, and next autumn 2019, etc., would not be possible without amending the Law on Forests. We were warning the minister of a leak, a serious one, which was made for the surface, so no one is in charge of the traffic section. And to the Ministry, if it's possible for you to handle it with sublegal acts, which I don't believe, but then to submit amendments and additions to the Law on Forests and Traffic with our agreement that we don't have a discussion or this particular review, amendments or a proposal, but to simply enable, if there are funds for wind protection belts, to have a clear and clear regulation that you will be competent to do so. Otherwise, windscreens were a huge problem because of the conflict of regulations. I don't know why people hate wind protection belts, but if there's something useful, which means, well, not micro-climate, but if you look at cases of strong winds, large rainfalls, snow specials, then the wind protection belts, except that they keep the top layer on oranics and preserve low growth, true grace and are completely natural. We don't have them, except at very rare locations, unfortunately, but we won't have them if you don't imitate the regulations. A few colleagues from the ruling majority and a few of us from the opposition have full agreement on that. I think the simplest way to change the Traffic Safety Act is because there's an ingenious regulation that a tree shadow can't fall on the asphalt. I wouldn't know why the shadow can't shade the asphalt, but there's that, as well as the last changes to the forest law that you practically detached anyone to take care of the land belt where there would be wind protection belts. Without doubting the expertise of how windscreens are being built, I think this is a previous question and that we should not leave all of us to gossip about this problem for the next session. I know that this can't be done under the IPARD program and that it really does have a vertical limit on the subject, but since the argument is in the amendments, I want to say. And while I'm taking my word for it, it may not be at first sight related to the problems of who can and who gets permission for wind protection belts and what laws prevent it, but it is related to the protection of the environment. It was also an effort by counterparts Nada Lazic and mine to make cards of erosion. We were promised that the money from the enormous 10 million dinars would be allocated for it, it never happened. So please, here, on this occasion, before the 2019 budget is prepared, to consult experts from the Mining and the Faculty of Forests, there are them, and to renovate cards of erosion, to do new technologies and to get paid from the 2019 budget. Knowing the capacity for this area, knowing how many people love to talk about protecting the environment, without absolutely doing anything, by the way, here, anecdoticly, I've heard here several times that we're talking about the human environment. The man's middle is a navel, and this is the environment. So, up to the level of socially acceptable to talk positively about protecting the environment, as good as it is that it's a high level, it's so bad that we're doing a terrible little work to apply the rules. So these are my remarks concerning both ecosystems and biodiversity, more or less, I know, unrelated to IPARD, but if we start now, the first spring construction of wind protection belts may be in spring 2019. If we don't change the rules by then, it won't be in 2020.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45319	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45320	Thank you. Let me just have a minute. First of all, colleagues are quite, I wanted to say correctly, but I'm not here to judge what's right and what isn't right, but in any case conveniently, they mentioned the question of shaming. And, as a fact of saying that, given the competition we talked about, this year, the Kickindi defined 4.380,000, the Old Paz 4.500,000 and the White Church 731,000, etc. So that tells you that we really think about it and that we're working on it. The Vojvodina, therefore, is the most endangered as far as it is concerned, regardless of what Serbia averages 27%. What my colleague mentioned, too, is that we have a problem with different competences. We'll make sure we try to find a consensus with the other ministries, see where that solution is, because I think an absolute solution is wind protection belts and everything that falls into the forest. Not to mention, as far as the erosion map is concerned, I'm absolutely here on my field. We're currently building a methodology for making a map of erosion and it will absolutely go away. It's a very important question. Climate change is practically a paradigm of erosion, streams, etc. Therefore, you can expect that in due course, as soon as the Forest College and others are working on it, as soon as we finish and try to walk with regulations to agree or to agree, and frankly, I think that the forest and all that is related to the forest would have to be in the jurisdiction of this ministry, because then the view of all this would be very different. Until that happens, we will try with colleagues from agriculture and other ministries, even traffic, as you said, to see what the problem is and try to solve it if possible as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45321	Thank you, Minister Trivan. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45322	Minister, chairman, colleagues, I would like to point out the need for increased supervision when it comes to the protection of rivers in Serbia. We are witnessing frequent environmental disasters caused by the disposal of chemical waste into the river. The problem that should be solved is the day-to-day uncontrollable explosion of sand from riverbeds, which affects the fish's death. Therefore, all measures should be taken to ensure that only those who have a licence in a controlled area apply their right. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Ecology to pay attention to this problem that is being reported on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45323	Thank you, fellow Yugoslav. According to the amendment, MP Milimir Vujadinovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45324	Thank you, Chairman. Well, the truth and the fact is working, and about the debate about our colleague's amendment, we've heard a lot of things that don't stand. It is good that there is a principle of agreement between all of us here on the need to protect the human environment, or the environment, it is good that there is a principle agreement when it comes to wind protection belts, but it is also good to note what was going on in the past. None of us hate wind protection belts like we do from the opposition, but we have quite an ugly memory when it comes to this theme of wind protection belts, especially me in Vojvodina. You said it well, Minister, Vojvodina has a big problem, dating back to 2010. In 2010, 40 million dinars were allocated from the province's government for 395 hectares in Subotica. It was foreseen that 203 acres of forest in the Kastastar municipality of Djurjin, in Žednik 102 hectares, in Bikova 89 hectares. Of course, that money from the province government was paid in 40 million, and the shaming you know how it ended? Of those 203 acres in Đurđin, 25 hectares of those 102 hectares in Žednik were forested, 13 acres of them were forested, and of those 89 in Bikov, nothing was forested. The money, of course, is paid, and the forest is nowhere to be found. If this job had been done right then, we would not have our colleague Shormaz's story today, but would have had it in Vojvodina as well as in Slavonia, as in neighbouring Hungary, we would have endless forests. I just want to say that we have nothing against wind protection belts as our opposition colleagues told us, nor do we hate wind protection belts, but we have one really bad memory when it comes to this thing. I congratulate you on everything you're doing and when it comes to this craziness, but also when it comes to this legal proposal that's ahead of us, which I'm going to talk about a little bit later. It's just, I had a need to draw attention to stopping discussing amendments to honor someone that we ourselves are guilty of during the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45325	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45326	Thank you. They reiterate that the proposals for amending the laws and proposals for budgetary positions, for the budget, for amending the Transport Safety Act and for amending the Law on Forests, at any time when it comes to wind protection belts. I don't mind the people's MPs persistently calling it the human environment and the human environment and being proud of their ignorance. It's the right of everyone. But I really don't mind you changing your offers and supplementing the law, making your offer rules on windy belts, not accepting them, and then doing stories about what it has or doesn't have a memory of. We share this memory with a colleague because it was happening in this congregation and in the previous session, because for years I've been talking about how to solve the problem of wind-belt jurisdiction. Since I'm one very benevolent person, for all the illegal activities in Subotica, you have police administration in Subotica, you have coalition partners, then from Subotica, which you say have violated the law, it's SVM. You have the right and jurisdiction to file criminal charges for budget abuse. You have the right to do something and to have my support for it. You have the right to gossip only, but there won't be any wind protection belts, there won't be any legal use of the budget, there won't be a better ecosystem and there won't be a better biodiversity. It's also a free choice. I don't slow down anyone's choice to just gossip about problems. Everyone's rights. Also, I'm defending my choice of dealing with facts, trying to help this ministry, as well as with previous councils with a serious problem that we have when it comes to windscreens. Because we tried several times, but within the framework of the People's proverb, it is a waste of singing to those who do not hear. Now we're trying again, hoping he has ears, hope is always needed. I repeat, there is a need for the synchronisation of the rules, because it simply dropped jurisdiction for that small area along the roads, regional, subregional, highways, wherever you want. For highways, it's the least of the problems, though that's the problem. The problem is maintenance at the highways, because your rules are in conflict and from there you get this fermentation and from there we've got water ducts buried along the roads, which you can see by Banata, by Bačka, all over Serbia, where you have flat areas, where you need water canals. So, if you want to check, because you have the right to trust your colleagues that this is the first time that I'm talking about windscreens, you've got the Parliament's documentation, you've got all the kind of proposal that we've had when it comes to windscreens, and it's really at your disposal, if you think it's worth anything, my support to get offices in the course of this calendar year and also windscreens and erosions come in with a clear position in the 2019 budget, when it's probably somewhere in the government right now, among the ministries, but under the Budget Act of November 1st or 15th, when it's in the Assembly. These are the things that political parties need to agree on, through party targets, these are the things that we should agree on in the Assembly, that there is agreement here, no special debate, really by voting. It's a way to prove maturity, to have awareness of the general interest, because both things are of general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45327	Thank you. By amendment, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45328	Thank you, Chairman. I have no doubt that we all have memories here, only we try to reach our memories as far away as possible, and some others either don't remember or don't want to remember. We simply remember that in 2010, we remember that 40 million, remember those 400 unshumbled hectares. As far as police administrations are concerned, he's suing some other things, and here we remember that some ministers from that previous period, who are back from Subotica, are playing the case, who have dealt with this issue that today has been addressed by Minister Trivan, the subject of police and investigative authorities. But, well, that's another thing and we leave it to the police, investigative and judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia who, unlike any period we remember, are now doing their job. We remember what this job of protecting the environment or the human environment looked like during that period, and we see what it looks like today. These are simple facts, when we insist on them, these are facts, and these are all the memories that I will try to work on, and my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party to always remind the citizens that it was in the past, as much as anyone else has tried to erase that memory from our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45329	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45330	Thank you. Nothing more than to remember, since I remember absolutely everything, but even better to refrain from lying, that would be quite polite. What part do you want? (Alexander Martinovic: The first one, from 2008 to 2012. ) From 2008 to 2012? What do you want to know between 2008 and 2012? (Alexandar Martinovic: How you forested Vojvodina. About the humbling of the Duke. So, all the details, including defamation and the ruse of Minister Oliver Dulic. (Alexander Martinovic: I'm just asking who's ugly him. I was just asking you to explain how you were sniffing the Vojvodina. Here you go. Rustling and slandering.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45331	My colleague, Comić, here you are, you have your word. Please don't have a dialogue with the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45332	I would, but how can I tell you, they're interested. I didn't start it, they asked, I'm decent, I'm from Vojvodina. Even when I'm alone, when I'm asked, I answer. So, if he can do it without the insult and slander of Minister Dulic, he can, if he can't, do it right again. If you want to make yourself better by slandering Minister Dulic today, my most well-intentioned suggestion is – you will not give it a success, but if you want to explain that the whole legislative framework, which we are talking about today, was brought between 2008 and 2012, that this is one of the reasons why we have no criteria for 27, why we have only the need for amendments and additions and the Law on the protection of the environment and probably the Law on Waste Management, if you want to talk about why many good solutions without rational reasons have been abolished and removed from the legal system, if you want to talk about why the Agency for Chemicals has been removed, which is one of the biggest mistakes that have happened, or the Agency for non-ionizing radiation, in the same Assembly, I was told that I have invented non-conforming radiation, that it does not exist. And Oliver Dulic probably invented non-ionizing radiation, which would be very convenient, since it's a very important thing in physics, but unfortunately it's not true. So, every kind of choice that you choose to ugly and slander others represents yourself better than it is is a free choice that I will defend, but the will to rose Oliver Dulic, regardless of the facts, is also something that I can ask you to voluntarily give up. Because and what was the campaign against him personally and gossiping and slandering about everything he is and what the people of the Ministry did is still giving an epilogue in court proceedings, for which I repeat, I am the first to, for everyone, neutrally, because it is part of the rule of law. To repeat, all types of illegal use of the budget in Subotica are also available for information from the 2010 coalition partner, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and the Socialist Party of Serbia, perhaps. It would be good to ask together to really come to the fact that everyone responsible is put into the process, so that it is clear that it is still stronger among all of us, the will to gossip, to slander and defamation and the will to look better on ourselves by negatively defining others than we want, not to abuse the budget, to really be talking about facts and to be some good effect and to be more than these changes to the laws regarding environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45333	Thank you, colleague Komic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45334	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107. You cannot mislead the public and this respected home by constantly changing the thesis and not allowing it, Chairman. No one here roses or slanders, that is the least of our intentions, any citizen of Serbia, whoever he is, from whom he comes from, not even former Minister Oliver Dulic. Here is the fundamental question of what about 400 hectares of unshumbled surfaces in Vojvodina, i.e. in Subotica, that's the essential question. We're not talking about anyone here, hate, slander. Hate and slander are coming to President Vukic, first of all. We're asking what about 400 acres of surfaces that were intended for shaming in Subotica and what about 40 million dinars paid out of the then Regional Government, that's a fundamental question. Replacement of thesis will not lead to the concealment of our memory. If it's about the facts and everything that's done, if you're already returning me, the ministry whose head was then Minister Oliver Dulic, there's the judicial authorities, I think they even gave their last word. But we know too in Subotica very well. We remember "Ipsylon Kraks", what was done on it, we remember the promise that he would tie his political destiny to the fate of "Ipsyon Kraks". In the same way, the political fate of the then minister and the fate of the "Ipsylon Kraks" ended. Here, today it's built, thank God, it's in the final stage. We remember the National Theatre of Palic, but also these 400 acres and 40 million, not to change the thesis. We don't slander anyone, we don't hate anyone, we just ask what's up with 40 million and 400 acres, that's the essence of today's debate in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45335	A colleague, Vujadinović, in most of your exposure through which you pointed to a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I fully agree, in the sense that Serbia today is a regulated rule of law in which the institutions of the system function and that I ask you to point out that part, as regards judicial proceedings, is left to the competent authorities, to the competent institutions to get their epilogues. Simply, everyone in Serbia should do their job, so we should continue to do the work for which we have taken responsibility, which is to continue the debate according to the amendments. I just have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45336	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know something about this action too - let's clean up Serbia, when in every Belgrade municipality they planted a few strangers, but they forgot to water them so that they died. As I pointed out in the principle debate, and many of my colleagues found that even after a great deal of appeals that we did not destroy the environment, we did not, unfortunately, change our bad habits and continue to pollute both rivers and forests and lakes ruthlessly. They're right colleagues when they say that solving a problem like this is very expensive, especially if the cause of the problem doesn't stop. We already have our expenses on a continuous basis and for what we call a human factor's neglect. We are all aware that we must protect natural goods and we realize that this protects the future of generations to come. However, it is obvious that this is not enough motivation for us, to be precise, one part of the citizens is not enough motivation, which leads us to conclude that in our country these things must be solved only by a strict penalty measure. All developed countries have such practices, negligence and sloths severely punish and thus provide a clean environment for both present and future generations. It turns out that even though our children have a high awareness of environmental protection and nature conservation, because that's what we teach them at school, as they grow up, they don't always have a good example ahead of them. We have to give them that example, and if we can't be bound by morale, then more fines certainly can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45337	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zarko Bogatinovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45338	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today is a pleasure to participate in the debate in particulars of the Environmental Protection Act, since the town of Leskovac is where I come from, has three important ecological resources that we are proud of. It is a central wastewater treatment plant, which is the accumulation of Barje and the water system of Barje with a water factory in Gorina, and, of course, the regional sanitary dump of Željkovac, to which, next to the town of Leskovec and six surrounding municipalities, they bring and dump solid municipal waste. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law, in Articles 1 and 2, propose an exception to the obligation to conduct a public competition for the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, to prepare and co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance. What does that mean? In practice, the problem the town of Leskovac encountered in the implementation of a 10.4m-euro IPA-funded wastewater treatment plant project. As you well know, the city of Leskovac has successfully completed the first phase of the project, but in the creation of a second phase which had a separate part of the project had problems precisely because of the implementation of the public competition and the EU's demands that IPA funds projects be implemented according to a established methodology for such a type of project that our legislation does not recognise. We had to select the bidders, cancel the engagement, because there was no possibility of preparing the tender documentation properly, which led to the withdrawal of the schedule for the realisation of the project itself. Joint efforts, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia and the town of Leskovac, as partners on the project with their engagement, completed tender documentation and selected a contractor, with which a project was signed in April 2017, to build a second phase of the wastewater treatment plant in Leskovac worth 3m euros. In time, Leskovac observed the needs of his fellow citizens, had a vision of contributing to the protection of the environment, sustainable development of the city, and contributing to the creation of a competitive economic climate, and being an example of good practice to other local self-government units in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the town of Leskovac is like a small town that local self-government can praise that it has a high degree of built municipal infrastructure, water supply, sewage, waste water treatment and waste management. As is known, Serbia is now cleaning up only about 8% of municipal waste water, and by 2041 the plan is to fully agree with European standards for this area, which means that over the next 23 years it is necessary to build 320 facilities to clean up waste municipal waters totaling about 5 billion euros. In March 2016, all works on the modernly equipped wastewater treatment plant, representing the first phase of the project, water lines with partial treatment of mud, were completed at the mouth of the South Morava Windernica in the village of Bogojevce. The second phase, the completion of the mud line covers the dysestimation of mud and the production of biogas during realisation. Local self-government has provided communal conditions with all of this financially from the aspect of providing funds for conditions, consent and permits and full administration. The third phase of the project is to expand the sewerage network under the ORIO project, the Dutch government of 8m euros, and the project covers the construction of a 90km sewerage network, 16 suburban settlements, which will create conditions for about 20,000 inhabitants to be connected to the network. I can now proudly say that on Monday, 8 October 2018, an officially signed Agreement on the grant of free funds for the implementation phase of the ORIO project, the construction of a sewerage network, the third component of the wastewater management project of the town of Leskovac, attended by the Dutch ambassador and, of course, the mayor of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45339	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Krlić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on the Protection of the Environment or Amendments and the addition of that law by some logic should be the least controversial political bar disputed law. This amendment only intends to strengthen and highlight the ecosystem and the development of ecosystems that should improve all living conditions or even better say the living conditions of our country. How important and important the development of the ecosystem is that all of our citizens and debates and in principle and my colleagues through the amendments have said a lot about it, but I am surprised by the fact that there is a place here to sow misinformation, sowing panic and concern in a part of the citizens. The amendments that I will defend in the further debate will have that very application to expose bad information. The last example of the abuse of information is the situation in my town of Zrenjanin where the largest investment of billions of dollars by the Chinese partner, the big tire manufacturer, arrives. Instead of sharing joy over the new 1,500 jobs, due to the success of the joint, the launch of a construction operation, the budget of both the states and the city and the fact that Zrenjanin will probably be the first city in Serbia to have no unemployed people in two years. There's a fear of what's called a so-called fear. The dirty technology, from the organic bomb that this factory will bring. We wonder, of course, what is the goal and what is the intention. We forget that in the city centre for years, the Tegum factory worked for decades, the rubber industry has a tradition in Zrenjanin, and no pollution has ever been recorded. That factory worked with technology far below the modern technology this new factory will have. Of course Tegum is missing even if it was a very successful firm at the time of the famous robbery privatisation after 2000. When you directly ask those who sow panic and fear among citizens where they get the information that this is about an ecological bomb, you usually get the same claim, that by-product of the rubber industry is tea, and the chaja destroys the ecosystem. The only thing that's true about all this is that tea has to do with the rubber industry, but it's primarily used as raw materials and it doesn't need to be a technologist or engineer to find out. It is used because of color and because of the hardness or softness of the rubber itself, and the chaj is produced in the chaja factory and as far as I remember there was only one in the great SFRY and in the vicinity of Zagreb, and I don't know if it still works. Then we ask ourselves, where are the limits of human wickedness and envy? Is it the sowing of panic and the need to raise citizens in order to maybe drive this big investor away, is it the price for political, material and economic damage, which wants to be applied from those brains without knowledge, expertise and any responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45341	National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Slavisa Bulatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45342	I thank the chairman. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, I submit an amendment to Article 1 in the sense of adding a new position 2 which reads - this Law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the development of environmental education. Environmental education is, in particular, the acquisition of knowledge, skills, habits and attitudes on environmental characteristics and environmental laws, among other things, an integral part of the educational-experienced process. Developing the ecological world, culture and opinion, through the ecological education of the population is very important, as has been shown in practice. In fact, Vranje has its own "Meteris" dump and it is the first sanitary dump in the Republic of Serbia, built in 2002, according to European standards, from funds collected by self-deliveries. The city of Vranje has faced a problem of wild wasteland years ago. In 2011, more than 185 locations on the territory of the city were mapped during the construction of a feral waste dump. In the meantime, we have been working to resuscitate the dumps parallel to the education of the population in the field of ecology, and today we can boast that we have a negligible number of wild waste dumps in the city, mainly in remote and unaccessible and rural areas. The education of the population in the field of environmental protection, in Vranj, may best be seen in the fact that the public company Komrad managed to reduce the amount of deposited waste that can be recycled and thus extend the working age of the "Meteris" dump itself, which was otherwise to be closed in 2017, but its working life has been extended for another five years. Also, the financial effect of selling recycled raw materials is not negligible. The main objective of environmental education is to create awareness among people that it is necessary to engage engaged in the preservation and protection of the environment. It is necessary to teach people to treat the environment correctly, not just to use nature as a resource. It is necessary to create new sustainable development models and to teach each individual that even small actions have a positive impact on the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45343	Thank you. On Article 1st of the amendment is MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45344	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Iola serious society, when it thinks about its overall development, has high hopes for ecologically sustainable development. In this case, our country is on the right track, i.e. the President, primarily leading such a policy as the Prime Minister and the current Government. So, first of all, environmental sustainable development and overall sustainable development. When I say that and when I mean it, I say we work and create in the present, and we think about the future. We're thinking of some generations that will come behind us. Since I like to talk about sustainable development, and the first pillar of sustainable development is environmental development, ecology, I won't talk about the discounts on our streets today, or the plastic packaging, or those wild dumplings, because for a wonderful miracle, after a year spent in Italy, when I came back to Serbia, I caught myself going down the street and picking up buttocks, collecting plastic bottles and putting them in a garbage can. My wife looked at me and said, "What happened to me?" It would be crazy for you to find something like that on the street. I won't talk about it. I won't talk about how much we think as a state and we as part of the government, we MPs here at SNS, that the city of Kraljevo solves through access-free funds one big problem, a purifier whose value is up to 21.5 million dinars. We're doing this project right now. We're not just going to solve the problem of cleaning up the wastewaters of the city of Kings, we're solving the problem of all those cities and municipalities that are beneath us in the West Morava Basin. It is primarily Vranjska Banja, Trstenik, Kruševac, all the way there to Stalac. So we solved one big part of Serbia. I'm going to talk about something, and I'm going to give you a few examples of what we need to learn about the future. I'm going to talk a little bit about the field of environmental education and education. I will mention, first of all, that smart people were still thinking a long time ago, back in 1809, Jean Batist Lamark said that because of objects that satisfy his current greed destroys everything around them and makes it predetermined that since the globe makes itself uninhabitable, it is self-rule. Is the modern man able to take responsibility for the planet and take everything he can to save both our species and our other species and the only home we all have - Earth? We'll see. In the next amendment, I will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45345	I thank my colleague Bojanic. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45346	Thank you. Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 1. I propose that amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection be added to Article 90b – this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to maintaining conditions in national parks. National parks mean the highest form of environmental protection, and in Serbia there was a long tradition of ecological conservation of natural resources, where individual writings on forest ban date back to the Middle Ages. However, such practice has been significantly neglected in the past decades. The economic crisis, poor country leadership unfortunately left a mark in the area of environmental protection. However, the situation has changed dramatically for the better in recent years. The government of the Republic of Serbia as the leader of reforms and in the area is making provisions that lead us forward. There are several thousand national parks in the world, and Serbia can boast of five that represent a great natural and historical heritage. In line with the need to preserve ecosystems and the natural environment in the municipality of Arangelovac, we are implementing a series of measures aimed at preserving our natural resources. A few years ago, we started a major action to take care of Bukovica Banja Park, which is one of the most important monuments of nature in Serbia, known not only for sculptures of marbles made by one of the three most famous of this type in the world, larger by numerous natural characteristics. We've done a lot to preserve the importance it has for environmental and environmental. We've started the biggest planting of trees and greenery in decades. Hundreds of trees and several thousand new plantations of flowers, decorative vegetation and bushes were planted not only in the park of Bukovica Banja, but also in other parks of the Arangelovo municipality. We've done new walking paths, and the value of the investment is about half a million euros. Our green oasis hasn't had a serious plantation and track installation since the 1960s. Also, the "Knjiz Milos" pavilion, located in Bukovica Banja Park, was renovated and was the first acidic mineral water fountain built of reinforced concrete in Serbia since the beginning of the 20th century. Nearly 20 million dinars have been invested for recovery, and some of the funds have been donated by the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, to which we thank this time too. The Pavilion "Knjiz Milos" won the most prestigious prize of the European Union a few months ago – Europe Nostra, for the area of conservation, the first prize from that area in our country, and the ceremony of the recognition ceremony was held in Berlin on 22 June. In addition, much has been done in the area of the approach to the top of the Bukul Mountain. In addition to the observation post, which provides a view of the entire forest, seven million dinars were invested, the first phase of the asphalting of the complete road leading to the top of the tourist center of the Bukulja mountain was completed in mid-March. The value of the works is 30 million dinars. There is currently a plan for a detailed regulation of the complex of the monuments of the Risovač cave, which has an immeasurable historical and cultural significance. The remains of ice - age animal species were found in the site, and the only cave in these areas found to be inhabited by prehistoric people. These examples represent only part of local self-government activities, in order to preserve and protect the environment, i.e. improving the conditions in nature parks and historical goods, in order to economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45347	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45348	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, and it reads: “Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which amends Article 90b of the Environmental Protection Act, adds a new position 2 which reads – This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to improving sustainable environmental development." Article 1 The draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act is amended in Article 90b(2). The Law on the Protection of the Environment, which states: “Article 90b point 16, ” replaces the term “Article 90b of points 16 and 21. ” Otherwise, Article 90b of the Environmental Protection Act prescribes that the resources of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia are allocated to beneficiaries of funds for the purpose of financing and regulating the environment, and based on a public competition announced by the competent ministry. In addition, this member of the law prescribes who may be the beneficiary of these funds, as well as the procedure for their assignment. It is provided for the exception that these resources can also be allocated without public competition, in the event of the financing of the activities referred to in Articles 90b of point 16 and 21 of this Act. It is the means to finance intervention measures in exceptional circumstances of environmental pollution, decultivation and recovery of polluted space, in accordance with Article 66 of this Act, as well as the resources of the Green Fund used for the preparation and co-financing, financed from the pre-accession assistance of the European Union, in accordance with the law, as well as the co-financing of projects financed from international development aid and other sources requiring co-financing. These amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act include meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and co-financing of the project from the Green Fund for projects financed from the EU pre-accession funds. My amendment is to point out the importance of this law, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of sustainable ecological development. The Serbian Progressive Party has given its programme a significant place to protect the environment since it has often been based on the exploitation of natural resources in the past, with major environmental consequences that, despite its declarative definition and positive legal regulations, it has been constantly in a subordinate position. In the voting day, I will vote for this law, as well as for the other laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45349	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Stanja Compirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45350	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the right to a healthy environment as one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of every citizen. Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established to regulate, ensure, ensure, ensure a sustainable development of the system of protection and improvement of the environment, protect and improve the plant and animal world. The environment is a set of natural and creative values whose complex relationships make up an environment, i.e. space and conditions for life. The Republic of Serbia faces major challenges in improving the environmental protection system, in the context of fundamental socio-economic reforms towards the market economy and civil society. This process involves improving the current environment and sectoral policies towards managing sustainable development protection. Environmental protection should be an integral part of social and economic development. During their activities that can be urbanization or exploitation, man changes the natural environment and often by disrupting the natural environment. By building hydrocenters, accumulation, ubiquitous forest, deforestation, the creation of dumps, man affects the change of entire areas. As a result of human activity, there is an ecosystem and climate change disturbance at local and global level. The quality of environmental protection shall be given special attention and shall be constantly monitored, air quality, water quality, radioactivity levels and based on these measures and results, protection measures and measures shall be carried out to monitor the effects of the measures carried out. And here we feel the rule of the tycoon government, whose rulers bought fairies and yachts, took companies into bankruptcy, worked on personal wealth, instead of investment in new technologies, leaving dumps buried with dangerous and heavy metals, poisoning land and air and poisoning our children. That's why we have to work to improve the wastewater management system and air quality. Well, and my amendment to Article 1. The bill goes towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the protection of natural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45351	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45352	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, I propose an amendment in Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is amended in Article 90b of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which adds a new position 2, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific reference to the maintenance of environmental resources." As we approach the EU, one of the areas in which we comply with all regulations is, of course, ecosystems. This will be an area that will bring our country a large number of jobs, and thus a huge number of jobs in the town of Novi Pazar. The notion of sustainable development is most often brought about in relation to environmental protection. The concept of sustainable development represents a new development paradigm, a new strategy and a philosophy of social development. The government of the Republic of Serbia stressed that education and raising awareness are one of the priorities in the environmental sector. Their adoption has established rules of conduct for individuals and organisations to protect the environment. The sustainability of economic growth in conditions of depletion of pure natural resources is becoming more complicated. There are numerous activities of state and non-governmental organisations around the world, with the intention of addressing the problem of maintaining the environment, in which the government of the Republic of Serbia is, of course, contributing. The proposed amendment will allow for more efficient funding in situations where urgent response is needed, when nature is threatened, but also in a situation where co-financing is the only way to protect the environment. Ensuring money is better at protecting the environment and thus ensuring faster development of our country and, of course, better at protecting economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45353	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Borka Grubor.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45354	The law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving flora and fauna conditions, the Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs. Ecology is a culture of life. Many, unfortunately, lack that culture. In order for life on our planet to be healthier, all of us enjoying the benefits of our environments, we must take care of how we treat nature and everything it provides. Otherwise, nature tends to retaliate, depending on how much we have sinned against its rules or how well we have done to it by our actions or by our inaction with it. As a man does his own personal benefit, he destroys the natural habitats of many plant and animal species, he also speaks of the destruction of the pond on the territory of Vojvodina. Namely, in the area between the Danube and the village of Belegis, there is a Metrinci bar which is the natural refrigeration of fish, a habitat of over a hundred swans, herbs, cormorants, wild ducks and many other living creatures that make up the population of the pond. For a long time, it has been considered a natural reserve of protected species of animals that settle it. She was protected by the state until the separation put the bar at risk. Due to the unauthorized expansion of the separation, the water supply in the Danube bar has been closed. Without water flow, the threat of the bar becoming dead and finally drying. The bar has been drawn on the map, and it's been there for a long time. An existing firm is jeopardizing the survival of the pond and threatening to destroy it. I ask the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Trivan, to conduct field inspection through his inspection services and contribute to the conservation of the natural resources of this precious wealth in that part of Vojvodina. This doesn't require much investment, it just needs a little goodwill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45355	Thank you, colleague Grubor. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45356	I want to assure you that we're going to deal with this problem, because, of course, it's inadmissible that, as in the Obedic Bar, it makes it impossible for these works and events to oscillate the level of water, which, of course, makes it completely biodiversity, actually disrupts the biology of that part. We will work together with the colleagues of Vojvodina to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45357	Thank you, Minister. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45358	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, my amendment refers to the maintenance of protected natural resources and I will refer here to the protected natural well-being of the first category, which is the Special Reserve Uvac. Of course, the Special Reserve Uvac extends to the municipality of Nova Varoš and the Municipality of Sjenica, but what I want to talk about is investment from the Green Fund, i.e. investment in projects, research projects, and in order to learn about the past and to preserve the present, but also to adequately plan the future in protected natural goods. I must point out that the Uvac Nature Special Reserve is the largest habitat of white-headed soup, otherwise one of the two remaining species of vultures in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, very important in maintaining the eco-system, because it feeds exclusively to wild-dead animals and thus prevents the spread of infection among people and, ultimately, makes natural recycling in nature. Also, I must point out that the Uvac Special Reserve is the largest habitat of the great dive. It is usually a bird belonging to a group of ducks and, apart from being the only nest in Serbia, it is the largest nest in the Balkans. I must commend the actions of the MUP in Sremska Mitrovica, which in February of this year prevented the theft of two males, precisely this type of bird - a large dive, in the area of Sremska Mitrovica. What I want to point out, as far as scientific research is concerned, is the setting of air-conditioning stations in the caves of the Special Reserve Uvac, above all in the Ice Cave. These air-conditioned stations were set up in 2016 in the project of the Nature Protection Institute, otherwise the project was supported by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and, of course, the employees of the Special Reserve Uvac. These air-conditioned stations, except for the Ice Cave in the Uvac Special Reserve, are also located in the Resavska Cave and Risovačka Cave, with the exception of air-conditioned cells being installed and cells that measure the shaking of the ground. I consider it a very important investment in scientific and research work, and the Ministry of Environment Protection, and in general investments behind the funding of the Green Fund, and I will list another project concerning the Natural Museum which is otherwise co-financed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which concerns sites, i.e. the discovery of 31st type of bats in the area of protected natural good Vlasin. This happened on 18 October 2017. Otherwise, it's a kind of Mediterranean rapper, it belongs to the largest type of bat that normally belongs to a group of mammals. Of course, I must stress that for SNS, healthy drinking water, healthy air, healthy land in direct correlation with the health of the population, and the health of the population certainly is the number one priority for SNS. Finally, I must refer to another finding of MPs of different forms of the yellow company. Who was the ugly one and who slandered, and for God's sake robbed the citizens of Serbia, and who works in the interests of the citizens, showed exactly the citizens in the free democratic elections and 2012, and 2014, and 2016 and 2017, giving huge support to Alexander Vukic and SNS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45359	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? The word is from LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45360	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People, to Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which adds Article 2 which reads - the law encourages the overall development of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the eco-system. Environmental protection is a very important topic, as it speaks of clean air, clean drinking water, health, climate change. We often put the environment in another plan and all topics are somehow much more important. It is important to pay great attention to the protection of the environment, and it is a good thing we are discussing this issue these days. It is very important that environmental protection funds are planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not only because the EU expects us to do so. We must do it for all of us, for our citizens, for young generations. One of the big problems we're facing today is environmental and environmental concerns. Many climate change, as well as most natural disasters, are the result of man's negative influence. We need to understand the importance of preserving the ecological system and the environment, and we need to change harmful habits. We have to work to strengthen the awareness of the citizens. To preserve a healthy environment is our duty because of all of us and our young generations. In voting day, SNS MPs will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45361	The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45362	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, speaking of amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment is absolutely certain that we are aware of the situation and position in which Serbia is located, both in the region and in the world. As much as we try to make progress and progress in this area, we realize that our efforts must indeed be greater and that we must work much faster. The area of environmental protection is broad and complex and everything that we must, above all as citizens, understand, but also apply in practice, must be instilled in our education, of course and basic education. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance in this process to include all segments of society and, above all, to raise the nation, and also to make legal norms and frameworks that we will approach world standards. The European Union pays particular attention to the issue of combating climate change, and for this, in practice, the political area sets out around 20% of the Union's budget in the period 2014 to 2020. The basic postulates that the EU relies on when we talk about Chapter 27 are just about the fight against climate change and three postulates, which I really want to draw attention to this way, and I will further explain why. These are decarbonisation, i.e. reducing fossil fuel consumption and actually reducing the EU's energy dependence, then increasing the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. The EU's long-term goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 95% by 2050, which is important to us. For this very reason and in line with the above, I want to give you an example of good practice and thus draw attention to the fact that there really are projects in Serbia that rely on these three postulates and are successfully implemented. In fact, an example comes from a city whose imperative is, indeed, the most serious, it seems to me, in the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to environmental protection, which is the city of Panchevo from which I come. Together, the local self-government of the city of Pancheva and the public utility "Breathing", i.e. the city's toplan, implemented the "Banat Sun for All" project or in the original meaning "Banat Sun for All", which was financed from EU funds through the IPA programme of cross-border co-operation Serbia-Romania, and its realization ended in December 2016. Since we are now in 2018, we really had a whole 2017 and 2018, which is ahead of us, to measure the effects and results of this project, which brings us into a situation, or in this case me, that I can really talk with pride about the results of this project. The aim of this project was to improve and modernise the heating system, in fact prepare sanitary hot water, which in the Pancheva heat this service uses around 3,000 users, at least it was designed for 3,000 users, but because of the problems that have arisen because of, I say, the prices of energy through some past times, users are really from the network, to say, so the jargon "seal" and Pancheva at this point around 2,200 users have used sanitary hot water. Not to mention that they are particularly troubled to use other energy sources because of the way the entire village was designed. For that reason, this project is also very important. In particular, we refer to the use of renewable energy sources and thus to raise the energy efficiency of this entire heat system. In the particular case I'm talking about, a solar field has been placed on a surface of 906 square meters in the Kođelj heat circle, where over 600 solar panels have been set up in their power, in size, and in their own way, unique in the territory of Southeast Europe, and I think we can really be an example of good practice, and it has been a pilot project, to be proud of this project and to really use all these results and experiences to which the team, which this project has carried out and implemented further, can also measure what is very important. So, in addition to financial savings, because from this previous exposure, I noted that the financial cost for this type of service provided by the Public utility heating, the annual loss was 200,000 euros, which is now reduced in this case, because we managed to reduce the consumption by 49% of the gas, which is why we have therefore reduced the emissions of harmful gases, i.e. carbon dioxide in this case, which was actually the primary objective of this project. I must point out that the project is funded from the reserve project list. The basic condition in the changed circumstances, which have found the decision of the city of Panchev, whether or not this project will be implemented, is that the deadline for implementation of the project has been reduced from 24 months to 12 months which, I say, was quite difficult, but fortunately, the project team has had enough courage and knowledge to step in and engage in this project and despite these circumstances which were indeed, I say, they seemed amazing to implement at that point. However, in order to talk about all this, about this kind of result through local self-government, and to compete for the funds and on all the funds that are, let me say, available, you talked about it and in principle debate, we really need to have finished projects, technical documentation. That's what we're really missing and I'm asking you to just budget in that sense, for next year, focus on that goal. But the condition of all conditions, I would say, is that it is our consciousness, and these and these projects show maturity and seriousness in our tendency to deal seriously with environmental problems and respond to them in the most relevant way possible, and above all, working in the interest of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45363	I'd like to thank my colleague Christmas. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45364	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment I have submitted has the need and aim to point first and foremost to the need to protect indigenous species, thereby contributing to Serbia's development in general, primarily through the development of tourism. The fact is that tourism as an economic branch has registered serious growth in recent years, and yet it is best to talk about it through figures. In 2017, the number of tourists in Serbia increased by 12% compared to 2016. Again, in the first five months of this year we have an 11% increase compared to the same period last year. How? Well, it's not something that comes from itself and something that fell from the sky. This is the result of serious work to establish political, economic and other stability in Serbia, as a result of working to make friends around the world in the West and the East, and yet they are the most responsible president of this country and government. To make that trend, i.e. If this law will contribute to that trend, we will surely support it in a voting day. My amendment, I say, needs to point out the need to protect these indigenous species. I'll tell you just one example, and that's an example of the Tiga Flower, probably the phenomenon that we've all heard of in Serbia, a phenomenon that is related to the last stage of the life of an insect living in a river near New Vienna. It was this phenomenon that put Serbia on the world list, namely Novi Becej, on the world list of tourist sights, and I think we have to insist on that. My amendment is only on this trail and has a symbolic desire to point out that, in this sense, this law also takes care of unique phenomena, unique species, which can certainly contribute to the development of tourism, and thus to development, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45365	I thank my colleague, Vujadinovic. By amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45366	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I would first and foremost like to support the amendment of my colleagues and to say that he spoke quite nicely about this unbreakable relationship that is needed, on the one hand, on the new and good Law on the Protection of the Environment, which needs a lot of good to bring about the development of tourism in Serbia. But I would use the time at my disposal, first of all, that since I didn't speak in the principle debate, to commend the bill, that, of course, in the voting day, I would support the law. What I'd like to ask you, dear ministers, is coming from the Forest, coming from Topola, and I'd like to hear from you when and during what time period will the Ministry support what we're looking forward to, first of all, the regional dump, which will cover the town of Kragujevac and the surrounding municipalities in the forest? I would like to hear from you, because this should, in fact, bring this step forward to the development of tourism in Šumadia, primarily wine and religious tourism, and on the other hand for cities and municipalities, until this dump is completed, which will be in the area of the town of Kragujevac, I say, cover all the municipalities in Šumadia, and something wider, will the funds be found to help the existing municipalities with the construction of the transfer stations, if they have contracts with the regional dump in Lapov and that are putting away the currently garbage at that dump in Lapovo, which has all the permits to work and other things? I would simply like to hear from you and, of course, to support all your efforts at the Ministry of Improving the situation that is at the moment, to support the colleagues who spoke of it all today. Of course you have the energy, but to find even more opportunities to fight for a significant budget in 2019 and to help us with all these efforts that local self-government is doing. Another effort I ask you to make and find the opportunity to force local self-governments who have not solved the collection of garbage in their entire area to do so. If they don't know or can't do it, let the Ministry do it, let it pay nicely from municipal budgets, because in this current situation we have certain municipalities doing it without others doing it, and then when the weather accidents happen, the floods, the water, that garbage from surrounding municipalities coming to us through rivers, streams and streams, and then we're all in the same basket, in the same awkward situation. That's why the Ministry has to draw the line once and say - municipalities, or you'll sort it out. Communal activity is the original work of a local self-government. Therefore, I ask you also to invest your energy and knowledge in this effort, and you have been the city secretary for a long time, you have done a good job, and I now expect that you will really help us, above all by local self-government to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45367	Thank you. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45368	I thank you for the support you're about to give to what we're proposing here. In short, Šumadija has serious problems to address the issue of not only municipal waste but also other things that concern proper management of our waste. We will do everything in our power to help all municipalities. Transfer stations to us, not only in Shumadia, and in other parts of Serbia, are a Solomon solution, until we put in place a regional dump, as you have noticed correctly. We are in a great hurry with the establishment of this system, because as I have said many times today, and yesterday, Serbia will be cleaner the moment when regional dumps are set up, because it will be necessary for those who operate on these dumps to actually get into the dump, because it is a profit for someone, and it is cleaner Serbia and there is no dilemma. In addition to the fact that we're going to have to provide rural households with waste disposal courts, with the power of regional dumps, we're going to do the job and we're the most committed to the job. The money I hope to secure in the next budget. In any case, I'm almost certain that with the new finance minister we'll have a greater understanding for our needs and, I repeat, the money we're asking the Ministry of Finance doesn't need the Ministry of Environment, that's the money that local self-government needs for these things that you're talking about, because we all know that you don't have enough money to solve all this. You will see practical moves that this is going to be like this because the meaning of Serbia's arrangement is, in fact, what you're talking about. The law allows us that municipalities that hesitate too much in what they do will no longer be able to hesitate. There are two reasons for that. First of all, the government's decision, which has been made that there will be no more hesitations and there will be no tolerance, and even if it isn't, I personally tend to make it possible for the Ministry to decide where municipalities can't agree on what they're going to do, to exercise all the powers that the law has given me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45369	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45370	Thank you, Chairman. I will relate to the problems mentioned earlier by counterpart Jovanovic from Topola. Also, I'd like to hear from the Minister about the problems concerning the Kings, I'm from the Kings. We were just talking about the dump problem. There is a plan in the King to build a regional centre, to build a waste treatment plant. It is not only interested in Kraljevo, but it should be built on the territory of the facility that is also interested in the surrounding cities of Trstenik, Raška, Vrnjačka Banja, as well as Paracin. The plan is to create a certain recycling hub in all these cities, to sort the waste, and further to transport it to the central facility. You are likely to know that the deadline for a feasibility study is until spring, I think March or April 2019. It's already done in the field, and I know that there are geomechanical tests in two locations in the territory of the city of Kings. I hope that at least one of these locations will meet the minimum standards that this facility will be able to be built and I hope that the feasibility study will also be done within the deadline, so that we can immediately start implementing this project afterwards. What we need, of course, is the support of the ministry, to support that we can provide funds from the European Union funds, because it would be really difficult if this project were implemented based on credit, it would be a huge burden for all of these cities and municipalities, it is five cities and municipalities, and on the other hand, we would solve the problem of waste disposal for the whole region and perhaps we would solve it, we would enter into a recycling problem, because they are certainly ready for recycling facilities in Serbia's territory, in this part of Serbia's territory. What I have so far on the ground is that there is also a certain resistance of citizens, who are not yet familiar with the benefits of building one facility, and surely there is a process in the next period where we will have to introduce citizens to all the advantages and positive effects of building this facility, and we expect the Ministry to help us with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45371	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45372	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The bill aims to especially highlight the importance of the preservation of indigenous species. The hills, the slope of Carpathia, is known for its beneficial climate, as well as for its numerous nutritious and medicinal plant species. Due to the wealth of Ornitofauna, Vrsak Mountains became an internationally significant bird habitat in Europe in 2000. Fauna birds of Vršački Mountains, which counts more than 130 species per lot of which is valuable and unique. The proximity of Karpat and the bond with this impressive and special ecological continent also enables the presence of species which are not found elsewhere in the nest in Vojvodina, such as mountain-snaps, mountain-climbs and snakes. More than 90 bird species nesting in the Vrsak Mountains, since rare and endangered, enjoy legal protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The plant world is very diverse. It's mostly weed, of which there's a special significance to the skeleton. On the Vršačka mountains there is growing: smrmek, black pine, pavet, Polish and hilly peaches, white grab, white and red clay, wild cherries, beech, Klen and millet. They're all indigenous plant species. It is precisely thanks to its unique position in the Banatian valley, the diversity of flora and vegetation, rich forest ecosystems, most of the forest area of this mountain is protected as a park of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45373	Thank you. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers and respected colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, which reads: "This law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the development of the conditions for indigenous species." Serbia is one of the leading countries in numbers of different species and a country with an enviable number of endemic species. The preservation of endemic species depends primarily on the preservation of habitats where endemic species can be found. In the far north of Serbia there is a reserve of lakes of unusual appearance and beauty of Ludog Lake. The rich flora, fauna, rare and protected species and the unusual space surrounding it have made Ludo Lake a nature reserve, but for Serbia and its kind museum in the open air. What makes it unique is the diversity of the plant and animal world that is inhabited here. In addition to the rich animal world, only 40 species of birds, 20 species of fish, the beauty of the lake adorns numerous plant species. The plant world of Crazy Lake is of great importance. I'll just mention some that are listed in the red book of the Serbian flora, it's protected katuns, the green trident that's written in that book. The Ludo Lake is a special reserve, scientists say, created a million years ago, the lake's eye formed. It was protected by law in 1955 for the first time, in 1994 it was declared a special nature reserve. The lake was introduced to the list of Ramsar areas in 1977. Because of its international importance, it belongs to the first category of protection. The surrounding area of the lake has been inhabited since the Stone Age, with about 16 archaeological sites. This beauty should be used by Serbia as a major tourist potential. Protecting indigenous species is the imperative of every country. Each of us needs to contribute to the protection of endangered species and habitats. We need to preserve that abundance that our reserves have. Save and preserve the environment of Serbia's biodiversity and beauty. We need to protect the environment for our own sake, for the rights of man to life and development in a healthy environment. I'd just like to say one more thing, seven kilometers from Ludo Lake is Palicko Lake where the Palic Lake's recovery has currently begun thanks to the German embassy, the German state that invested 6.5 million. The recovery of the lake will take several years, as the lake has been destroyed for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45375	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45376	I thank the chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dear ministers, esteemed fellow MPs, in this amendment's discussion, will address the work and responsibilities of the city's Novo Sad Environment Authority. So, the decision on the city administrations of the city of Novi Sad has educated the city's environmental protection administration. The city environmental management shall carry out tasks relating to: preparation, adoption, implementation of the environmental protection plans programme, preparation of proposals for determining the level of specific environmental protection and improvement compensation, continuous control and systematic monitoring of the state of the environment through authorised and professional organisations, information and publication of data on the state and quality of the environment, nature protection and protection of goods through the application of domestic and international rules and standards, the preparation and adoption of acts on the protection of certain natural resources, etc. etc. So the city of Novi Sad, the city's environmental protection administration, has one systemic approach to this extremely serious matter. The city administration coordinates incentives, assists and participates in the implementation of specific programmes. The city administration adopts a financial plan and a public procurement plan for the city administration and has strict control and control over it. The position and responsibilities of the city's environmental protection authority have been established by the decision on the city administrations of the town of Novi Sad. The attitude of the city's environmental protection administration towards the City Assembly is based on the rights and duties laid down by law. The City Board for the Protection of the Environment of the City of Novi Sad is obliged to inform the City Assembly, mayor and city council about the performance of the work from its work, to provide information, explanations and information from its work as necessary for the work of the City Assembly, mayors and city councils, etc. Finally, I would just like to point out that our amendments affirm the overall development in this case specifically in the field of environmental protection, and in the day of voting, I will support a set of proposed laws from the domains of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45377	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Minister, our biggest challenge is to reach high standards in the EU in terms of protecting the environment that are constantly improving when we have a rather difficult situation and when big investment funds are needed to raise the level of protection to sustainable development and improve the ecosystem in general. One of the biggest obstacles to sustainable development is the creation of huge quantities that pollute water, air and land. Uncontrollable waste management poses a danger to human health, biodiversity and climate change. By adopting standards, a new approach to waste management will allow for the revaluation of the economic value of waste and provide the highest standards for the protection of human health and the environment and thus certainly contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is in Serbia's plan to close and rehabilitate all existing dumps and build on a national strategy of 29 regional centres and finally become a resource. In 2015 it started with the construction of such a regional centre in Subotica, for the town and municipalities of Mali Ijoš, Bačka Topola, Senta, Kanjiž, Čoka and Novi Knezevic. The project is worth 24.35m euros, 20.15m euros was provided with EU funds, 3.2m euros were provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia, a million euros from the founders of the municipality of the regional system. You are Mr. Minister well aware of this project, you were recently in Subotica, so we expect you, since the system is ready for trial work to be put into operation, carry out a technical examination and conduct the handover. I say this for reasons because in 2015 and in all the municipalities of founders and in the town of Subotica there were serious doubts about the selection of performers and suppliers of equipment, with the question whether the system can be run and whether the performer has been selected in a regular manner. As regards the closure of the existing deposits of Novi Knezevac and in collaboration with the Institute "Kirilo Savic" prepared a project of rehabilitation and revitalisation of the existing dump and is ready to provide you with further treatment. Finally, the proposed changes and additions certainly need to be accepted because they are in the capacity to develop agriculture and provide our farmers and farmers with the possibility to exercise rights to funds from pre-accession aid for rural development, which we call IPARD 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45379	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45380	Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, as part of today's discussion, I would like to propose an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending Article 90b of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment is added to the new position of two who read – this law encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific reference to the protection of the environment. As part of this article of the law and its addition, I would like to talk about the special nature reserve of Gornja Podunavlje. This reservation is one of the Danube pearls of both Vojvodina and Serbia. It is the rest of the former blue areas of Podunanova and it is a complex mosaic of water and land ecosystems that make up several separate continents: Monostor butt, Apatinski ass, as well as the area of Strpca, Kozara and Karapange. Most of the reserves are covered by complex forests, and this is how preserved sources, original biotypes rarely meet in Europe as well. The special nature reserve "Gornje Podunavlje" is protected naturally by the natural good of the first category, which extends along the left coast of Danube in the area between 1,367 and 1,433 kilometers of its current. It should be noted that it is part of a large Risk Complex that extends through neighbouring Hungary and Croatia. In addition to biodiversity, Gornja Podunavlje adorns and authentic cultural heritage. As a result of the adjustment of life along the great river and its tempers, there were characteristic original customs, costumes, language, fishing tools, boats and specific dishes such as, say, famous fish stew that is best cooked and best made in the region of Bezdan, Bačka Monostare, Sombora, Apatino and Bogojev. And it attracts guests and so Gornja Podunavlje makes a very attractive tourist destination for all visitors. The Danube is with its flow and gloves, so-called "Dunavlja" and flood waters, we must point out, the basic seal of the Upper Podunavlja, so that the special nature reserve has become a significant center of biodiversity, where this wealth is seen in the presence of 55 species of fish, 11 species of amphibians, nine species of reptiles, 230 species of birds, 51 species of mammals, etc. Due to its exceptional natural values, in 1989 it was declared an international significant habitat for IBA birds, and in 2005 it was declared a significant area for IPA plants. It is also an integral part of the potential biosphere reserve “Drava – Mura”, which has been a wet area of the Ramsava Convention since 2007. The fishing waters of the special Reserve "Gornje Podunavlje" are excluded from the fishing area "Dunav 1", which is why a medium-term programme for the development of the promotion and use of fauna fish is necessary. Some species of fish are permanently protected in this reserve, such as, say, sea, lichen, gold karate, chic, then river river river cancer, etc. As a result, the five - guard service covers 24 hours of protection of this area, and volunteers are involved in the protection of these species of fish. In addition, the special nature reserve "Gornja Podunavlje" offers many different scientific – recreational – tourist facilities such as a tour of the walking trail of Strbac and Karapanja, a ride to the catamaran Dunav, a visit to the traditional Ribara, a visit to the home of "Mali Bodrog" with a cultural artistic programme of folk society from Baška Monošter, a visit to craftsmen, these are traditional old craftsmen as a boatman, rogozar, clompar, blacksmith. That's why we need to work to preserve this special reservation, as well as our overall environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45381	Thank you, colleague Granny. Dear People's MPs, before I continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the organization "The Youth Network – MANIFEST" who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome them with applause. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45382	Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few sentences and I welcome these young people who are certainly a very important link in protecting the environment. And in general, for the Ministry of Environment, the NGO has an exceptional importance. If something has worked this year in Serbia, it has succeeded in our bonding with the NGO sector and thank you for supporting what we are doing in the protection of the environment. I don't mean the Ministry, I mean environmental protection. Thank you for being here. As for the answer or at least the comment, let me say for the city of the King that for us the city of the King is an unusually important center and we know why it is so. To remind you that you are putting your waste municipally at the waste dump "Kulagića hell" and that the consent of the Ministry of Environment for the project of rehabilitation and recreation has been obtained. The project is over. We must also say that the purchased land for the expansion of the dump and in the course of the creation of an idea project of recovery and enlargement, as you have actually only touched it. Also, I have to say, this is one of the projects we want to prepare for IPA funds. I think it's going great and I believe it's going to be just the right thing to do. The rural areas are not yet covered, but we'll talk about it with the municipality's leadership. It's part of the story that's necessary to get rid of this. So the King can hope for absolutely better days. I don't know, it's been a few years. I've seen myself there with colleagues from your municipalities, and my associates, we've concluded that the wait is no more, that the waiting time has passed and that now is the time to work. Here, we're working together now, because together we're able to do that part of the job, like we do with Nisa and other cities. As far as Saturday is concerned, I must also say that the choice of performer who entered the job after the EU donation has just been made by the EU, and we will talk about it at some other time, and that our subcontractors, municipalities and all those who took part in so much trouble to complete the project. We, here, do our best to really be and be. There's no dilemma, because circumstances have changed, but we've changed, too. We're not the same as we were anymore. That, I think, has become an important factor to me, because they have also understood that we are seriously thinking about these things and that we will open all the things that can be a problem to the public. Therefore, there's no reason to wait any longer. The Ministry is absolutely engaged in this in both contact and joint work with local self-government about all of this and we are fully harmonised and we are completely at the same wavelength. I have to say, I think that the municipality should give him a confession that is significant for such a wonderful story of its own. Upper Podunavlje is one of the most beautiful pearls Serbia, of course, has. Of all the things you mentioned, I will only emotionally return to the sea and everything that is actually lower somewhere is gone for different reasons, Gerdap 1, Gerdap 2, etc., but we will not give up on the power of Serbia to convince that fish trails have to be made and that all of this is upstream of us, because it's eight from Kladova, we make nature the way it used to be or at least about that. I'll conclude by actually saying both you and your colleague before you that we here, among other things, when we talk about protection, we're actually talking about beauty. Should we say how beautiful our country really is and that we have something to protect, and for me it's an axiom, it's not proven. Thank you for speaking this way about Serbia in fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45383	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Babic said there are nine kinds of reptiles in Podunavlje. That's partly true. I know the tenth kind. As far as the environment is concerned, I also know the tenth type of reptiles in Podunavlje, they are "moral reptiles" and I have met them with character and part. To remind you that the ultimate patriotism, to remind those who didn't do it, is that it's top patriotism for me to defend the environment from my own government. I'll do it. They had not done so before us, although they knew that in the 20th century environment, at the beginning of the 21st century, the 21st man had done more damage to the globe in terms of the environment than all generations before, to its entire history. I'll say what they were doing, that tenth species in Podunavlje, which I call "moral reptiles". Someone would say “moral yellow reptiles, ” but those colors are not so important to me because there were more types of these colors. They're camels. That kind of reptile can also be Camelot. I believe that some of them may have now placed themselves in our ranks, but my God, I'm going to talk about the lead battery recycling factory in my city and ask if there's any power to punish this barbaric act towards the environment in the Indji municipality? To remind me, and I have spoken of this many times, "moral reptiles" to get an apartment in Vienna were able to kidnap land from the cooperative and translate it into natural persons, the local authorities. In order to resell it as expensively as possible, on that land where wells, where the waterfall, which was then a regional waterfall, had even changed the spatial plan, forged the number of plots. They were caught in all of it, but they still managed to build a factory for recycling lead batteries on Indji's water catch. Does anyone have the strength to punish, as I have already said, that barbaric act towards the people of India and perhaps beyond? There's an environmental incident at any moment. The fact that they have received appropriate permits in this way is a problem for the former authorities, but it can be a problem for these or some future authorities, because we don't know when the consequences will occur, because wastewater doesn't even go into the sewer. A mile from the center of Indjia, on the water catch, I'll say again, the Lead Accumulator Recycling Factory, which has a connecting channel above the water catchment area and wells in which waste water is placed. I'm asking you, on the subject of an ecological incident, I don't know which government will be, but, I said, top patriotism defends the environment not only from the former government, but also from its government, if necessary. So I ask the Ministry and the Government to punish the act that took place in India, prevent and pre-warn the possible environmental incident, which may occur thanks to the moral reptiles of the tenth species in Podunavlje. They need to get in the way. That tenth species that threatens the environment with full rights should disappear from the globe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45385	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45386	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, among the positive results, i.e. the positive consequences of the adoption of this law, have today been spoken of by the MPs of the SNS, without a doubt, are the mechanisms to ensure the co-financing of those projects financed from EU funds, on the other hand, the fulfilment of the conditions to compete with this country's success in the IPARD funds, therefore, right in the area of agriculture. For both of us, of course, it's important. It is also important because of the success of our country, because of the success of our producers. It is not only about the famous 160m euros of defined support funds. The idea is, of course, that as a value, a lasting value, you make a lot more. It is also important because of our overall relations with the EU countries, but also with all those who are closely following the bandage of these relations. Investors as very important and very good messages always accept the fact that Serbia is recognised as someone who successfully copes with the challenges of Eurointegration and thus shows that it knows what it is doing. Among other things, the fact that more than half of all the investments that come to this region end up in Serbia is a direct consequence of the fact that we are successful in this process. Of course, not only on these issues, of course, not only in the area of agriculture, Serbia shows this relationship beyond European space. These days, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic is staying on an official visit to Kazakhstan. Among the most important messages we have received we can classify the fact, therefore, a common finding by the two presidents of the states that they have already achieved extraordinary results in terms of inter-state co-operation in the area of agriculture, of course with those related to co-operation in the military-technical sector. Furthermore, there is a good space to increase the export of dairy products from Serbia and the export of meat products from Serbia, to seek long-term solutions for our "Petrohemia", a top important issue, and to attract investors from Kazakhstan, to take an additional interest in Serbia, but also in the agriculture sector, therefore, it can be seen. We and in this part of the world know very well what we want, we know what we're doing, and we find a good place to do it. A week or two before that, we could hear these messages from the People's Republic of China, where the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic was also present personally and where, among the good results that we then recorded, there was also the fact that there would be additional space for the export of meat products, which some have welcomed here with already famous laudian behavior and completely unintelligent attempts to make bad jokes. You know, when someone for the state of Serbia, for our producers, provides extra space for more exports to such a large and significant market as Chinese, some people find it funny. You know who, those great experts, first of all, for the economy, but also experts for all living, like Dragan Gilas, who here these days explains to the IMF that he knows how to interpret economic parameters and how to move properly, and the IMF has no idea. He will teach them today and teach them that he is absolutely right, and the IMF is wrong about the same cost to explain to them that in 2008, when the IMF explained that what they are doing to Gilas and the team is not good for Serbia, that they have already been overly burdened and that new spending burdens, without any sense, can only be taken away by the IMF, and Gilas claimed that it was all perfectly fine, normal, and that there is no danger, are now likely to explain to the IMF that he was right then, and the IMF had no idea and that half a million people who ended up on the street are actually supposed to be grateful to him. So, these farts and these issues concerning Serbia's place in the world and the successes that Serbia is making show what and how much they know or don't know. In the meantime, Serbia is serious about its benefits. And by improving exports and improving economic co-operation, it defines its place in the world by defining the meetings of Alexander Vukic and the world's statesmen from both the East and the West at the highest possible level, it shows that it knows to protect its interest, shows that it knows how to elect its place, so to speak, to become successful and by respected society, all the opposite of that sad, relaxed and to the end of the robbed DOS Palace society, as Gilas and the team only knew how to make in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45387	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45388	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 concerning the Law on the Protection of the Environment, where I have always told my amendments to put an accent on developed areas, on mountainous and mountainous areas, on environments such as the Svrlig municipality, such as the Bela Palanka municipality, the city of Nis and the environment, southeastern Serbia is a truly beautiful place for life, where nature has given everything where we have to preserve this nature. I've always talked about it, and I'd like to, in the context of this amendment, because I'm putting an accent on the protection of the environment, on the ecological potential of these environments. I can safely say that the ecological potential in our environments, where Nis is like the centre of Southeastern Serbia and the surrounding municipality, is a great opportunity for tourism, tourism development, but on top of that, we need to put a much more environmental emphasis. We have big problems like local self-government in southeastern Serbia, big problems with budgets, because these are small budgets, and investing in the environment is one bigger venture. In particular, a large number of our small municipalities, such as the municipality from which I come, Svrljig, such as Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities, do not have the opportunity to provide funds within their budget to do certain projects with which they can apply to EU projects tomorrow and thus provide themselves with a better and better environment, where people can finally and finally deal with and tourism, that there are no deposits, small dumps in our villages, to solve the problems of our rivers. For example, the Timok River, which passes through the Svrlig, which is a really beautiful river, in the part below the Svrlig, we don't have a wastewater collector, so we have started a project, but we don't have enough resources to finish this project, and finally, and we realize this project. I think we would have the need to provide more resources within this ministry. And my question to you, dear ministers, is whether in the next period your Ministry will have the opportunity to allocate more funds for our small environments, that through these projects that we can realise tomorrow, to provide a better environment, and therefore a great opportunity for the development of rural hunting tourism and other types of tourism. By the way, the community I come from, the White Palanca, Gajin Han, these are the municipalities where the truly beautiful environment, the beautiful nature, has the Old Mountain, which is located in the part of my municipality, has the Dry Mountain, which is located in the part of Gadji's Han. These are really beautiful things that are made up to enjoy. I invite you, all fellow MPs, to put an emphasis on the development of such environments, on the development of such small municipalities, on the development of Nis, because we are witnessing that the city of Nis really has the capacity. It's working and it's investing in Nis. Finally, when all this is done, with the development of small municipalities, our agriculture, our villages, mountainous and mountainous areas, there will be development, I'm sure, our countries of Serbia. Serbia is the most beautiful thing in the world. We have to keep it safe. Nature has given us everything, let us preserve nature and, distinguished ministers, please answer me – is there any possibility of more investment in small environments for projects that solve problems in our environments, in our small municipalities? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45389	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45390	Gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, it is the intensity of my amendment to link environmental protection to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. In other words, it is clear to everyone and I hope that you will agree with me that there is no effective protection of the environment if we do not have a successful and developed economy. Some colleagues here, both from the authorities and from the opposition, talked about how we need more money in the environmental budget, and I agree with that, but that money cannot be done if we don't raise our economy to an even higher level and if we don't continue further reforms, when it comes to settling our public finances. What I want to point out, and I think it is closely linked to the larger environmental budgets of the Republic of Serbia, is several economic and financial indicators. Serbia has progressed 50 places in the World Bank's Duing Business List over the past three years. For the third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget and in this year 2018 GDP growth is expected from 4.5% to 5%. This says that Serbia is on a good path and that we will certainly have more money in the coming year and in the coming years for funding in the area of environmental protection. My colleague Vladimir Orlic has already said something about it. I just want to get over myself. The president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic has been visiting a friendly Kazakhstan for two days. One of the topics that is discussed, in addition to those political topics, is that Kazakhstan is a friendly state for us that recognises the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, one of the topics discussed is the revision of our Treaty with the Eurasian Union, and it is about the duty-free export of certain types of products from Serbia to the market of more than 185 million people. It is Kyrgyzia, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, and the following products are: certain types of cheese, then animal meat and cigarettes. What is also important, which is that the president of the Republic, related to the revision of this agreement with the Eurasian Union, has said, even insisted on that word, so he literally asked President Kazakhstan to allow the import of 5,000 cars from Serbia. As you can see, every day, the President of the Republic together with the government takes very important steps to make the Serbian economy even stronger, even stronger, to be absolutely a leader in the region, as far as attracting investment is concerned. Speaking of investments, a fellow member of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, who comes from the Kings, I think he missed out on saying that tomorrow there will be a opening ceremony in the Kingdom, or a ceremony to mark the beginning of works for the construction of the new plant "Leoni", a cable factory in the Kingdom. This is important news for the citizens of the Kings and the entire district of Raška, since it involves hiring a large number of workers from the Kingdom and the environment and opening new jobs. What concerns, however, is that whenever good news comes to Serbia, whether they come from the West or this time from the East, there is always someone who wants to spoil the good news and who is not looking forward to the success of his own country. So, when all this was happening, when Aleksandar Vucic spoke to the top representatives of Kazakhstan, among other things, and on important economic issues, the President of the Independent Society of Journalists of Vojvodina Nedim Sejdinovic, who said Vucic is starting a new season of witch hunting, but this time this hunt will be, he says, systematic and cruel. I now quote what Mr. Sejdinovic said, who is not looking forward to the economic and political successes of his country: "I think the statement by Vukic is the announcement of a new season of witch hunting, foreign mercenaries, traitors, mujahedine, Ustasha, foreign service agents, moles, etc. and that this time the reckoning will be systematic and cruel." Sejdinovic said in an interview with "Truthnomer". Next, he says, the entire Vucic infrastructure... I quote what the man said yesterday, not realizing where he is, not realizing that Serbia today is one of the most successful European states, that we are third at the rate of growth in Europe, that we are a politically and economically stable state, that we are a democratic state. Nedim Sejdimovic says on all of this: "The entire Vučić infrastructure is a deep xenophobic, anti-Western, nationalist and pro-rust infrastructure and it is a matter of days when the Putin's methods of establishing and maintaining a more or less open dictatorship will start to apply here and not to quote further a man who does not deserve it. I want to tell you that obviously we are dealing with people who do not want well with their country, who want to bring fear and unrest to citizens and who want to corrupt everything Serbia has done well in the past few years. I hope the citizens of Serbia understand well that they understand who works every day in their interest, who is willing to stay in Kazakhstan for two days, to open at seven o'clock in the morning the first store, behold, waving hands of an opposition gentleman, he probably sleeps at that time, so that two days the President of the Republic will be in Kazakhstan, but tomorrow morning he will open the first Lidla store in Belgrade, and at 1600 hours will be in the Kingdom, where the beginning of works will be marked to build a new plant "Leoni" in the King. When you have all this in mind, then these statements by Nedima Sejdinović, who is obviously a spokeswoman of the so-called. elite, democratic, western Serbia seems simply amazing. I hope that the citizens of Serbia understand well who is working in their interest and who is doing nothing, who is spreading panic, misinformation, who sits on his hands and every day only complains, criticises, and in his life for Serbia has done nothing good and, not that he has done anything good for Serbia, has done nothing good even for his profession. He brought it down to the lowest possible level, as it is seen from the dictionary that serves those who claim that media freedom is at stake in Serbia. Here are the most difficult possible insults to the expense of MPs, not only of Mr Sejdinovic, but of other people who belong to them, to say, the intellectual, media and political circle. The other day, Rodoljub Sabic, I even got his answer to my parliamentary question, called me a liar again, told Marjan Ristic that he was a poor, lying thief again, and here yesterday, when Aleksandar Vukic in Kazakhstan negotiated to revise a contract with the Euro-Asian Union in order to strengthen the Serbian economy, in order to strengthen among other things the Serbian peasant, Sedinovic mentions some witch hunt, on the part of mercenaries, traitors, mujahedine, Ustasha, foreign service agents etc. He never used such a dictionary, he never threatened anyone, but every day, at the expense of us and the SNS, at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia is getting the worst possible insults. However, regardless of which, Mr. Minister, you will have the support of the SNS parliamentary group and when this law is passed and when taking all those important measures, which I don't think are simple at all, which are difficult, which require one systematic approach, you will therefore have our support that the environment in Serbia is healthier, it is better to leave Serbia in future generations and when it comes to protecting the environment, better than it is today, but I also hope that you will understand that there is no healthy environment without a strong and strong Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45391	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45392	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, dear ministers, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I submitted an amendment to highlight the importance of preserving and improving environmental conditions in Serbia. Priority must have human health, we must influence air conservation, water quality, as well as toxic chemicals used. According to the World Health Organization, we have data that 20% of mortality in Europe is affected by the environment. That's a huge percentage, and that's why we need to take action as soon as possible. We need to have continuous education, as children from primary school, adults, but above all the system. The most important thing is to start educateing local self-governments, cities, municipalities, because of all of them. They're the ones who are in the field and who are with the citizens. How long the EU accession process will take, we cannot know this, but Chapter 27 is important because it makes us take this area more seriously and makes us come to some solutions as soon as possible and work harder on it. The colleagues talked about the dumps, you also mentioned why Serbia was polluted, why rural households were polluted, you made certain solutions that only one bucket, a cube of opportunity to behave frequencyably, to have some impact on improvement. It's a significant fact that there's been this solution, and I don't know if that's it, you're going to tell me if it's difficult to implement, because it would bring significant results. In line with that, I also wanted to, I don't know if you remember when you were in your office, as city secretary, the Voždovac municipality had an eco patrol, I was in charge as a member of the council, among other things, of a lifestyle resort, and these were small steps towards helping the community of life. I'm not saying that at that point we were educated enough to do this, we think that local self-government should be educated even better, but the eco patrol system gave some results, because citizens appeared constantly, made some proposals, and reported where the waste was located, mostly areas that were not under the jurisdiction of JP Green Belgrade, and there should be some system solution to how these surfaces were maintained. I don't know if there's been a solution so far, but it's mostly highly polluted surfaces, even some new parks, let's just say, wild parks where kids were playing are highly polluted. Eco patrol went out on the field every day. We had a service that received calls and already the next day we had people on the ground and it had a significant impact on the awareness of the citizens who were there. The neighbors went out to help with the work, etc. It's one way we've taken a little step, but we really need a system solution. I hope it's soon to be someone and adopted. At the very end, I would like to commend the intention of those 40 million who will invest in shaming. It's a burning area when we talk about protecting the environment and I hope you'll continue on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45393	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45394	Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of initiative that you've presented earlier is an effective example of how the state can never do it alone and how, with the help of citizens alone, it can make up for the part for which no country in the world has the capacity. So the story of environmental patrols is potentially very important, at least to me. I used to be in years when I was pretty young, doing this job in NGOs, understanding the good that cornered us citizens, unlike those in the state. Everyone here has a part of the job. Well. What I'm trying to tell you is that we intend to try to do something similar at Serbia level. We're trying to think of it now in a way that makes sense, to provide logistics for all of it. Today the technique has progressed, mobile phones, etc., the biggest problem in the whole thing will not be, but what you, not just said, have alluded, and this is a question of lack of system solutions. Just one of the missions of the Ministry of Environment is to try to get all the ministries involved in what we're doing. It's also the hardest job standing in front of us. We wouldn't have harmonised many legal solutions. One of these solutions that is an obvious example for all of Serbia is the question of, say, ambrosia. You cannot solve the issue of ambrosia because there is no adequate regulation in the country or what exists is not respected enough on the ground, therefore, in practice, which is that every owner of the land must take care of the condition of the parcel he has. So these are solutions that must be applied, i.e. have to be applied. In that sense, we, counting on new technologies, digitization and everything that is now available much more than five, six years ago, want to do. I think we're going to score a full shot here, because a huge army of young people like those who were here today wants to participate. Your experiences are like this, I know them very well, and not one country can have enough inspectors to solve every question on the ground. That's why every citizen in this country needs to be an inspector. If we were able to do this, we'd be able to do a real example of hazardous waste where we had dozens of citizens who were worried, without complexes reporting locations where they thought there might be something about that guy that polluted the environment. So this is what I'm giving you for right and I'm saying, well, there are local self-governments and part of civil society in our country that understands what we're doing and what a great help it is to our country. We will apply it based on our experiences from Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45395	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45396	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, I will agree with one of your findings yesterday that we will not recognise Serbia for a while. Obviously, it is high time that we decide what Serbia will be like in five or ten years, whether it will be Serbia that we claim to be with it because it is beautiful, healthy, clean, with clean air, water or becomes a dump. That's what we all deserve. You'll agree, I'll tell the People's Dictionary, the garbage in Serbia has accumulated in every form possible. This isn't a single-level action you can run. I agree that much lies on local self-government, but you will agree that much lies with both the ministry and the people who work in and with the ministry. You know, it seems kind of pointless sometimes when you see the enormous efforts of the EPS to say in Obrenovac, where I live, so I'm most familiar with it, to initiate a desuppression procedure, or to come, practically ensure the detachment procedure, that the electrical filters work in the best possible way, to reduce pollution, and on the other hand we have that in Obrenovac, everyone knows in Serbia, over the past year, dig up dozens of tons of dangerous, I say, toxic, carcinogenic waste. You know, Serbian citizens love Serbia and that's what's not controversial. And each of Serbia's citizens, I'm sure they'll help both the ministry and local self-government and everyone, just need to explain the methodology for how to do it. But Serbian citizens cannot do what needs to be done and inspectors have to do it. I'm under the impression that a little conformism exaggerated in inspections was and I hope something changes and changes in that direction. You know, if your inspector meets his quota and norm by writing applications that he doesn't have to come out of the office at all, looking at the parameters that are delivered from various public enterprises, because they respect it, they're obliged to do it, and he didn't send the roads of dangerous waste, he didn't send whether the dangerous waste that entered Serbia ended up in Obrenovac, in Topoli, buried there on someone's property, or if it was dangerous waste that came into Serbia buried in Serbia, or burned, or destroyed, he didn't do anything good. Public enterprises in Serbia, I have no intention of protecting anyone, can and do as much as the budget allows. Persecuting them is pointless. In doing so to make a career and be brave, and the burden of responsibility for notifying and monitoring the monitoring of citizens, you will indeed agree that it is wrong. I'll accept a partial explanation that there aren't enough inspectors. Look, we'll support you getting more inspectors, but it's the inspectors who are trained to escort the path of dangerous waste from its origin or entry to exit or destruction. It can't just be done by Serbian citizens, they can be supportive of it all, aware of it. And in order to be fully aware of that, I think you should suggest to the government that we seriously consider whether an object called ecology and a healthy environment should be introduced to first grade schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45397	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45398	Thank you. I'm the act of opening up a question of hazardous waste to me who's been doing this job for more than 30 years, not business, is a move that's the move of someone who knows what they're doing. And sometimes underestimating that kind of activity, I have no intention of dealing with that kind of speculation, and why we're doing it and why we're doing it right now and how we want to do it right now. My answer is to that – and what have we done for 30 years or more? So I know what I'm doing, absolutely. And somewhere there is always the beginning in us that are in the administration of states and questions – and what you are doing, like what you have alluded. The second question - who is dealing with dangerous waste in Serbia. You don't have too many subjects dealing with dangerous waste and it's very simple. I'll say it again. When you take how much hazardous waste is generated in Serbia, this application to the Environment Agency, let's start from the fact that everyone hasn't exactly reported how many dangerous waste generated, given how many warehouses, care and exports are missing, I repeat, you conclude that there is a serious amount missing. And then you realize that you have to deal with those who are registered to deal with dangerous waste. And if you ask me, the Waste Management Act or the specific waste streams that regulates these questions that we're talking about, it's great, because nobody in the chain is amnesty from having to be informed about what happened until the waste is taken care of. Well, there's the problem. Problems can't be solved overnight, since I have as oxygen a great need to significantly increase the number of people in the inspection, especially by bringing in brand-new people, for hundreds of different reasons. On the other hand, we, the moment we realized that a good part of our problem was generated by those who manage hazardous waste, got into control of all the companies and companies that are dealing with precisely the management of hazardous waste, and we are now in the control of all these companies. There aren't too many of them, out of about 115 companies that are even registered to do this, they operate on us about 20. It's not a problem to control it all. But if I were to go back, in the years behind us, the question is how companies that are registered to deal with hazardous waste were given consent and permission and whether those who are competent to verify whether anyone has conditions to deal with hazardous waste have. Now we're gonna have to check all that out. Still without my desire to go back and make me exorcise any justice. No, no, no. I will exorcise justice for the time it is now and will be, which is that everything has to be by law, that companies that are registered for hazardous waste must meet all the conditions that the law has prescribed, and I repeat - I think the law is excellent, and then we turn everyone's attention and start dealing with these waste streams. Since we weren't able to do it ourselves, I knew it would be, at least for a start, until we got the capacity, I talked to my colleagues from the BIA and the D.A. to help us do it. We don't arrest, we don't file charges of this kind, we just signal what process has to be washed away, to make things clear. Because when you follow the process from the one that generates dangerous waste to the last minute, then you'll actually find out where the problems are. From my point of view, the problem is simple. Why he hasn't been opened so far – these are questions for some other people, not for us, but it doesn't matter and I don't want to go back to it. We've opened up questions. For the first time, the state is making judgments for a crime against the environment, and I assure you that thanks to the BIA and the D.A., we will continue to do this, and I will also be their political support, and I can see here that we have the support to make that order in the country, because it's a matter of health for all of us together. And thank you for running for that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45399	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Branislav Mihajlović and together by Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45400	Mr. Trivan introduced himself to us on the first day here when he spoke of the bill as a minister without borders. You remember, and here to remind you, he said that the job of preserving the environment is so important that it is not at all important for him to have all one thing, that he has great cooperation, as he said, with colleagues from the surrounding countries and that he doesn't care whether Serbia has problems with the border with Croatia, or whether Croatia is going to ask us, God forbid, to kidnap 11,000 hectares of farmland in western Baska, but, Minister today, we want to ask something else. How do you operate Ministers, I don't mean personally, but your Ministry, do you manage to work in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? What is your role and what are you doing, and do you manage to do something at the Char Mountain National Park? 'Do you know if you were doing anything, you weren't a minister then, three years ago, in the Municipality of Strpce Assembly, the majority of the assembly, and this local congregation majority in Strpec, corresponds to the congregation majority here at the level of the Republic of Serbia, is 240 hectares on Bezovica, the Tourist Centre of Bezovica, 240 hectares passed on to the Shiptars? Did you do something about it, and do you even know what's going on in the state of Serbia? So -- Char Mountain National Park -- Serbia, Bezovica -- Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija -- Serbia. If you have no problem communicating outside Serbia's borders, we hope that within Serbia's borders you have managed to find a modus to entertain these very important parts and resources of our country. You were also talking about shaming, how hearty you do it, and it's good if you do, even if that's one part of what you said, every planted tree is good that it exists. We have nothing against it, nor are we people who do not know what environmental protection is and how it should be handled, on the contrary. But again, the question, do you know, let's say, that hundreds of acres of Merdar forest to Kurzumlia were cut down. I asked various ministers here, from Stefanovic, Nedimovic, if anyone else, no one knows who's in charge, so it's Kursumli municipality territory. They come in nicely, they cut the forest, the private, the state, hundreds of thousands of euros each, the owners, whoever they turn to, no one knows who's in charge or how they can help them, obviously no one can help them. I ask you now, can you at least forest them, when you have failed as state authorities to protect the municipality of Kurzumli and those people who live there, will you at least forest them that part, so they have to wait for tens of years to be what the Shipatris stole from them, but at least to sleep more peacefully? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45401	Thank you. The People's MP Branislav Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45402	Thank you, Chairman. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, I suggested that Article 2 be deleted, so that I could explain. Compared to the existing solution, the proposed member extends the funding of projects to both the preparation stage and the project implementation phase. The solution is bad for the reason that an institute of unforeseen costs is being introduced in the realization phase. This is how non-transparent financing of the project is achieved throughout the project cycle. The question arises – what exactly is meant by the preparation of the project? What are those costs? What are unforeseeable costs? We believe that this wide-ranging formulation opens up a huge space for discretionary interpretations, and thus to abuses. The same member is also defined as point 21a, which is also another exception to the required obligation to conduct a public competition, which allows non-transparent co-financing of projects financed between national development aids and other financial sources that require co-financing. This is how it is achieved that practically all the funds obtained from foreign sources can be spent discreetly, that is, on the free will of politicians. We find this absolutely inadmissible, especially because huge funds are expected, as stated in the bill itself. We believe that the provisions of the draft law are merely the preparation and creation of legal conditions for the planned, non-transparent spending of budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45403	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with an amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marija Janjušević submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45404	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, I suggested that it actually be more precise when something can be excluded from the public competition, but the amendment was, of course, rejected. I fully agree with the previous speaker who has expressed doubts about the transparency of the allocation of budgets, and the bill's proposer has repeatedly refused to specify exactly when these funds will be allocated under certain special conditions, proves that after the adoption of this law, the funds from Serbia's budget will be allocated according to the minister's authority, i.e. one man in the state who abuses both the regime and the budget and everything else. You are here in an explanation even stated that another exception is foreseen from the required obligation to conduct a public competition. So, you make your own commitments and you break them yourself. Minister, you will allocate the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia untransparently and here you are by rejecting the amendment that I have proposed publicly and acknowledged. I think that in the follow-up to this debate, we will only show that the intention to steal money from Serbian citizens is because we also discussed amendments on the Committee itself in order to provide for some unforeseen situations, and my colleague from the ministry specifically listed what possible situations are, such as floods, fires, etc. But that's not what we listed here. Therefore, it is left indefinitely and the possibility of abuse is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45405	The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45406	Mr. Minister, scary crime is happening in the entire Serbia area. What we just started to mean is what's so-called. administrative line with AP Kosovo and Metohija, these are municipalities not only Kursumli, but also in the work of Leskovec and Leposavic, but the same situation is with me in Šumadija, in eastern Serbia. We have information that is absolutely correct, that about 20 million cubic metres of forest is stolen in Serbia annually. How will the government of Serbia and you as a minister of environmental protection prevent that? You, when you recalculate those 20m cubic metres at the market price that today is worth about fivem euros, which is more than a billion euros for future generations, for biodiversity, for the overall environmental composition of Serbia, as it should look in the future. Is it normal, Mr. Minister, that all your predecessors, when there were no of your respective ministry, say that inspection supervision is not in the jurisdiction of the "Serbishuma"? No criminal charges have been filed. Here, that's where the fellow lawyers sit. He raised issues of environmental protection, Mr. Jojic. The devastation of the forest is a criminal act. The penalty is one to three years old. No case has been prosecuted. There are several thousand criminal charges, a fine of tens of thousands. But you know what the biggest problem is? Here, Arsic is to say from the eastern part of Serbia. In Pogorevec, in Gradište, in all the cities of Zaguvica, there are a series of floods because the forest was cut, right? Then people are at risk, children are at risk. Who's gonna stop it and how? Is the solution, then, since we're talking about this member where projects will be financed so that it can't just pop up an oak so easily, plant, as the Chinese brothers say, a "dragon tree", a paulovier. We passed as a delegation along that fast train, but, of course, everything can be seen at that speed, from Beijing to Sudjo. The whole area was planted in a pauled, fast-growing tree, to prevent floods and to keep that people there, because in a few decades, ten or 50 million people have been transferred from one side of the country. It sounds amazing, but the Chinese can do it, because such erosions happen. Mr. Minister, we are humiliated by the Separatist Shipage Group negotiated by the state of Serbia in Brussels. I have to remind you that armed Shiplars are coming to the area of Kursumlia, not the kind of poachers you know who steal the woods, so they came on a trip like that. With guns, under full arms, threatening the local population, and then two years ago, Edith Tahiri said that the incredible repression of the Serbian military and police against those people, who, like this, steal the forest and I have to quote what that villain said -- and because of these things, Serbian society has to enter mental reform. Should we experience such humiliations and be left without a forest where we now have a total of 29% in the entire Serbia area. So these are all some of the answers that you need to give us, both the Resort Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I expect that if you take our arguments and all of this that makes the people suffer and suffer and many fear your life, you will take some concrete measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45407	The word has a minister, Mr. Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45408	Allow me in a few sentences. First of all, we have to stick to our jurisdiction, but the diagnosis that you've actually given is the ones that talk about having our forest cut off senselessly and I have to say not only there. As a society, we have to wonder what we're doing with it. That's why, here, on the public stage, a ten-year story of how important forests are and that we all have to take care of it together, and it doesn't have any political color when it comes to it. First of all, I said we are helping employees in the National Park "Shar-Mountain" in significant ways. We can't talk about all the ways. It's in their interest that we do it. Whatever you do, whether you have information or suggestion, feel free to contact us, because we are in charge of the Char Mountain National Park and everything that is in our power we will absolutely do still standing open and for every suggestion of this guy. There's no dilemma about the jurisdiction of the forest, and I'm sorry to have to say it now, even though it's true, there's an inspection by the Ministry of Forestry, so it's the forest inspection, and it's them who really have to take care of it. Of course, they have a whole series of their own problems, how many inspectors we have, how our border is porn, etc. So now all I'm talking about is jurisdiction. They're saying again, still what I just said, but before I say that we and how we want to deal with shaming, that's what I'm trying to do, now and at the Ministry. I mentioned Belgrade as an example of nine years we've been doing it, it seems to me very well, and the municipality of Kursumli has not reported this year to apply for the means of shaming, but we knew and believed that not all municipalities would be ready in this year to compete, but this is the beginning, we ourselves believe it will be the case. I have to tell you that our ambition is that everywhere we have these big cuts we really help with the noise. What I'm trying to tell you professionally is that we want to sniff out indigenous species, anti-cicipating climate change, and that's just fine. Well, the pauling can come into consideration in some other situations, that's understood, and you're absolutely right. It's cutting through the woods, and it's especially clean, as we say in forestry, it produces great difficulties and risks when it comes to floods and erosion. So, we would very much like the job of shaming to be in our jurisdiction, because here we are showing that for years, as members, I have to say so to protect the environment, and that we want to deal with it with it in a good way, because we already have some evidence of that. So the evidence for that is exact. Exactly that many hundreds of acres, exactly the competition that now moves from the Ministry's level towards all cities, including Vojvodina, which is only 7% forested, and there are actually open doors. We're missing that part of jurisdiction, it's a matter of convention now. A deal in the government that's going to work, I hope there will be an understanding of this, because we believe that we can do well because we actually treat the forest as a resource, not as a raw material, and there will be an expert debate in which we will see who and what arguments we will make. As far as we're concerned, we're completely committed to what you've been up to, insisting, I fully, fully support both personally and professionally and as a minister and as someone who's not going to be a minister tomorrow, wanting Serbia to actually be much more shambled, because you know 27% of how we're bushed is finally enough. But it's not. Serbia is seeking that the forested Serbia is optimal to 41%, so this is only the beginning. If the state adopts this type's strategy, as we have adopted in Belgrade, there is hope. If we don't do that, it'll be ad hoc with these questions you're asking, I'd like it to be a system. I'll do anything. We're not perfect, but we're doing everything we can. Well, thank you for that. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45409	You have no right to a replica of a colleague. How can I give you a replica when Mr. Secretary supported your presentation and interpreted you perfectly? The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45410	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law where this amendment sets out a legal provision aimed at more effective law enforcement - avoiding different interpretations. These additions allow for intervention in emergency situations and such as drying of forests, forest fires and other accidents and emergency situations. Green Serbia is very much in favour and is working to protect the environment. I will raise my concerns about the natural disasters that occur in forest ecosystems and protected natural goods of Serbia. An intense phenomenon of drying of the forests in Serbia began in 2012 in the form of a slow-drying of Chetinars on individual sites and smaller areas. At the beginning of spring 2013, there was a significant drying of the forests of the Chetinari, primarily in the territory of Tara National Park, Goč, at the localities of the Public Enterprise "Serbiasum" and in the area of the Public Enterprise "Vojvodinasum". According to the Forest Administration, the area affected by the acute drying in the Republic of Serbia included about 24 thousand hectares at the time. The report was then delivered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. According to the report, measures were taken to protect forests and their responsibilities under the Forest Act and other planning documents. The most endangered area was the Tara National Park, where the drying near the dish and death was affected and protected by a species of Pancic's submarine, which is the endemite of the Balkan Peninsula and a territorial relic. The total drying area is 6,000 hectares, and the most per surface is dried trees and spring. The problem of Pancic fatigue is multiple and dry-free because it is a relic and the endemite of our climate, and its threat has been the most contributed to drying in recent years and the state of its survival is alarming. Only at the “Ljuti krš” site of a thousand trees of Pančić’s 4,000 - tree seed dried 870 trees. Apart from these completely dry trees, a large number of trees are partially dry with a tendency to completely dry. It must be said that the Tara National Park has made timely access to the drying process and has prevented the situation from getting worse. There's a pretty well done recovery and the drying process has been slowed down, there's been a recovery for death and eating, the fatigue continues to dry because there's an armilaria sharper for which so far there's no effective measures on the larger surfaces. The preservation of forests, and among them Pancic's submarines is a national interest and a task, because we must not allow and take responsibility for the disappearance of the Tara fatigue, because if that happens, it would be a national disaster. Also, Goč has a drying of dishes, abies alba and beech, and the droughts of death and food are on the Kopalnik, and there has been a drying in groups that have spread to large areas in some localities. It's too late with some measures of recovery in the fight against the cartilage. It is now also represented that the drying of fours is especially smurfing on large areas in the Golia area, which is also protected by natural well-being. I note this because it does not happen now during this term or mandate of previous ministers, because it is one process that lasts another. I must point out that the previous ministry has done a lot to resuscitate such surfaces to stop these processes. I'll talk about the positive things we've done as a profession. It is mass shaming that was done at the end of the last century where the degree of noise has been significantly increased in Serbia, when over 100,000 hectares of youth labour and also so many more measures to protect against erosion by shaming or melliorating. These are all the measures that are then significantly taken to increase the degree of noise in Serbia, which, indeed, we must give recognition today, and it must in some way be a model for us to continue on this path and I am glad that you as minister have been potentialing this topic of shaming for a long time and as city secretary and now, because it is in some way a rescue, an ecological rescue for our country. However, what I'm saying is that important and adaptive measures are important for the ecosystems being taken, because the existing concept of sustainable use of natural resources, and therefore forest ecosystems are in crisis. In the development of a new concept of sustainable use of forest ecosystems, there must be answers to a whole series of issues that are certainly the most important research to help develop a strategy to adapt to climate change, because they are visible and what you have announced, the climate change law, too, which is good, which is an educational need to increase awareness of climate change and their easier adaptation. What do you need to know about the assessment of the level of reaction of the forest to climate change? What actions in forest management should be taken to avoid jeopardising ecosystem functions in the future? The adaptation should mitigate ecosystem sensitivity to climate change. Forest ecosystems have adapted themselves to climate change, but given the importance of forests for society, it is necessary to influence the direction and dynamics of adaptation in some areas. I would like to know what the Ministry and all other institutions in charge of protected natural resources are doing to apply these adaptive measures, to take some activities to mitigate climate change in national parks and other protected natural resources, as it is generally known that activities in the process of adaptation of forest ecosystems must be realized now in order for their effect to be complete in the future. That's my suggestion and suggestion to work on it in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45411	Thank you. The People's MP, Marjana Marash, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Lazic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45412	The respected chairman, respected colleagues from the Ministry, the amendments we have submitted concern the funds of the Green Fund, i.e. the way in which the Green Fund funds are used and, in principle, we welcome this proposal from the Ministry to use funds from the Green Fund to finance unscheduled costs, without applying the institution of the public call, but we felt that it was necessary to further further define this member more precisely and we added "unforeseen and added activities in the field of environmental protection", because we felt that it was necessary to strengthen practically. However, you have rejected this amendment with a sentence, it is said that for legal and technical reasons it does not comply with the content, although I do not understand it, but I see that other amendments have been rejected in the same way. So why, what was our motive for proposing this? In fact, the use of the Green Fund's resources is very important to help the use of European funds, because in practice we are witnessing that, for example, many municipalities have been able to use European funds, but because of the lack of those 30% or 40% of which are mostly about the need for private investment, i.e. investment of the municipality itself, they could not provide all these funds, and I think it is very useful to replace those funds with the Green Fund, in order to actually benefit from the available funds from EU funds. It often happens that in information you see that we essentially withdraw a small percentage of these funds as much as they are actually available to us. There is an impression that the EU is neither helping us nor benefiting from any of these funds, and in fact, the reasons are most often these because it is necessary to know that the responsibility of implementation is at the level of local self-government. I will remind you that since 2015, when the government passed a law that further reduces the resources available to local self-government, it figures out that practically one whole budget from that year until today has been virtually reduced, i.e. taken away by local self-governments, they definitely have a problem in implementing precisely these activities such as water protection, i.e. waste water treatment or investment in the management and definition of dumps or various other activities that are related to the environment. I will also remind you that the fund that existed from 2009 to 2012 was shut down by the arrival of this government, that is, this furniture to power in 2012 due to alleged machinations. In principle, I welcome the punishment of those who have sinned and who have abused the fund, but definitely the fund should not have been shut down, which the EU has put in its report as a remark that if I had recorded the fund well in 2015, the fund was re-formed in 2015, but now as a budget fund, which means that only part of the green money, I have spoken it in principle and I will repeat it repeatedly, only part of the budget pairs, the dedicated couples, used to invest in environmental protection projects. I think this is also an appeal to you that when you adopt the budget for next year, the budget fund, i.e. this fund, will be fully in the hands of environmental protection. It's the only way we'll be able to implement this clause of law that you've changed and that we welcome. I'm saying, basically, because that's the only way we're gonna be able to invest. I would like to remind you, in fact, of a very good example of the project that was implemented, which was directly related to the relationship between two resistors, i.e. agriculture and environmental protection, it may well be known to you that these were the funds for the DREPR project, i.e. the environmental protection project in the area of agriculture, i.e. the funds for the construction of habitat collection tanks on farms, then the waste water treatment systems in the slaughterhouse industry and the kafiliries systems. In the project that was being implemented somewhere in 2006-2011, data can be found on the Internet and the Ministry of Agriculture, which was the main contractor of the project, more than 100 farms have received systems for collecting stables, storage of stables, and then systems for the spread of that station to the field, all under control. Then, three slaughterhouses, three kafilariums and seven agricultural schools realized this project. Why do I mention him? Because 70% of the funds were donations from this European Fund, or the Global Environment Fund, and 30% had to be provided by the user. She showed practice that only those who were financially able to use those funds were able to provide 30% of them. If we were able to use the Green Fund funds at the time, that is, if there were opportunities for such use, I think the number of users would be higher and, although they say, the project was realised with some 95% of the funds, which is a very great success. In the mass of other projects, we fail to realize so much and not withdraw in the right way enough funds. One more thing, I would like to mention the possibility of using these funds or perhaps withdrawing from these funds, with this way of co-financing, in the area of raising windscreens, already spoken of by my colleague Gordana Komic, who, unfortunately, by adopting the Law on Forestry, stayed somehow longer, not to be covered resortly, and it is very important, especially for the territory of Vojvodina. I remind you that in 2015, in February, the Prime Minister, and today's President, Mr. Vukic, if you remember those junks in Vojvodina, which were in the winter of 2015, promised to be built, or to raise wind protection belts right along the roads along Vojvodina, throughout Vojvodina. However, nothing has actually been done since then. That is why I think it is very important that, for projects like this and for these purposes, funds can be used from European funds, but of course, with funding. And again, I urge you to fight the Green Fund to be fully in the hands of environmental protection when it comes to budgeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45413	The People's MP, Daniel Stojadinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45414	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and, as far as I know, the Government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45415	This is about an amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45416	Good, 'cause the correction's accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45417	Excuse me, colleague, who are you talking to?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45418	I'm speaking to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45419	Go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45420	Obviously, since we have been arguing for a long time, that the lack of political will to consider the topic of the environment to be vital to life is now in some way corrected and now going in some good, better direction. It's a good thing it's changed. Your task, Minister, is not only difficult, but it should globally interest the public and put environmental protection in the place it belongs to. You do it and you seem to be doing it well, because in the last year much more is said about the environment itself and the problems, and the problem is really much. Only the establishment and separation of this ministry as special, which I have advocated in the previous period, is very important, because this alone ministry has so much work to do, it's really too much to do besides that. For years, environmental problems have accumulated, numerous problems. We've even mentioned a part here, and we haven't been able to mention much, given how long this debate has been going on, and from waste management, from cleaning up waste water, protecting nature. And, indeed, there is a difficult task in front of this ministry. I would also like to commend the level of the organisation, i.e. changes in the organisational structure, because you now have specific sectors, as well as the sector for strategic planning and projects, which is also very important, which will provide material resources. It's an indication that it's going in the right direction at all, because without money, we know there's no movement in the environment and any protection of the environment. Another important question, given that I have participated in work and many actions, is very important to me, and that is education, meaning, education from the lowest level, from kindergartens, through high schools, because man learns while he is alive, so that education applies to all parts and to the entire population. You have our support. The SPS parliamentary group will vote to amend this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45421	The People's MP Ivana Dinic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45422	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, following the topic in general and all the open issues that exist with us and in the world, about the environment, following these days of debate in this high house, regarding the change of laws that you have proposed, it must definitely be our conclusion that it is not easy for you and your ministry today in Serbia. We meet, when we talk about this topic, about a kind of very important area that conditiones all aspects of social life, about something that has been left behind in Serbia, which has not been nurtured for years, which unfortunately there has been no adequate ministry, which has not been systematically followed, and I would say that conservation and environmental concern is the condition of all conditions. So much, absolutely every respect and respect for all those results you've shown since when this ministry exists, for your dynamism in what you carry, as you can see, to all other associates. I am sure that in the coming period this ministry, under your leadership, and I hope that in Serbia never again the Ministry of this species can be shut down, will actually give the results we want to see in Serbia, and that it will be, conditionally, to be the green Serbia, the Shumadi, the kind we have, as we want to keep, with all the advantages it offers. And finally, it is also a condition for sustainable population development, which is our top state and political goal. So, if we provide a healthy environment, we will ensure that the conditions in which living in Serbia are also better for future generations. The environment and the problems that exist over the last few years are being talked about more and more. There were not so many words about it before, simply because the environment itself was not as endangered as it is today. This life environment was much healthier and as an important condition of a healthy life, it was not spoken of this way until the moment it became seriously threatened. Modern civilizations, industrial development, traffic, various kinds of energy use and the creation of various wastes, have a negative impact on our environment and create an increasingly unhealthy, poor environment. That is why our obligation must be greater and more active and stronger. I therefore support the Law on the Protection of the Environment and all its changes, which mean improving relations, greater concern and responsibility to the environment. I also support these changes in the law that may seem small at first sight, but essentially means increased responsibility that must exist in every form of human activity, even in the protection of the environment. Any use of development funds must in any case have a part that is separate from the environment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in order to better identify and highlight the responsibility of the manufacturer, who, in a desire for an increasing contribution, e.g. in agriculture, they must also keep account of the responsible use of chemical resources to keep the product healthy, country, water and other circumstances healthy. Developed European countries have developed a system of environmental protection, identify and promote responsible behaviour, do not see it as a cost, which you spoke of, which is unfortunately present in less developed countries and poorer societies. Care about the healthy environment is prevention. She's always cheaper than treatment. Care about a healthy environment doesn't know the limits. She's got to be the concern of everyone, because the environment has no limit, she only has one policy. The healthy environment preserves the biological balance, it protects the planet and life itself. And, for nothing, what's known to the state's borders, when Chernobyl happened, he hit all over Europe, not to say the rest. Unfortunately, man’s behavior has largely endangered life itself, both water and air and earth, so that there is a need for great effort to restore that balance. What I would advocate in Serbia, these are in any case even more pronounced and clear goals in order to protect the environment, to ask questions and to seek greater responsibility for both companies and individuals, to develop and invest in education, to include the school system in order to preserve health and preserve nature, to protect forests, to protect water, to protect land and to invest more in green cities and villages and in national parks. It's a question, actually, of the culture of life. The ministry's successes for this time, of course, need to be mentioned again. To know for a short period that this is in any case provided transparent work by the Ministry, the discovery of illegal waste dumps, greater international reputation for opening Chapter 27, better waste management, reducing the use of plastic bags, forming a national body to determine the consequences of NATO bombing, whose head you are also, creating conditions for better use of pre-accession funds, equipping the National Laboratory for Water Control, Land and Air, increased charging of environmental taxis, etc. When it comes to that, my pledge is heading towards the emphasis of this measure, in order to develop an ecological consciousness, but also to make sure that all resources go right to the Green Fund. I also point out the importance of asking a question like this. species – what are and what do national parks in Serbia look like today, are we guarding or destroying them, are we silent about their abuse, the development of wild construction, and how do we safeguard this national treasure? I would also ask the question that probably an adequate policy that prepares for possible pollution, for example. Great mining areas of type Bor and Majdanpek, in terms of environmental protection, or what was in the public some time ago was the opening of new Jadarite mines in Western Serbia, that an adequate policy, because money must not be the Lord God, profit must not be Lord God, namely, clearly in front of all investors and their desire to make a profit, we must, in that sense, be responsible for the conditions in which we will live, precisely in terms of your policy that you implement. We can't have the bathroom tomorrow looking like Zlatibor, the example works. I appeal, therefore, to protect both as a healthy environment and as a protected habitat of plants and animals all these areas, and I think that this activity is multidisciplinary and that, in terms of protection and policy, the one you run, should certainly include the Ministry of State Administration and Self-Government, the Ministry of Tourism and Construction, precisely to ensure that all the measures that the ministry foresees are effective and to a sufficient extent efficient and far-reaching quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45423	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment, with the correction, did the MP Ruzica Nikolic submit? Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45424	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in previous discussions, we have pointed to the problem of wild dumps and the storage of hazardous waste, as well as the lack of centre for its treatment. However, nothing is a minor problem, i.e. municipal waste, which is mostly out of the control of local self-government companies. For Chapter 27 in the negotiations with the EU, you say that Serbia will bring closer to European standards and I would ask you accordingly – whether foreign companies, i.e. factories operating in Serbia and receiving grants of 10,000 euros for each job respect all EU environmental standards and regulations, and whether they are subject to inspection supervision? In addition to municipal waste, there are many other types of waste, and there is often smoke resulting from the combustion of this waste material and gases that are a product of decommissioning, which emits into the air and thus endangers the environment. If we know that 8% of the total number of dumps is located less than 100 metres from the settlement, we can conclude that the population in this case is threatened with direct pollution, so I wonder if the European standard is precisely that 100 meters away from the dump and the settlement?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45425	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45426	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has a number of legal regulations that regulate this area. When it comes to environmental protection, therefore, environmental protection is also foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, Article 97(1) of point 9 provides for a specific provision to protect the environment. In addition to this constitutional principle and the constitutional category of environmental protection, there are a number of regulations, such as the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on the Protection of the Air, then a number of sublegal acts, and in particular sanctioned by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. However, what is present and true, Serbia does not have an effective environmental inspection. It is to expect, Mr. Minister, that you take a step further, to carry out inspections under your rights and powers on the ground, what environmental inspectors do. Some environmental inspectors have become pets of polluters who collect, transport and deposit hazardous waste. You are expected to have to take a step forward to do something about environmental protection. So far, laws have ruled over environmental protection in Serbia. I can say, lawlessness. Run a check, ask for statistics on how many crimes there are, and how many criminal charges were filed by the inspectors, and where citizens filed reports, as is the case in Kovin. The municipal environmental inspector Bogos Tivadar on several occasions does not take any steps to protect the Lazar family in Deliblat, as the agricultural cooperative Agrolend Cereal has opened the plants, made the industry there and polluted the environment of citizens in the populated area. He's been charged with multiple criminal charges, multiple felonies. However, what is present and true, the judicial authorities do not apply the provisions of the law. First, the inspection does not provide timely adequate criminal and criminal charges, and secondly, criminal policy is a zero in this area. One more question I wanted to remind you – what about medical waste? In the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the issue is not sufficiently controlled and the issue is not given enough attention, as there is no idea which hospitals, which health institutions, institutions, where dangerous waste is being put off. Therefore, Mr. Minister, within your ministry, you must perform some reconstruction, and within your rights and competences, in cooperation with the province, you must resolve the issue of the Regional Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment and thus gain insight into what is done on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45427	The word has a minister. Mr. Trivan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45428	Dear Messenger, the pets of those who break the law will not be cherished. I suppose it's clear to all of you that what we've done over the past few months by filing criminal charges and first, not law enforcement, but judgments, verdicts that say that someone who committed a crime to the environment is first-degreed to 4.5 years in prison, should say that something has changed. So I personally think that serious things are changing, and of course, you who are experienced in the state administration know that it takes time for things to change, but it's also necessary that you just point out where we should pay attention in order to really improve the system. I'm not saying that for demagogue reasons, but because it's never possible to know everything. Anyway, that particular case you just mentioned, we'll, of course, check it out. When it comes to medical waste, let me touch it, in any case with the Ministry of Health we're already dealing with the team. This is one of the most important issues of environmental protection when it comes to waste. We'll get to those solutions together with our colleagues. I'm very ambitious, too, to apply those solutions as it is in a civilized world. Standards in Serbia must be respected, Serbia has its own laws, those that come to Serbia also have to respect its laws, and since we are in the period I would say accession, all companies will have reasonable deadlines to adjust their business, precisely those rules concerning environmental protection. And it's clear to you and me that the economy, which is actually the greatest polluter, cannot abide by principles and rules overnight, but by establishing this ministry, we've become more rigid when it comes to that, we're going to have a much lower degree of tolerance. It is my impression that foreign companies coming to Serbia seem to understand the environment a little bit better and that they respect environmental rules more. With our companies, it doesn't necessarily have to be that way, because the last, not just a year, you have a few years, but a lot of new managements by companies that are somewhere by the age of your generation, and who understand the whole thing much better. So everyone will have to respect the rules, they need a period and we will, of course, deal with it, and as time passes, our degree of tolerance to disrespect what is needed to protect the environment, you will see, will be getting higher. I'm going back to the beginning, and you've already seen that I've provided evidence that and how seriously I think and that chain isn't enough for us to just turn on the red light, but the key was that the courts understood that it was important. It's the top of the pyramid and we came to that top of the pyramid because the courts are beginning to understand it. We will have a whole series of consultations with both the D.A. and the courts so that we can professionally process the whole case, or a whole set of cases, because this is a very, very specific area for which people who deal with it, from prosecutors to judges, to be subjugated to understand well. I think, as far as we're concerned, we're on a great path, it's only important that we don't stop and we have bad support and all the citizens are still doing it. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45429	Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45430	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (The National MP, Nemanja Sarovic, throws out of place. Well, I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure right now, really. Nemanja Sarovic: I was in the system before. I've followed everything, please report back later. I have to give my colleague's advantage to meet Periæ. If you'd like to come in, please. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45431	Mr. Minister, I've been following you for five, six of these working days, and you'd say you have a clear and deep view of environmental protection. However, you used him, not to say, to dissipate the first day of your communication with the MPs. We, members of the SRS, can't forget that. It may have been a lapus, but you had plenty of time to say you didn't mean it, that we misunderstood you, although I deeply doubt that it wasn't your serious and true intention. Theme - Environmental protection is very serious and difficult, but it also has its good moments when one thing is done, when something is cleaned up, when something is restarted, it's for pride. This is a topic of planetary importance, but it can also be a daytime, and I will mostly speak on that daily level, giving up my pleasure to talk about what are the natural beauty of the area I come from, which is Asbukovica, Radjevina, LJubovija, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik. You would, if I were to talk like that, say, yes, the truth, it's nice and you mostly talk to the MPs and you'd be in charge. For example, Bobby, a mountain beauty, by which Milojko, Pero, is known to you and a colleague, is a man who has earned all prizes from the field of environmental protection. We have the Drina River, which also deserves special attention and mention, but I'm going to give it up at this point, but we're going to talk about some other things. You've tried to make good communication with the MPs here, that you understand them, that you thank them for supporting them, and it's not at all controversial, they ask you to be more funds for local self-government, you thank them for understanding what you're talking about, it's all legitimate and fine. But you will need much more interactive communication with your colleagues, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I've got a science textbook for the sixth grade, and I'm not going into this textbook's methodology right now, so I can say it's pretty well done, but we need to keep in mind that this is an electoral item, and it would have to be mandatory if, and most of the MPs were saying that we have to raise the level of consciousness. This is a good way to raise the level of consciousness. This textbook is 1,350 dinars, or about 1,350 dinars. There's only a teacher who teaches it, doesn't ask children, I don't even know how many kids say they want to go to this class. That would be school reform, Professor Atlagic, if that's what we do, not what we do in other ways. Further, you need to pay more attention to the burning of those seeding remains. I don't know how we could be more efficient, or you as the Ministry, to be more efficient. I was only in one lecture, where professional people in the area spoke and said it was very dangerous from an ecological point of view, and of course from the aspect of the damage to agricultural land. We'd have to take a lot more care of how to protect agricultural land. The race for offerings, for breaking records, on agricultural land, leads to the destruction of human environmental pollution potential and a number of other things that bring direct damage. Mr. Minister, think about this topic on a daily basis, and through some amendments we'll still tell you how and how these problems should be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45432	Thank you, colleague Peric. Necessa Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45433	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I am surprised that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, usually done by Veroljub Arsic. That's why I answered, to point to the injury he had previously committed. You have injured Article 103, which states that the MP has the right to indicate that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over other communications, i.e. reporting on other grounds. I checked in before the break, which was determined in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure and it's a regular break. The fact that it's been an hour doesn't mean anything, of course. The session continues in the part where it is interrupted. So, if at that moment I was reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to point to her, that part continues the session. The fact that you, Mr. Marinkovic, did not chair, but someone else, absolutely has nothing to do with it. So, the session continues, and the reason I came forward is to point to an injury from Article 158, and not because it once happened, but more than once. In this regard, Article 158 in its position 7 states: the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak for up to two minutes in each amendment. Up to two minutes in each amendment. We are here to witness that even this Rules of Procedure, which is bad and which gives much more rights to ministers than MPs, that even he is not respected. You've been letting the minister speak for three, four, five, and longer minutes than he can. You know, it's not an accident, and we'd like to talk more than two minutes per amendment, but it's just not possible. So two are restrictions. Two minutes per amendment and a total that the minister, or authorised representative, cannot speak for more than three hours on that business basis. So, you take care of that, because really, this is how MPs are trampled, that anyone who enters this assembly has more rights than we who bear the sovereignty of citizens really don't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45434	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. As everyone could see, you've now been saying two...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45435	I'm not obliged to take care of time. It was your duty as chairman to point that out to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45436	Yes, but I am obliged to provide you and allow you to complete your thought and sentence, out of respect for you and every other People's Messenger, not to cut you in the middle of a word. I think we should be in that domain, when it comes to the debate, as flexible as possible, to stick to the Rules of Procedure, but to give MPs the opportunity to complete the thought and sentence they intended to tell their colleagues and citizens. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yes, you do. Thank you, colleague Sarovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the environment is an area that is most directly linked to human health and the health of the population. That is why it is necessary to do everything in order to preserve the environment, for that is how human health is preserved, of course. However, there are also objective circumstances that no government can influence, one of them is NATO bombing, which has caused us and how many environmental problems, many of our regions, many of our environments are devastated. But let's put that aside, this, and also many governments before it, won't understand, let's just say, that water resources are the most important resources of a state and they don't do enough to protect those resources. We have a situation that our most significant and most qualitative sources of water have been given to, or sold to, foreigners, and when something most valuable to you is given to a stranger, it's like giving someone ammunition, and he has a weapon and you gave him a ministry to shoot at you. So I remind the Minister and the members of this government not to give themselves so easily, not so lightly, they must not be leased, or sold water resources, because we know that water is the most important thing, especially in the 21st century. Wars in the 21st century will not be waged for oil, but will be fought for water. We have a situation that, let's say, in America, a liter of drinking water is more expensive than a liter of coke, and also with us, take an example, let's say, let's say, this water that's been sold, the water "Rossa", that I don't advertise anyone here, when there are some actions there that and with us, means one bottle of water and water is more expensive than a bottle of coke, and even governments before that, they've easily given up some of our water resources, and I don't think that's supposed to be allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45438	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word has a minister, Goran Trivan. Here you go. It'll be in two minutes, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45439	I think you've started a very important topic. It seems that you've supported what I've been saying for a year now, which is that water is the most important resource a country has, that at this point world wars, among other things, are being watered because of drinking water, and that we can go off the record. For your information, too, this government has not sold any water resources to anyone. Otherwise, it is illegal to sell water sources under the law, only governments can rent them. I am otherwise against the fact that the most important sources of our drinking water are being leased to anyone, and it seems to me that this is a good way to save our resources for the future, because the future when it comes to water has already come.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45440	Thank you, Minister Trivan. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45441	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I certainly take care of the weather. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, discussions have been under way these days in the direction of good suggestions, positions and, of course, critical of the opposition, which is also natural. A particular reference to this bill was given by the SRS, which in principle drew public attention through the amendments to anything harmful and endangering the lives of our citizens. These problems should be dealt specifically with both municipalities and cities in the realisation of the environmental protection project. If that chain of municipalities and cities does not bind and receive support in every sense from the government and the resolution ministry, everything falls into the water. In order for all of this to be done, Serbia lacks professional people, both inspectors and engineers, where according to the Fiscal Council report, it is said that 1,500 engineers and about 1,700 designers are missing. The number of environmental inspectors is less than two to three times necessary for effective environmental control. You, Minister, know it best. All criticism of the bill and everything the MPs of the SRS have said are well-intentioned, honest and completely realistic. We have indicated in every biolife segment in all parts of Serbia, about its contaminants, about endangered flora and fauna. These are the laws you are trying to comply with EU laws, and you are courageously running into the EU with the same laws. With laws you can enter, but with citizens, I mean, very difficult. Nothing good has come from the EU, Serbia, except poor uranium and other toxic substances sent to us by EU and NATO members, which will slowly but surely destroy many generations after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45442	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If protecting the environment is of planetary importance, as my esteemed colleague Sreto Peric said, I will argue with one example. At a session of the UN General Assembly, Secretary-General Antonio Guteresh in New York two weeks ago urged the entire world public that humanity is two years old to address the issue of climate change and the environment. I think I've literally quoted it. "Investing in the environment is investing in our health, in our future. “ Here the largest environmental pollutants are listed or listed, so they mention refineries, thermoelectrics, storage of toxic waste, wild dumps, floods, fires, rinks, factories, forest pollution, rivers, car pollution, cigarettes, plastic bags, etc., but at the very top of the pyramid of the largest environmental pollutants, however, is human. A man mercilessly destroys his environment, and we will agree that natural resources, unfortunately, are not unlimited. If they threw a dart or a cigarette powder in one of the European capitals, the passersby would come to you and warn you not to do it or pick up what you've dirty. I'll continue through the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45444	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45445	Thank you, Chairman. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. In an explanation for the adoption of this bill, the proposal also stated that its adoption would ensure the application of the methodology prescribed in accordance with the EU fund management system accreditation. So far, we have also shown citizens and representatives of the government in the National Assembly, and in the future, the SRS will take advantage of every opportunity to point out that Serbia will not become an EU member, because the EU does not want Serbia in its membership. As far as the SRS is concerned, our view is that it should not become an EU member, because of this alleged community only benefits the EU, while Serbian citizens suffer only damage. The environment ministry should come to the National Assembly with laws in its area that will affect the improvement of both the environment and the quality of life of Serbian citizens, not taking into account the EU's interests. Authorities in the EU only care about themselves. During previous discussions, we have already pointed out that this area, like many others, is not in the Republic of Serbia at an enviable level. For this reason, we from the SRS have tried to improve the text of this law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45446	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45447	We are here seeking to incentivise the minister in some way to think not only about the amendments and additions of this law, but also in the next period of the laws relating to the protection of the human environment, i.e. environmentalology. This is very important and very important for us Serbian radicals. Perhaps, Minister, sometimes it does not suit you when we Serbian radicals are fiercely criticised, but we do not hesitate to say what we think and what is in line with the SRS programme. Many people don't like it. You saw yesterday how some of them got out here to say it's easy to attack those poor people who are always in some alliances, some DEPOS, DOS, communities, alliances, which we don't attack Alexander Vukic, which we don't get to personally attack him. It is not the essence of politics, nor parliamentary debates to invent against an individual. We do not agree with his policy in the greater part, but we cannot base our work in this House on what we say – here, the people are saying that Wolf is gay, here, the people are saying that Vucic's brother is a criminal. They're unverified facts. We know that it is neither great nor wonderful when it comes to Kosovo's defence and when it comes to protecting human environment and we try to correct it and we are sure that the influence of Serbian radicals is visible, if anything, on Alexander Vukic. He has changed his attitudes a lot, his relationship with Kosovo and Metohija has been corrected and the government has corrected itself. But what we are even more certain, if such a comparison can be said, to come, God forbid, those who were in DOS have nothing to do with Kosovo and Metohija. When we Serbian radicals based on this much political experience, we decided at one point whether to stay in the coalition alliance at the time with the SPS or, as they say, by Milosevic's regime or to define ourselves for something, as they said, which brings new, we were aware of the fact that these are two dangers, but the lesser danger for Serbia was to remain in the coalition alliance with the SPS and try to defend Kosovo rather than to go hand in hand to those we knew in advance that they were the greatest evil that would happen to Serbia. We did not look back on the criticisms that were from both the SRS and the public and how present, when they respected us – you are against the peace plan, you are against Resolution 1244. We did, we did, and we made it loud and clear, but we also said that Serbia is above all else. No matter how we stand on the ratings at the time and how we stand in charge of such a policy, our only goal is to preserve Kosovo and Metohija and preserve Serbia. Our only goal is to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, to preserve Serbia. It is not our goal to appeal, to beg, to kneel, to court the citizens of Serbia, and to speak what they currently consider positive. It is not our goal to run out of morality, without pride, like some others, so they say – they have their own program, they have their own ideology. There is no one but the Serbian Radical Party, and we are the only ones consistent with our ideology. And that's confirmed. How does anyone have the nerve to tell those who make coalitions and alliances that they have their own program? Well, they gave up the program by making that coalition, making that alliance. They gave up that program right away. Well, they'd give up everything if they came to power. We know it's not great and wonderful and what you're proposing. You get carried away with the idea that Serbia can, with the means to encourage the EU to invest its funds here in the form of investments, and that we will take care of the environment. But, let's say, you claim that for some 160 million, we have a large reserve, and that's your right and our right, as the ruling coalition, or SNS stands for attitudes that are contrary to the SRS' views, but they, at least one part, we know. We know them personally. We know that Alexander Vukic, because of his family tradition, will find it difficult to decide on the betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija. And those who make alliances, they're the same ones that were in DEPOS and DOS. For them, we are sure that they will hand over both the Vojvodina and the Rasko area and that Serbia will remain in Belgrade's pasture, only so that they will be in power. And it is not necessary for Serbian citizens to doubt this, just to remember October 5th and the period after October 5th, when they spoke – where good luck that we have listened to you, Serbian radicals. And We have sent these, as you do, ministers. Do not relax. You'll never have support with the SRS if you have bad suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45448	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, has already referred to a few MPs as a problem and a major pollution in Serbia that stems from the use of plastic bags. The last two months in Belgrade, large trade chains have started, instead of giving away those plastic bags for free, they have begun to charge them. Many hailed because the use of plastic bags has been reduced to some extent. However, we as a people are very ready to do something that comes from some good intentions to abuse and what should have been an ecological action, actually now serves to make extra profits for large trade chains. I think only naive people can think that previous trade chains were handing out those bags for free. They were, of course, included as a business cost and are therefore divided. But it was expected to be something even cheaper after that. The second thing, now bags are charged about five, about 10 dinars, and it would make sense if that money went to the state register and that money was used later on for environmental projects, environmental cleaning and the like. But we're witnessing that that's not true. Another major problem that exists, we have heard that from next year in the city of Belgrade, plastic bags will be completely banned. It's a good idea, but in my opinion, it can't be left at will, good or bad, local self-government. This must be the work of the country. It is something that you as a minister who cares about the conservation of the environment must fight for such a regulation to be passed at the level of all Serbia. My proposal, specifically related to the collection of bags, has to be done and it certainly is in poor society perhaps the most efficient way to lower the use and reduce the use of these plastic bags, but insist through the Ministry of Finance to find a proper way. Whether it's going to be a fee of 10 dinars, it's better to be a tax so it's charged by the state, and it's going to be used further for environmental projects, or it's going to be taxed, that through the basic cost of costing, if it costs a bag of 30 pairs, all the more, 95% go to the state register. Then these trade chains might lose interest in stealing first and foremost Serbian citizens, and if they are already financing something, Serbian citizens would know they are funding in the interest of future generations and themselves in a particular environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45450	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Time's up, let me tell you. The word has a Minister Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45451	One of the important issues in Serbia, the protection of the environment, as much as it seems to someone else, is the matter of plastic bags, because pollution with plastic bags and PET packaging is a really dramatic issue and we're not going to waste time on that now, perhaps some other time. The idea of starting to charge, i.e. that the trade chains start to charge, is actually the idea of polling the public. This way of polling the public, by charging less or more dinars, as you said yourself, is a project that has succeeded. About 60% less is used plastic bags where we can measure it, in those chains, and that's already a very good result. But it's just one move to track down what you're talking about. I'm usually the opponent of using plastic bags. Some of these solutions you're talking about are solutions we're thinking about and we're just going to think about, and I totally agree with you that these funds that are now being made to collect these plastic bags would be nice to leave, especially for humanitarian purposes, especially ecological. I must commend the Association of Serbian Merchants of DTL, who have decided that the money they earn from the collection of bags is indeed directed towards humanitarian purposes. So someone is already thinking about it with their own free will. We will indeed try to find a system solution from next year that will indeed save Serbia from plastics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45452	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45453	I don't know if we understand each other well, I wasn't criticizing the solution, I am a complete ban on using plastic bags, and I don't think it can be the basis for extra profits from large trade chains, but that something that is socially useful is being financed. That's what's completely clear. The other thing, the big problem is PET packaging, unfortunately it's not even scratched yet, and no solution to the problem is being seen. There are solutions. You look at some highly developed Western lands. The example works, in Germany, whether it's a glass bottle, whether it's plastic, whether it's a can, for all it's bail, absolutely for everyone and people when they come to buy it in trade chains, they get a cut, literally which, after they pay the bill on the register. I think those solutions that have yielded results, which are extremely simple. The easiest way is, of course, if someone knows that they can win for a plastic bottle of 30 dinars or 50 dinars for glass, be sure that the moment they introduce it in Serbia, that it will immediately increase this environmental consciousness and that many more people would care about the environment, because I repeat, they should not forget that we are a poor society and that people who may not, perhaps out of ignorance, may be from some rebellion, but if they are aware that they can thus improve the state of their home budget, then those who really don't care about the environment will also do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45454	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45455	Thank you. The way ministers promote certain laws here in the Assembly, I don't know how best to explain it without it being brief, we have the feeling that you are manipulating, that the EU is manipulating the government, and that the government is manipulating its citizens. There, that's the definition of laws like this. The essence of this law is how you're going to take and take money from the Green Fund, that is, how individuals are going to get money from the Green Fund, and that is how you shut down the competition, as a way of getting funds from the Green Fund. It's crucial in this law for all this time while we were talking about bats and reptiles and all we've been doing is spreading some theory, but really unnecessary. So, the key is how to get the money out of the Green Fund, and to make it legal, which is that the Assembly tomorrow or the day after tomorrow gives consent to something like that. There, that's the point. And what you're saying about IPARD means how the EU plays with you and how you play with us. He's playing with you by telling you - We'll give you 160 million from IPARD funds; and you're in no condition, she told you in 2016, and you're the first call for IPARD funds only early this year, or 20 December last year. This means that we only have a year for this IPARD fund, year – year and a half. Why weren't you ready to withdraw those funds truly? No, you weren't ready, because you didn't find a way out of the Green Fund to draw money for you, or for individuals who are close to the authorities. Does the president of the party and the president of Serbia know that? I don't think he knows. And don't do the same things, copy the government that was until 2012, which exclusively served to fill its private pockets and to enrich its individuals who were close to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45456	Thank you. The MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to article 2 with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP Bozidar Delic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment to the SRS, paragraph 1 of Article 2 is deleted. There are two important reasons for this erasure. As opponents of Serbia's entry into the EU at all costs, of course we believe that European funds, funds allegedly supported by the UN, including our agriculture, are in fact a trap that is used by foreigners to take away our agricultural land, and the rest of the independent farmers are also imposing their terms on us. Another reason why this member should be deleted lies in the fact that this amendment opens up possibilities for manipulation. That's where I think of the so-called. "unscheduled costs", which receive legal status with this supplement, which in our case means that it will be an additional source of earnings. Namely, we all know that we so-called. additional costs followed for decades, slowed corridors, construction of public buildings, etc. In the end, I must express my confidence that these amendments of the law will go in favour of legal persons, whose basic activity is agriculture, because it will indeed be interesting to follow the information on the moves of Al Dahra, an Arab firm sold to the PKK. All odds are that this company will compensate at least part of the 104m euros invested, precisely from European funds, of course with the help of this law and the agriculture ministry, which communicates on the issue with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45458	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45459	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that a Commission has recently been formed in this House, aimed at examining the consequences of the bombing. The party to which I belong voted to form such a commission, and as far as I'm concerned, I supported it with special satisfaction. I was born in Kosovo and Metohija, where I lived until I was forced to leave the home hearth. I know from experience what was going on down there when and where the bombs were falling with the poor uranium, and the consequences that are undoubtedly huge may never be determined. Kosovo and Metohija are for me, not only the spiritual centre of the Serb people, but is the most beautiful and materially rich part of all Serbian spaces. My Kosovo Pomoravalje is more fertile than the Vojvodina itself, but today many Serbian countries are unprocessed or processed by some to whom it does not belong. The question now is how much has this fertile land been poisoned and how long does it take to bring it into its original state if it's even possible? The effects of the bombing are not only suffered by Serbs, but also by Kosovo Albanians, they are the most and many of them today aware of what kind of gift they received from their NATO friends. That's why a large number of Albanians fled to Western European countries because they are aware of the pollution caused by the bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45460	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45461	Mr. Minister, during this session, we had the opportunity to hear the views of different parliamentary groups on the subject of numerous aspects of the environmental protection process. Unfortunately, however, it seems to me that too little attention is given to an extremely important issue, which is the question of recycling. The fact is that Serbia's recycling culture has not been sufficiently developed yet, which is said by defeating statistical data that only about 10% of Serbia's total waste is recycled, while the number in Germany, as one of the EU's leading countries, is about 90%. If we talk about different categories of waste, the most recycled packaging waste is about 40%, which means that about 90% of the total waste in Serbia and about 60% of the packaging waste ends on green surfaces, in treetops, if it comes to bags, rivers and wild dumps across our country. Serbia has the capacity to recycle, but these capacities do not function fully, but only half of the capacity works, primarily because of the fact that the collection of secondary raw materials is mainly done by natural persons, individuals who are not trained enough for the job or paid enough. It is mainly about individuals from sensitive social groups dealing with this business motivated by economic motives, not with the motives of protecting the environment. Since you have announced that you will regulate the process of collecting secondary raw materials and that you will be able to translate secondary raw materials from the gray zone into legal flows, I am interested in how far it has taken place with this process, and is it defined exactly what benefits the collectors of secondary raw materials will be able to calculate when they are registered to the public registers of their local self-government? I'm also interested in what percentage of the Green Funds will be destined for recycling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45462	Thank you. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45463	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, are aware of the fact that the economy is the main carrier and investor in the field of environmental protection, but also its largest polluter. The greatest burden of ecological transition is the economy. We are also aware of the situation in the economy, but also of the responsibilities it has when it comes to protecting the environment. The race for profit of domestic and foreign companies is legitimate, but it cannot be without control. She can't be at the heart of pollution. I come from Go Rakovica, whose citizens are concerned about the quality of the environment. Part of the problem relates to the work of the company "Juneisk" d.o.o. with a seat on Sima Street and a drive on Liberation No. 1 in Prince's Village. In 2007, the company signed an agreement on long-term business-technical co-operation with the former factory "21. May" in Rakovica and opened a waste treatment plant within their factory. That same year, in 2008, the company submitted a request for studies to assess the impact on environmental protection, the then Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, and was agreed by the restoring ministry. Also, this company has moved several times since 2008 to today's resolution ministries, which have changed, or the protection of the environment has simply moved through different ministries, submitted a request for an update of the basic study on the following topics. In 2010, in order to introduce new technology in the treatment of waste for the MID-MIKS reactor, then, in 2011, this company gets from a resolution ministry an integral permit for collection, storage and treatment of non-hazardous and hazardous waste, then, in 2012, to increase the capacity of processing dangerous waste from 2,000 to 3,000 tonnes annually, then, in 2015, also to change the study, to increase the capacity of waste management from 3,000 to as much as 9,000 tonnes per year, which you will admit is a populated place, such as Knezevic, a really large figure in, I repeat, the town municipality of Rakovica, to just seven kilometers from the centre of Belgrade. Also, what came after that? Citizens' applications to the township of Rakovica and applications for adequate treatment have been under way since 2013, more specifically on 29 October 2013, the Environmental Protection Inspectorate has submitted a report to the citizens for inspection control of work. The response of the Republic environmental inspectorate says there are no polluting substances in the air. This was done again in 2015, on 10 November 2015, the Environmental Protection Inspection was submitted to citizens for inspection control of the operation of the facility and we as the town municipality of Rakovica, as citizens living in the township of Rakovica, just seven kilometers from the centre of Belgrade, we did not get an answer, and I ask you, Minister, to be absolutely involved in this case. We can't play with citizens' trust. One institution can't be a mother, another institution can be a stepmother. Indeed, continued co-operation and the resolution ministry, the newly formed Ministry of Environmental Protection and the City Secretariat for the protection of the environment and all necessary inspection services at all levels, at the level of the city, at the level of the Republic. The Municipality of Rakovica really serves the needs of its citizens and recognised this problem as an important environmental problem. As the town municipality of Rakovica, we received more than 600 signatures of dissatisfied citizens, primarily the settlement of Knezevic. The municipality initiated a meeting held in 2016 in the municipality of Rakovica, where they were representatives of the resolution ministry, where they were also representatives of the company Junirisk, representatives of the township of Rakovica, but also citizens, who were indeed citizens of the most vulnerable part of Rakovica, citizens of the settlement of Knezevic, who made a number of remarks on the work of this facility and how the waste is stored. They also voiced suspicion that breathing air is not the most appropriate quality. They spoke and pointed to objections from the unpleasant smell, that certain toxic and polluting substances were found in the air. Representatives of the then-resistant Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection concluded that "Yunisk" must take additional measures to protect the environment in updating the subject-matter, which I was already talking about. Also, due to further complaints from citizens, the township of Rakovica has repeatedly addressed authorities, primarily seeking inspection control of the operation of this facility, located on Liberation Street in the village of Knezevic. It's been done more than once. We have not often received adequate answers, and I am now asking you, Minister Trivan, as the minister responsible for a very important topic, such as environmental protection, waste management. You told my colleague, Mr. Komlenski, that you have 30 years of experience, that you really don't miss the opportunity to react adequately, that you won't miss the opportunity to examine all those suspicious permits and all those suspicious actions that were before you entered this ministerial post. It is also that, on 2 June 2017, a repeated emergency to the environmental inspection sector for the delivery of monitoring and surveillance regulations was repeated. Also, we have a very specific case, I mean, I could talk about this for a really long time, but we have a particularly interesting case about a property, or lack of adequate permits to work this firm in Rakovica. In order to challenge the update of the 2016 study, the documentation for the first study on environmental protection and the work of the Junisk company was made on 13 June 2008, where it was found that SO Rakovica, in addition to the Water Directorate and the Department for Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, was found in relation to the submission of the request for the study. So, I've been speaking since 2008. With insight into the archives of the township of Rakovica, taking into account all the items from 2008, the conclusion is that Rakovica municipality did not find any document in which SO Rakovic was given an opinion. And it brings me to the next fact that there is another irregularity in the work of this company, which opens up space for further speculation, for further doubt, and I ask you to respond adequately and take responsibility for the work of this company. Also, on 07.06.2017, data were sent to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the City of Belgrade to deliver a call, whether or not this paper exists. We received a reply from the Environment Protection Secretariat on 20.06.2017 that there is no requested document. We also received the same answer from the ministry, that it does not possess the requested document, the ministry told us in its reply written through 27.06.2017, but that it has a solution to issue a water business permit to the investor "21. May’ of 24. In 2008, they provided us with the support of the Republic Water Directorate. The last activity dates back to this year. On 13 February 2018, the City Municipality of Rakovica addressed the Ministry of Environmental Protection to an objection to an application for the issue of an integrated authorisation "Juneiscu". The Ministry informs us on 17.08.2018 that a draft integrated permit was drawn up. The latest developments lead us further and says that the township of Rakovica again on 17 September requested a notice from the resolution ministry, from your ministry, Mr Trivan, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in response to the question referred to in Article 15. The law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, the competent authority which decides to issue a licence on an operator's request, shall, within 120 days or in exceptional cases, decide on the issue of a licence, so please inform us whether the integrated authorisation has been respected or the time limit has been exceeded? As someone who comes from the municipality of Rakovica, who is a citizen and resident of that municipality, who participates in the exercise of authority in that municipality, we have so far not received an answer as the township of Rakovica, and I ask you that because of the interests of the public and citizens living in my municipality, to provide us with these answers. Because I hope the silence of the administration isn't approval. I'm asking you to really respond as quickly as possible and get an adequate answer. I'm also asking you to engage all professional services. We see that we've had, like, ten years now, a decade of failure to work in this company, and you're hiring all available environmental inspectors. I know that you have few, that you are a newly formed ministry and that you are still strengthening and building your capacities, but I ask you to send the inspectors to the field and get some answers from the citizens of Rakovic, above all I mean the citizens of the settlements of the Prince. Please, Minister Trivan, have an understanding of my concern, because the company is located in a populated area. It's about the Prince's settlement. There is Rakovica monastery, which visits a large number of domestic and foreign tourists. There is also Topciderka river, there is also a monastery forest and a new economic zone. I'm really asking you to pay attention to everything I'm about to tell you. I will deliver this question to you and in writing. As an SNS MP who is really persistent, I'm going to ask these questions as many times as I don't get adequate answers to all these questions. Indeed, Serbia's advanced party, the health of its citizens, is one of its priorities. It's just that it's our first priority. We can't go deaf, we can't have any problems, and we can't have problems about protecting the environment, pushing it under the carpet. We need to open them up and find the right answers. The silence of the administration and major virtual projects like that "Let's Clean Serbia" project are simply part of the past. I want your new ministry to turn over a new leaf and really move forward. All eyes of the public crabs are against you. I ask you to give us immediate answers and an adequate response from your ministry by respecting all the laws and regulations that apply in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45464	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word has a minister, Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45465	We know about this problem, as you can imagine, and you said yourself, we are by definition always on the side of the citizens. Doubts whether we'll be administration under my leadership or not we'll be silent already removed, so we don't shut up, on the contrary. But we stick to all the procedures that aren't sometimes as fast as we can expect. It's normal in the administration. We will continue to deal with this story in order not to be too long. In the procedure is a request for obtaining an EPPS permit, etc. And when we go deep into every detail you're talking about, and whoever guarantees that we won't run into more of those institutions, I'm not talking about people who've made fouls, and you seem to have arranged them quite nicely. It doesn't need to, and it won't destimulate us, but somebody's gonna have to figure out what it is and how it worked. Believing that citizens are right, I can ask myself a question and what happens if citizens are right while the firm is doing its job in full order. It's just rhetorical questions. So, I haven't met any firm that's able to do any of the details, as the law says. So I'm just saying that there's always two sides in front of us that we're some kind of arbiter somewhere, but personally it's not hard for me at all because I know whose side I'm on. Because I know that I'm on the side of environmental protection and that an epilogue can only be one, and that's the first thing to respect the law. If the law is fully respected, then we will be the mediator to talk between citizens and the firm. Maybe the citizens don't want that company to be there, even if it respects the law. I have seen many of these cases in Serbia, despite the fact that many of the capacities of those we do not now need to talk to Serbia. The way to solve it is the one I'm talking about - you talk to people, and when you talk to people, what you're obviously doing in Rakovica, then you can't come to a solution. If there are three sides, in this case bar, which are ready to talk, I know that you are ready to talk, I know that the people of Junior, it seems, are ready to talk, we are here to be some kind of mediator, we have to respect the laws and regulations and this my public speaking of it is a message to both citizens and businesses to expect that from this moment on, even though we have been dealing with this problem for weeks we are taking the responsibility to try to bring this process to an end so that it is primarily legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45466	Thank you, Minister Trivan. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are in Article 2. The bill of law and as when it was the case with Article 1. I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law, which aims to support, in any event, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of the environment and to support all those objectives achieved by this law. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to enable the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from pre-accession EU funds and meet all those conditions for the use of IPARD funds. The proposed provision enables the issuing of acts by the Ministry of Environmental Protection tasks which determine the fulfilment of the conditions in the field of environmental protection, thereby also participating in the competition for the award of funds from the IPARD Funds. And what is very important, without the proposed regulation of the legal basis for issuing an act on the fulfilment of environmental protection conditions, this participation and publication would not actually be possible to implement a competition. These are all the goals that this law achieves. From this point on, I would like to support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45468	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45469	Thank you. Dear Chairman, my amendment is about maintaining our country's economic potential. I can't help but look back at the relevant 2030 Agenda and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda, which also has 169 sub-targets. The main objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda are set in four groups. In order to maintain economic potential, it is also important to have a healthy environment. Thus, the 17 objectives of the 2030 Agenda are set in four groups. The third group is an environment and climate covering six objectives of the 2030 Agenda. It is such an important environment, and we also know that the same Agenda came into force in January 2013 and that our country has given support to the implementation of these sustainable development objectives. We have given support in observing and maintaining how these goals will be achieved, but also support through the national campaign "Serbia as I wish". My colleague Aleksandar Markovic talked about such actions and campaigns, but former authorities, "Let's Clean Serbia", which has contributed so much to clear the budget. They, in fact, ex-government cleared the budget. This isn't the kind of national campaign I want, it's Serbia I want. By meeting the objectives of the 2030 Agenda, we will lay the foundations of the future for every man in our country. We will root out poverty, provide quality education, equal chances for everyone, a healthy environment and an even better economy and strengthening institutions. The Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda are the idea of leadership for all who seek to improve people's lives in order to provide future generations with a better life. The 2030 Agenda is essential to achieving a fairer, better and safer future. As our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said -- the goal of the 2030 Agenda is to keep no one at the end of the column. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45470	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45471	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I will, as the most endangered species, point out exactly us. Human population. In fact, we all know that harmful substances have a lot, that thousands of chemicals are used to improve the production process due to an increase in the characteristics of a particular product or to lower the price of goods. Chemicals are added not only to food and food packages, but also to other items we use in everyday use. I'll mention it, for example. clothes, furniture, cosmetics, toys, detergents, cell phones, medications, carpets, etc. Chemicals, as we know, are largely polluting the air, starting with the combustion of wood, coal or gas, to pesticides, perfumes, auto evaporation and other pollutants resulting from human activity. These chemicals enter our organism, into our bloodstream and through our skin, orally, or through the mouth or through inhalation, so that the circumstances in which people live, work and grow largely are shaped by resource and energy layout. People's health is affected by both working conditions and housing and water and sanitary conditions, so if each of us does a little bit of environmental protection, that means a lot to nature. If we are responsible, we will preserve, protect and improve our environment, improve the conditions for human life and for the survival of plants and animals, i.e. the plant and animal world, which is our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45472	Thank you. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45473	The Honorable Chairman, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, in previous days, we have dealt with the debate in particular of the proposed Law on the Protection of the Environment. Environmental policy formally falls under the younger public policies of the EU, as this policy only takes place in a single European act in 1987. A single act in Article 100 says that environmental policy will be in community competence to complete the common market. EU environmental policy is one of the most important policies of the EU. The scale of environmental policy, but also the cost of harmonisation, poses a major challenge for a country preparing for membership, but the same problems have also been met by all new members and have been rarely given the opportunity to fully comply with the standards of this policy after a transitional period since the entry into membership. Today, Serbia is expected to adopt and apply environmental policy standards more and more until the moment of formal membership and thus, the challenges of Europeanisation, environmental policies in Serbia are higher. The essential changes in this law concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and more efficient provision of funds from the Green Fund for Infrastructure Projects from IPARD Funds in the field of environmental protection. The application of this law will not cost citizens and businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendments to the law can encourage the development of new economic operators and competition in business branches, linked to the realisation of infrastructure projects in the field of environmental protection and agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45474	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45475	I thank the chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, IPARD funds are intended for registered agricultural holdings operating in the milk, meat, fruit and vegetables sector and other crops that meet the competitive conditions of domestic and international standards. In addition to agricultural holdings, the right to use IPARD funds also has entrepreneurs, companies and agricultural cooperatives. However, the IPARD programmes aim primarily to establish institutional structures and in a way that prepares us and enables us to use much more significant funds from the EU's common agricultural policy funds and introduce us during this pre-accession period in much stricter rules that apply to EU members, which they are now meeting and have to adhere to potential beneficiaries of funds. That is how the IPARD programme achieves its primary goal, which is to help farmers and food producers prepare for fierce competition when Serbia joins the EU. Competition on the European market for agricultural products and food will be great, but our advantage will be to have healthy agricultural products, food, milk and meat, fruit and vegetables, as long as we keep them from environmental pollution and as long as we have a healthy environment. I want to highlight the importance of proper and quality control of the users of the funds, without which the whole project loses its meaning. Control must be multiple, of the so-called. Zero controls in the approval phase of the use of funds, through other controls, in the payment phase of funds, up to the last control to be undertaken and carried out after the realisation of the investment and after the funds paid to the user, and it aims to determine whether the investment has been maintained and whether the required EU standards have been met at the end of the investment. Controls can also be extraordinary, depending on the circumstances. We of the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vucic, believe that establishing a high-level control of the use of IPARD funds is a necessary prerequisite for the project to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45476	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45477	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which reads -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the conservation of environmental consciousness. The EU negotiation process consists of 35 chapters, and chapter 27 concerns environmental protection and is one of the most complex chapters. The commitment of the Republic of Serbia as candidate countries is the adoption of EU legal flows in this area. This means that all sectoral policies and all areas of work must comply with the principles of environmental protection. Article 2 The proposal for amendments to the Environmental Protection Act provides that the funds of the Green Fund for the financing of the protection and promotion of the environment can also be allocated, without public competition, to prepare and co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance, as well as to co-finance projects financed from international development aid and other sources. If we want to participate and withdraw funds from the European funds available to the Republic of Serbia, we must be prepared to finance part of these costs ourselves, as well as make the co-financing system comprehensive. The current environmental financing scheme cannot provide long-term needs, and therefore root changes in this area are necessary, and this will all result in a better, better quality and longer life span for our citizens. The proposed changes and additions are greatly facilitated and simplified by access to the mentioned funds, which further has a long-term effect on environmental protection and on raising environmental awareness, as well as on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this must be explicitly highlighted in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45478	Thank you. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45479	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, is the fact that Article 2. The amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment is currently talking about the use of the funds of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, and we are aware that these competitions encourage educational, research, development studies, that is, the promotion and protection of the environment. This directly affects the preservation of the nature and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Competitions that allow the use of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia support a whole range of different infrastructure projects from waste management to the removal of wild dumps, i.e. cleaning. They also allow units of local self-government to compete with projects related to land drilling, which again means preserving nature and raising living standards. For decades we have been left behind by a large number of devastation factories that now represent nothing more than municipal waste. However, this government is responsible for designing projects and solving problems by attracting foreign investment, where several billion foreign direct investment in the field of environmental protection can be expected in the coming years, including construction of waste management infrastructure facilities, waste water treatment, reduction of industrial pollution and air pollution. With me in the Municipality of Grock, there's a Vincha dump, untapped energy potential, because the whole world uses waste to recycle and generate energy. In the world, waste costs money. The Vinca dump is a major environmental problem near Belgrade on the right bank of the Danube, and therefore it is urgent and I urge that as soon as possible the planned goal of building a waste recycling plant and plant for the production of electricity and waste, which contributes to the development and conservation of nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45480	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Milovan Drecun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milena Turk has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45481	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The environmental law, in order to further specify this member and put a special accent on the preservation of ecological heritage. Since you're also a member of 2. The environmental law deals with the Green Fund and simplifying and facilitating the procedures for the use of these funds, and this is, of course, the preparation and implementation of projects in the field of environmental protection for which we are competing with pre-accession EU funds, I believe that this member should be extended by one such attitude relating precisely to the ecological heritage. It is important in this way to ensure a stable and predictable financing system and to ensure effective planning and use of public funds for this purpose. We have a number of tasks and challenges ahead of us. It is important that during this process we look to countries that are ahead of this area and listen to their experiences in order to avoid, on the one hand, mistakes, potential mistakes, in our planning, on the other hand to make the most of the resources available to us. It is important for us to define problems, to come up with solutions, to prepare projects, but also to provide for financial construction and to predict deadlines, real deadlines, in which we will achieve everything we have planned. We have already pointed out several times in the debate that we have not joined this process either because of the EU or because of the negotiations, or because of what one of us has demanded. Our country needs this process and we do it because we borrowed this land from our descendants and we are obliged to treat it with care. In this way we need to think intensively and act in all segments when we talk about waste water management, waste recycling, all segments where environmental policies need to be introduced, when we talk about agriculture, businesses, energy and transport. When it comes to economics, we are not only obliged to adopt the best possible modern technology and reach some standards, we are also obliged to deal with the problem of historical waste that has lagged behind us from the previous period. This is what I really think of companies that have passed the process of restructuring, privatisation, bankruptcy, and often these consequences are the result of an irresponsible policy, irresponsibility, negligence, and often abuse. It is clear that, in each of these segments, we are expected to have a large amount of work, both in legislation and in the education of the population and in the preparation of the infrastructure itself, as I have already mentioned, in the area of recycling of wastewater, to preserve our ecological heritage in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45482	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mladen Lukic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45483	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, sustainable development assumes such a developmental orientation that in itself creates a lasting established harmony between economic development and the environment, with the aim of making as rational as possible use of natural resources as possible as possible of the greater economic gain. Tourism must agree with environmental protection. The planning of tourism in a sustainable way protects the environment in a way that meets economic, social and aesthetic needs, while maintaining a system of cultural integrity, essential ecological processes, biological differences and supporting the survival of life. In this context, it is necessary to integrate developmental competitive and marketing activities and to reshape public services and urban plans in the function of development of tourism and environmental protection. Key world and European tourism trends undoubtedly contribute to the destination of Mount Tara, especially when it comes to trends in health, ecological and sustainable tourism, and on which map this destination should play in the long term. The link between tourism, national parks and local communities leads to more diverse forms of development of interest and benefits, however, the current market position of Tara National Park area, due to years of congestion in the modernisation of products, accommodation and other capacities, does not closely monitor world and European trends. In order to change this, there is a need for numerous innovations during winter and summer stay, as well as the need for organised development of the construction of a tourist offer on the mountain of Tara, with the reputation of some successful models of competition, such as the Logan Valley, Kranjska gora and Bled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45484	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45485	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that I have proposed to be in Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment adds item 3 with the aim of pointing to the importance of improving conditions in national parks. We all agreed in previous days in our discussions that it is necessary for the state of Serbia to have a clearly defined national policy in the field of environmental protection and, also, we agreed in our discussions that it is necessary to allocate more resources to protect the environment, both at the republican level and at the local level. The Republic of Serbia is committed to the 2030 sustainable development agenda in implementing 17 millennium targets, and certainly one of these goals is environmental protection as a priority. The goals of sustainable development are, above all, to help an ordinary man to live better and better in the next decade. One of the goals is to ensure forest conservation, also stop deforestation, restore the destroyed forests and increase deforestation at global level. We have had the opportunity to hear from the minister today that around 700 hectares have been insulated in Belgrade, and that is for every commendation, and that the Ministry's plan for the coming years to be allocated is an increasing and greater means of deforestation. Some of the objectives of sustainable development include the conservation of mountain ecosystems, the protection of endangered species and the prevention of extinction, as well as the prevention of poaching, as well as the prevention of trade in protected animals and plant species. All these goals are feasible, if financial resources for this purpose are significantly increased, and Serbia wants to and must work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45486	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45487	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, each citizen has the right to a healthy environment and each of us has a duty and a duty to protect and promote it. We have a duty to provide future generations with a healthy environment. It is necessary to have quality drinking water, clean air, treatment of waste water in order to preserve water resources, proper land management as a natural resource. Now we will be reminded in 2006, of a pompous headline in the newspaper, unfortunately negative, "Fear of the First Iskra factory in Baric. "The First Iskra" in Baric is one of Europe's largest pentrite producers. Apart from that mine-explosive asset in First Sparks, tens, dents, hexogens, octogens and their compositions are also produced. They also own their own technology for the processing of waste acids and reconstruction of the same, as well as the technology for the treatment of water from waste from the process of production of explosives. However, experts said there should be no fear of this factory, as chemical substances produced in the "First Iskri" Baric cannot cause an ecological disaster of broad scales. What does that mean, wide scales? Either it's a disaster or it's not a disaster in 2006. This plant processes waste acids, produces raw materials for pharmaceuticals, home chemistry and similar substances that are not so dangerous to the environment. How dangerous do they have to be around? It is interesting that in 1999 there were very dangerous chemical substances, such as fluorochloric acid and fosgene, in the First Spark. The chemists mark this substance as very dangerous, and for fluorinated acid it says it eats windows, or melts them. During NATO bombing, the ground-based warehouses with fluoridonic acid and fosgene were visiblely marked with yellow flags, the mark of man's life-threatening matter and environmental disaster. Fortunately, in 2012, the arrival of SNS to power, the new equipment obtained from the IPA 2012 project, the establishment of an integrated environmental monitoring system in the water and air quality area, enabled a new method of processing the sample, i.e. the quality of data analysis that is fully harmonised with European legislation and European standards, respected ministers, which would mean the system of control non-stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45488	Thank you, colleague Malusic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this topic in the Assembly was to be opened. My colleagues talked about the problems from those environments that came from and highlighted all the natural wealth and beauty of Serbia, which is understandable, and should do so. Of course, there are industrial polluters, however, with one good supervision by the Ministry and inspection services, relatively, I'm not saying it's easy, but it's possible to solve the problem because they are concentrated, it's one object or two or three in a region and it's possible to control and monitor how polluting the environment. However, in my view, the biggest contaminants are precisely the mass disposal of solid municipal waste, which, many do not know, is in the jurisdiction of local self-government alone. Communal companies dealing with waste disposal and storage are working on a part of the job, in terms of collection and disposal, but local self-government are competent to determine how to postpone and help citizens solve the problem. I come from the territory of Braničevsky Management District, there is only one sanitary dump, whose resources have long been, to say, expired, but it continues with some specific analyses and I know that in the great rest of Serbia, the situation is no more brilliant. As a consequence, you have that various mechanics appear who try to help local self-governments, in essence, can freely say, in a certain way and fraud, which is that they offer some private-public partnerships or even seek concessions to help a certain unit of local self-government resolve the disposal of solid municipal waste and always, by the rule, seek the location where they would do it, the conclusion of the contract, seems to me, at least 99 years of use or that the land may be donated to them, etc., with a deadline of about 25 years. Most often, such bidders do not have the means to achieve such a thing, but they need a location so that they may compete with some funds and gain some capital through other people's assets. Now, they will not say that they remain in the jurisdiction of local self-government units to collect solid municipal waste, and that access is paid, which is not small, which is 15 euros, if local self-government has donated land, up to 22, 27, and even 30 euros per tonne, and is trying to break over to citizens who pay for the transfer of solid municipal waste or, contrary to the position of the State Auditing Institution, to compensate from the city budget or local self-government units, municipalities. So, I think that in one strategy, the Ministry should be a little more active in bringing together units of local self-government, that they, with the help of the competent ministry, solve this problem, provide, cannot say the funds, have not enough resources to solve the problem themselves. There is a need for more active participation of the Ministry itself, for them to come to the best, cheapest and most qualitative solution for their local self-government. In this way I think that we would solve many of the problems of many wild dumps, because the units of local self-government are very easy to solve the problem of wild dumps, the problem is that they can't, because there's no place to put off the existing waste, the waste that collects. It's also a common problem to collect waste from rural settlements. Again, it is not a problem for the local self-government unit to provide waste collection funds, the problem is where to put the waste down, because there is nowhere to be collected. So, I think in some future period, the Ministry should deal with this more seriously, help our local self-government solve this problem. Really, believe me, they can hardly do it themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45490	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45491	Dear sir, I'm only arresting for those who don't understand what I'm saying. So, I'd say it's a diagnosis and it's actually not a complicated thing at all. It's always a rewarding question why it took this long to wait for us to reach these conclusions. Whether the interests of individuals who were at the head of the municipality, and such municipalities still exist in Serbia today, who made individual contracts with different operators, so they paid out of the budget illegally, as far as I'm concerned, or the citizens got the price they had to pay, etc. Now let me stay out of the details. The bottom line of what I'm trying to say is first, let me give you the right, because nothing more rational can happen than asking the municipalities to team up. Here on the basis of this story, I'm no longer in the field to ask, because the state has its own waste management strategy, we're reviewing it because we think that out of the 26 regional dumps it's more rational that there are, say, 20, 21, because you're going to bring more municipalities together, and then, as you said yourself, they're going to have bigger resources. This issue of waste management is exclusively an economic issue, from this aspect of what we're talking about. If the operator doesn't have the right amount of waste, he doesn't have the ability to do it for a price low enough that will be a low price for local self-government, then that price has to be built, those words. One municipality, if it wants to have an operator of that type, does not have enough waste for that operator to be economically profitable under market conditions afterwards. Then the price must be built, and it's not marketable, so it's called extraprofit and no local self-government, in my opinion, it shouldn't and should not work. When we get to that, and now we come to this, because we had to wait exactly for a year to find out where the municipality is, if something good happened in these few years, it's that coming new people to the head of the municipality realized that the waiting was no more and that I now have experience personally, all the presidents of the municipalities or the mayors who were with us, almost without exception, said – no more arrangements in this sense, we will no longer stop, we want to solve the question of the dump in our region immediately. So, the time has matured, consciousness has matured, this is the way, to join together, to make a regional dump, then it makes sense and economic and for the citizens it will cost less, and in fact we will really clean up Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45492	Thank you, Minister Trivan. Dr Predrag Jelenkovic reported after the amendment. Here you go, colleague Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45493	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, proposed by Mr Arsic, is the opening of the issue, probably you, ministers, know that in many environments, many local self-governments in southeastern Serbia do not have any employees dealing with environmental issues. This is a very important issue, as counterpart Arsic said, envision a strategy, when a strategy is already being done, or perhaps inter-resistent co-operation with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, perhaps with one of your recommendations from the ministry, that local self-governments have an obligation to employ one person, at least one person, depending on the number of residents, which would deal with the environmental issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45494	Thank you, Dr. Jelenkovic. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45495	We are absolutely aware that we have a shortage and a lack of people dealing with the environment. It is not sustainable for us that one man in the municipality deals not only with one but also with two, three, four life-forms, it is unacceptable. I talked to Minister Ruzic about trying to find ways and resources, as far as we're concerned, we wouldn't even help the municipalities that, if we think this is a comparative advantage and if we think we need to invest here, five, ten, 15 billion euros, and if we think that there are jobs here and if we think that this is about protecting the environment, and that's all the advantages for me, then I don't see a reason why we don't hire a few dozen people in municipalities who are just going to deal with it. Because, remember, we don't have capacity in the municipalities. After all, you all come from some municipalities and it's quite clear that in every municipality one man has to deal with environmental issues, know the procedures, know who he's going to hire so we can make papers, so we can get into these huge investments, and I'm telling you that money will be for it. But the prerequisite for this is the capacity of human and the prerequisite for this is the production of project-technical documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45496	Thank you, Minister Trivan. The word has Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45497	I comment on what the minister said, one of my colleagues, there are two words used, and I think we should ask and recommend. There's nothing from it, Minister. If you can't order, that's the end. To be clear, such a hierarchy must be established that the Ministry must order, must exercise control, and above all control of spending money. Until that hierarchy is established, this will all be a swan song. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45498	Thank you, colleague Yokic. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45499	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I agree with all that has been said before, but in order to continue, I have to say something that touches the entire planet, which has to breathe, because it is asphyxiation and every country on the planet. Of course, those largest and most developed countries have the greatest responsibility, but they have each and every one of us individually. One of these steps is shaming, which will be among the ministry's strategic points, because it is the best and cheapest way to reduce the problem of climate change. The environment minister, here Goran Trivan, at the opening of a high-level meeting of the co-ordination mechanism for forest co-operation between China and the Central and Eastern European countries, urged the countries of the region to join Serbia's drilling initiative and to create a common platform for the reforestation of this part of the Balkans, and for China to launch the same action on a global scale as a large country. To remind you, China is a signator of the Paris Agreement, and the Paris Agreement for the first time in history obliges all countries, regardless of the size and strength to affect the reduction of pollution. However, what happened in 2017 came out of the Paris Climate Agreement because they did not want to reduce the emissions of harmful gases, 26 to 28% compared to 2005. In contrast to the United States, the European Union intends to reduce exhaust emissions by 20% by 2050 and by 2050 by 80% to 95%. Our government has established the Ministry of Environmental Protection, precisely wanting our country seriously and responsibly to address pollution reduction and to contribute to our planet's recovery. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45500	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45501	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which highlights once again the importance of adopting this law, and with a special emphasis on the development of the Republic of Serbia and certainly the preservation of ecological development. This is very important, especially in order to meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and to provide more efficient funding from the Green Fund for Infrastructure Projects from IPA Funds in the field of environmental protection. The proposed changes will have a very positive impact on the users of these funds, work intensively in the field of environmental protection and create better conditions for the life of citizens, as well as through proposals for laws that are on the agenda today, and generally work intensively in the Republic of Serbia, both in all areas of social life and in the area of environmental protection. I will give an example, i.e. I am taking the opportunity to point out that on Ub territory, the implementation of activities relating to the project to build a regional municipal waste dump Kalenic, which has the mark of an inter-regional project and is common to the Kolubar administrative district, for the Mačvan Management District and the city of Belgrade. There are 11 cities and municipalities involved. It's just about what you just said about having to work together. I would point out that in August 2014, when the prime minister was Aleksandar Vucic, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded that the project of regional sanitary dump of non-hazardous waste in the territory of Ub municipality was identified as a project of importance for the Republic of Serbia. After that, the transactions relating to property-legal relations for the location at which the construction of a regular sanitary dump with accompanying documentation is planned, i.e. accompanying infrastructure and documentation for it. An assessment of the impact of the project on the environment has been carried out and all the accompanying activities that preceded it for obtaining a building permit where competition documentation, public procurement, construction, equipment and training of regional waste management centre staff by system key to the level of use of the permit. It's all planned until 2021. So, one serious intensive effort to solve the decade of problems, and to protect the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45502	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45503	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia as a small country should learn from those EU countries that have a much more developed system of environmental protection, and Serbia's national parks are one of the highest forms of environmental protection. Serbia must not repeat the mistakes of countries in the region that have failed due to lack of projects to withdraw all available funds from the EU funds. Serbia is estimated to need about 15 billion euros to comply with European and international standards over the next 30 years. The most expensive will be the system of waste management and waste water, which will cost us about seven and a half billion euros. Fortunately for us, the great chance lies in the IPARD funds that are already available to us. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to allow the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds, i.e. to meet the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. Essential amendments to the law concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds, for more efficient provision of funds from the Green Fund, for infrastructure projects from IPARD funds in the field of environmental protection. Therefore, in the voting day, the SNS will vote in favour of this and all other proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45504	Thank you. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45505	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, in accordance with the law we are considering today, so I need to make a few facts and hope that we will find common solutions in this dialogue that will, in the best sense, affect the state of the environment in our country and not just that. So, according to NATO reports, about 31,000 uranium-deprived missiles have been dropped into Serbia. According to our sources, this figure is much larger. The impoverished uranium besides its radiological effect, which is not as intense as, I say, giving meaning, I'm talking about the radiological effect now, it has an extremely toxic chemical effect. And besides that chemical effect, we have faced, unfortunately, various chemical substances and toxins that have been released during NATO bombing. In addition, I will remind you that during NATO aggression 150 thousand tonnes of oil, more than 20,000 buildings have been destroyed, over 120 industrial and energy plants have also been shot down, some have been torn down from the ground, some are partly. What's important and common to all of this that I'm talking about is that thousands of tons of different chemical substances, of which, you'll admit, are very toxic and carcinogenic. What I want to inform you, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the public, is that the assembly committee investigating the consequences of NATO bombing has gone intensively with work. We started working intensively in the sense that, first of all, one relevant, reference scientific methodology is to demonstrate the impact on the health of the population, but we certainly started to examine the environment. What I would insist on, and in accordance with this law that we're talking about, is, first of all, to throw an accent on not only radiological effects, because we talked about it with experts from Vinci, from the ionizing radiation agency, and, to be clear, the field association has already been done, in an earlier period, and in this radiological sense, it is definitely so. But this chemical component, the chemical, toxic component, is something that I would insist on, not only in the work of this committee that I'm running, but I think that the Ministry you run, the respected ministers, too, I think we should look at this problem in an appropriate way. I'm talking about chemical contamination. What is also important and what I propose to this occasion is that there is one coordinated joint performance that must be directed towards looking for certain financial resources from the European Union and the West, above all, for an additional examination of our environment, on the one hand, and then for the possible prevention of disease, on the other hand, for early treatment where necessary and where our country simply cannot provide its maximum. I think that as a people, we deserve it, because everything that happened to us simply drags with us this very fact that we have the right to seek and have an obligation to generations that come first to leave them a healthy environment and in every way, now I'm talking about the human and medical aspect of this problem, in every way to prevent the disease where we can and do early treatment where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45506	Thank you. Minister Goran Trivan has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45507	It seems to me that what you've mentioned at the end of the day is one of the most important things for our people, including the state. But in this case, I think of all the people who live in our places and who have been exposed to a crime that is historic, in a way, at least for me. I'm the head of this coordination body that makes up the departments of health and defense and, of course, a whole series of the most important experts in this area, if that's what we can say. And you and I seem to be doing a compatible job that's important to this country. We've just been on a coordination body, deciding to deal with these issues, and we're talking about that this isn't just about polluting and destroying the full potential in our country. So, we're not just talking about biodiversity and people's lives, we're talking about all this together, because it's all been hurt. We are not only talking about pollution and the consequences that this pollution has had to do with ammunition with impoverished uranium, but also how we have paid particular attention to ourselves to assess that we must pay great attention to the analysis of all the chemical pollution and pollution that has been caused by the bombings of the petrochemical and other capacities that have caused, as far as I am concerned, the immeasurable damage and almost irreparable damage in certain parts of our country. That is why my public invitation was also to the countries that participated in helping professionally. If they think that everything was okay or that there are no consequences to the environment or people's health, why don't they get involved, along with us? Here, I invite them to engage. Our science is a perfect science and our science will make our methods and what we will do together through these actions, both you and we, and so on. A national laboratory that actually represents all of Serbia, comes up with data and methods that will be worldly recognised, and when that happens, then every one of us, all of us in our own way, and we, in our own way, will present these data to the world and domestic public and our data will be scientifically, internationally accepted, because we will deal with worldly recognised methods. And when we get to that, I call on all those who were actors of that so-called. "A merciful angel" to try to show an angelic face and help Serbia remediate and repair the damage they have done in the whole process that is actually criminal. I thank you personally and the rest of you for doing this, as we do, but let everyone contribute, one little pebble, to our need for the truth. It's interesting that no one's ever done that before.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45508	Thank you, Minister. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45509	Thank you. I thank the minister for his comment. I would just add that, indeed, the terms – we, you, would not use it, because together we are on the same path and the goal is the same, which is very important, and that is the way to the truth. We need to get to the truth, and that's beyond doubt. On the other hand, I have to mention, do you think that Italy, a country that is a member of the European Union, would form a committee to investigate the effects of the effects on soldiers on missions, who are staying on a contaminated ground, would you think such a country would form such a commission if it really didn't have a problem? This question is more about some part of the public dealing with the abuse of some scientific facts than with you, but it's simply something we have to mention in this home. So, there's one truth, and that's that unfortunately in our society today, scientific facts are being abused by selectively presenting themselves to the public or presenting themselves in one way, I'd say, in the wrong way. Our fight, now I'm talking about a common struggle of society at all, has to be directed to that as well. We can't let people who call themselves scientists, and in fact they're quasi scientists, who deal with sensationalism, treat ourselves in one media way that's relevant. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45510	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word has a Minister Goran Trivan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45511	In line with what you said, I don't see anything controversial in determining what's true. Because whenever we were able to talk publicly, I have to say that there were people who didn't want to participate in television shows with us, I don't know for what reason. So the scientific attitude could say what we actually say from the ministry and say, Assembly MPs can have one wider angle than those of us who are in the government, say, but when you say, well, why is it so controversial that we try to figure out what happened, because you have a part of the public, which is small though, which challenges our right to determine what is true. Science requires that we deal with every part of the dilemma that exists in our society, whatever it is and I don't see the problem. That's why I'm happy to sit with everyone who's against this. In addition to that question, what question is it that we should establish what is true? The truth might be one thing, maybe another. The science of research will tell us what it is and we are certainly, as you said, absolutely at work together and it seems to me that this front of us is very strong. The very fact in Parliament is this initiative that you have formed here, the committee so widely accepted, that it speaks in favour of what the MPs think, and certainly what our public thinks about it, and our public, firstly, has the right to know what the truth is, secondly, has the right to carry out measures to protect our genetic resources in this territory. And if you want political -- who doesn't want to get on this train that's a matter of justice and the question of the survival of our peoples in this area, I don't know what else could be their goal but that? So, I wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45512	Thank you, Minister Trivan. The National MP, Dr Branimir Rancic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Rancic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45513	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, as part of the amendments I have submitted, I will talk about coordinating the work of the municipal waste dump of the city of Nis from the aspect of environmental protection. The initial document on integrated waste management problems in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is the Waste Management Strategy for the period from 2010 to 2019. The strategy provides for the establishment of regional waste management centres on the principle of minimising the cost of treatment and disposal of waste, i.e. a rational investment of funds in construction and exploitation. In line with the strategy, a regional waste management plan for the territory of the town of Nis and surrounding municipalities and a specific location of the facility was built. Given the current state of waste management, the town of Nis is forced to continue to delay waste at a city dump that has been exploiting for many years. The existing city dump in exploitation is over 35 years old, and only waste disposal was done without prior preparation of the terrain. Unofficially the first quantities of waste at the city dump were delayed in 1968, and the official dump starts in 1971. The need for constant waste disposal without adequate technical solutions has led to artificial waste dams being created at the dump, leading to accumulation of atmospheric waters in two swimming pools, as well as accumulation of average water in the third. As regards the project on the recovery of the Bubanj dumps, the main goal of the project is to start from the congested state of the dump, using and applying all modern achievements and experiences...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45514	Thank you. Finish your sentence. Parliament group time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45515	Well, in general, let me say that this dump is going to work for another three years. A New Sad hydro-base plan has been developed, but a regional dump is being created, covering surrounding municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45516	Thank you, Mr. Ranch. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45517	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, therefore, as I stated in the principle debate, it is very important that local self-government monitors the regulations and measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in this area, therefore, in the area of environmental protection. The implementation of the programme called "Green Nis" is under way in Nis. This is where we see co-operation between the Republic, between the National Employment Service and local self-government. So the contract is closed with the National Employment Service. The realisation of the program began in June of this year. Activities are being carried out to clean up and remove wild dumps, prepare the terrain for the regulation of green public areas on the territory of the city, as well as on the territory of suburban and rural municipalities, as well as the greening of public areas. The value of this program is about a million dinars and eight people have already been hired. Also under way is the competition procedure for public works for the recruitment of unemployed persons in 2018, which were announced by the city of Nis and again by the National Employment Service. The value of this program is about a million and 800 thousand dinars and 14 people will be hired. So local self-government, above all, must work to increase people's awareness of the topic of environmental protection in general. People need to know how important this topic is and if we all personally engage in the protection of the environment, so much will our life be easier and better, but so much more quality, but on the other hand, the Serbian Government will be able to work on implementing the measures planned and continue its path towards Serbia's EU integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45518	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45519	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, this Law on the Protection of the Environment and the proposed amendment, if you accept it, will contribute to increasing the economic resources and the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine and accelerated modernisation is the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Dear People's MPs, the former regime did not take care of environmental protection. A former agriculture minister, Dusan Petrovic, called Dusan Kravoci, instead of solving the environmental problem, ordered that 250,000 cows be slaughtered in one year, making up half of the total fund. That's why he got the name of Dusan cow-killer in the people. And their former Prime Minister, unfortunate Zoran Zivkovic, called a farmer in an attempt, instead of developing environmental protection, he polluted miracles by producing yogurt and watering a chicken vaccine, vaccinated chickens throughout the Colonel, chickens killed and polluted the environment. Zivkovic took the money from the inoculation of chickens and fled and thus deceived the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Vice President, that is why this amendment is important, so that politicians like Zoran Zivkovic and Dusan Petrovic will not appear in the future, which will develop and improve the environment, not as they pollute the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45520	Thank you. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45521	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the New Varoš Municipality's Sustainable Development Strategy until 2020 has defined environmental protection as one of the priority goals of development. The planned revenue of the Nova Varoš Municipality's budget fund for environmental protection is 12 million dinars in 2018. Protected natural goods on the territory of Nova Varoš municipality are the Special Nature Reserve Uvac, as the natural good of the first category, mountain Zlatar, with the highest peak of the Goli hill at 1.627 meters above sea level, the monument of the nature of the cave Bukovik, then, the area of the special beauty park forest Yvlje at the foot of Zlatar. Also, the area of Nova Varosh municipality has been declared an air spa regulation by the Serbian government. The preservation and improvement of the protection of natural goods is top priority of local self-government policy in Novi Varoša. At the same time, recognising the huge tourist and economic potential of natural goods, the municipalities have continuously invested in traffic and other infrastructure in recent years. By building several hotels, sports courts, a multi-functional balloon hall, a new ski course with artificial snowing, there has been a multiple increase in the number of tourists visiting this destination. In 2017, close to 100,000 overnight stays were reached in the municipality of Nova Varoš, and according to data for the first nine months of this year, the trend will continue. In 2012 the total number of overnight stays did not exceed 2,000. A few days ago, it was also completed to pave the way for the waterfield at the foot of Zlatar, in the length of 3,200m, and 25m dinar funds were secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the municipality of Nova Varoš. Investment in the protection of natural resources, with investments in tourism and other potentials that these goods possess, is one of the key factors in the overall development of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45522	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45523	Thank you. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, proposed amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act meet the conditions for applying to obtain funds from the IPARD Fund, and in line with environmental protection measures. IPARD users can be both legal and natural persons dealing with cultivation, production or processing in the area of the food industry, which includes investments in the physical assets of agricultural holdings. It should also be noted that additional funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget need not be identified, and by implementing the proposed law, the Republic of Serbia can benefit greatly from the use of IPARD funds and IPA funds, indicatively defined by the year 2020, amounting to 160m euros. As a result of the inability to supervise natural persons applying for IPARD funds, whether they meet the conditions laid down in the field of environmental protection, since there is no legal basis for the inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture Lands, changes to this law have been made to define the conditions of environmental protection for users of these funds. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on the users of the funds and will thus encourage the development of new economic operators, such as market competition in business branches related to the relation of infrastructure projects in the field of environmental protection and agriculture. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45524	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP, Dr. Mihailo Jokic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45525	Dear Minister, first one statement. Is it true that from the environmental tax on Serbia's budget, about nine billion are coming together annually? Secondly, is it true that somewhere around 2.5 thousand companies are harassingly paying an ecological tax? Is it true that NIS Serbia has not paid a green tax since 2010? Do you know what kind of money that is? Now I'm going to talk about a company that pays regularly, which is Valjevska brewery. Those who came to power in 2000 destroyed and robbed the country of Serbia. They were selling by the next formula. The bookkeeping value, 70% of the bookkeeping value, so when no one calls, and they agree no one comes forward, then they sell it for 30% of the bookkeeping value. We had a situation in Valjev to sell Neimar company for a smaller amount than that company had money on the jury account of SDK, it was still a living SDK, without counting reserves, not counting machines, buildings, etc. Why am I saying this? Because it is now in Valjevo, and I come from Valjev, the current privatisation of "Pivare Valjevo". "Pivar Valjevo" is a state property, so the owner of the state, was once privatized, unsuccessful, means 100% state ownership. The value of Pivara is seven million and 43 thousand euros. The second condition is to invest 2m euros over the next two years. There were a lot of them, they were coming, they were listing, and so on. And when the tender was called, no one answered. And, now, look out. What's dangerous now? What the Valjevs are thinking, whether or not they are members of the Radical Party, whether they are members of the Progressive Party, whether they are members of the Union of Communists, etc., that they do not come up that they did not agree, so that the tender is now being called...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45526	You're bringing the end, colleague Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45527	Please, this is very important. This is for Valjevo. I'm a Valiant MP. Wait, let me say that, because I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45528	There are rules by which you can speak, so up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45529	Look, you can let me talk for another three, four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45530	How much?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45531	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45532	I can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45533	Well, a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45534	I'm sorry, colleague Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45535	It means he's in no hurry, because this "Pivar" has now paid 350 million in the Republic of Serbia's budget for nine months. So, he's paying, the workers are getting paid. ‘Pivar Valjevska’ is the golden coke of Valjeva. He's funding all sports, cultural and other activities, and it would be a sin, it would be a crime if it were done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45536	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45537	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, Article 2 of the proposed amendments to the laws create new financial impulses, primarily in two key areas that are important for the state of Serbia, that is for agriculture and ecology. Basically, when we adopt this Article 2, we expand the base, the scope of institutions that can compete for IPARD funds. With this amendment, we are actually giving small agricultural holdings a chance to compete and receive grants, primarily for fixed assets in the area of the processing of agricultural products and fish and marketing products. Now I would do that, so it's said in the explanation and clarification of this law, a little dyspression. Mr. Minister, I don't need it, it seems to me, that there's a marketing product of agricultural products, but a marketing mix of agricultural products, because maybe it's not a good translation, simply, are different expressions. More like marketing mix. Three hundred fifty thousand agricultural holdings are owned by natural persons. About 2,000 more are registered at the level of business organisations, institutions. They're all interested in IPARD funds. They say the IPARD fund is 160m euros. We still have about two years until 2020. Are we gonna use it? There are a number of conditions, but after the IPARD Fund, two will be new funding, which will be half a billion euros, and without them, 160 million for Serbian agriculture that is given directly into fixed assets. Is it small and is there another fund in the world in such a way that we can use it? That's why this law is important, and that's why this law affects both greening and agriculture and the financing of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45538	National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45539	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, these days when we are discussing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, I am using a special opportunity to express my satisfaction as a citizen of Serbia, I am happy to live in a country that is rich in natural wealth. Our Serbia has over 75 nature reserves, which points to the importance of the work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection itself, every new law that we adopt or the existing one that we change or supplement. I come from the municipality of Kurzumli and the territory of my entire municipality is sort of a nature reserve. The fact was also recognized by the Resort Ministry, and it was these days that a procedure was launched to protect the area of the first category of Kosanica – Djavolja Varoš. For those who have not had the opportunity to come to us, I point out that Kosanica – Devil Varosh has a good conservation system, where the influence of a man is reduced to a minimum. The Devil Varosh has over 220 figures, i.e. a tower formed by the natural erosion of land. Such a natural phenomenon is almost unique in the world. There are similar phenomena on the Alps, on the territory of Italy and Austria and in the province of Upper Savoy in France, but our towers are much larger dimensions than the ones I mentioned. On behalf of my fellow citizens, I thank you, because this will affect the development of tourism in our region. The Devil Varoš attracts a large number of tourists from all parts of the world, but when this area becomes a special nature reserve and when it is protected, it will also contribute to the development of tourism in a much larger extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45540	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45541	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, has been under discussion for a long time on a very important topic. That's what we saw now. Each contributes in its own way in the discussions, according to the knowledge it has in that area. I think they're all well-intentioned, they're different angles of view, but everyone in this room has one goal, and that's to solve this environmental problem. Those who are not, whose representatives are not here, the parties that were once in power were never interested in solving this problem, nor are they interested today. I have to remind you, Minister, and the others, you say -- we're starting now, so it's not like that. So there are municipalities, one of the municipalities of Smederevska Palanka, which is not well mentioned in this summary, which has more than 50,000 inhabitants, who had the problem absolutely solved in 2006. I talked to the primary selection in the household, with proper delays, with all the dumps cleaned up, the education of the population, all the things that need to be done to protect the environment. Some others have come. What's left now? The remaining vessels in every rural household, the POR further devastates that service and says it is now expensive for him, since it has been 10 years, the vessels are damaged, that he wants to change them with containers. It's not the same service, so it'll spoil the way you put it down. What I'm asking you to do is get us to an emergency education. Please, from the Ministry through the Ministry of Education, through you MPs and us MPs who talk to many people different causes that, behold, we say that we are educators about how to put waste away and protect the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45542	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Janjusevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45543	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, the improvement of environmental resources is certainly a function of the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and, from the point of view of those who measure the amount, the percentage of the budget allocated to the area of environmental protection and who say it is small given the complexity and importance of this area and a fifth of the budget to be allocated for environmental protection again can be said to be small. But what's now set aside, if you spend smartly, planically, you can do a lot. And what did Alexander Vukic find with his associates when he got Serbia on the verge of bankruptcy? He's found a deficit. All sold out. So all that could be used was a little bit. And today we have the largest economic growth in the region. We have the largest inflow of foreign direct investment. So we've made little of that growth that we're all proud of today. As much as you invest, for example. like those who have given us lessons, imagine the situation to pay one agency for making the site "Let's Clean Serbia" 25,000 euros and for that money someone needs to create a site and as they say – on it citizens will be able to find maps and data on locations of dumps, available information, so on all dumps. There's one problem, these dumps can't be found, because there's no website. No website, no 25,000 euros. Everything the “yellow company ” had to do for the people is gone, and for them it was to a good degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45544	National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mitrovica, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45545	Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws in Articles 1 and 2 propose another exception to the required obligation to conduct a public competition and to prepare and co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance, in accordance with Articles 89 and 4 of this Act, as well as to the unforeseen costs for the implementation of these projects. I mentioned a dump in the Bujanovac Municipality through yesterday's discussion, so I want to introduce you through this amendment some other things. It is, in fact, that the Republic of Serbia has funded the construction of a transfer station that was to be built in Bujanovac through the co-ordination body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. So since 2015, up to now, 72,000,000 dinars have been paid for these purposes through the coordination body at the expense of the Bujanovac Municipality. About that amount of money has been defined by the Bujanovac Municipality for these purposes, and we have information that the equipment that was to be installed at this transfer station has arrived from donations and is located in the warehouse of the JKP but is not yet being mounted, the reason is that, in practice, the construction of the station transfer for these four years has not even started. I've talked about which problems are created in this dump and I want to inform you, so, despite the fact that the equipment has arrived, local self-government has allocated 24,000,000 to the supply of equipment through the 2018 budget. When we asked a question at the local parliament's session and asked for a report on budget spending and until it arrived with the construction of a station transfer, a response and a report from the president of the Municipality of Shaip Kamberi. So I'm asking you out of your jurisdiction, if you're able to check what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45546	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45547	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, we have these days through these amendments with many aspects given and explained the advantages and importance of this law. I'd like to try a little resuming as much as I can. It is a "small" environmental law that changes and corrects three members, but gives significant and great effects. First, of course, the importance in the field of environmental protection, which is important and we discussed in detail. The second thing, the budget, or funds from the ministry's budget, is not necessary, except for the funds related to the work of inspection jobs. Thirdly, the conditions for withdrawing funds from the EU pre-accession IPARD programme have been formally achieved and we have already said it is not a small sum. By 2020, it is 160m euros, which is too much investment for businesses, businesses and individual producers, related to agriculture, and thus environmental protection. The fourth effect is that these activities will lead to the development of new business entities directly related to the development and implementation of these infrastructure facilities and projects in the field of environmental protection and agriculture. The development of these entities will have a positive effect on employment, so that the usefulness of amending these members of the Environmental Protection Act should also be seen in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45548	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45549	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, to Article 2. I have tabled an amendment encouraging the development of the Republic of Serbia, with a view to improving the ecological heritage. The improvement of the ecological heritage through the preservation of the integrity and quality of the ecosystems of the animal stock, the fertility of the country, the natural beauty and cultural heritage created by man, are essential and priority tasks contained in the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Environment. The town of Užice, from which I come, has a serious problem with air pollution in the winter period due to a large number of individual coal boilers and other environmentally less clean energy. Based on the strategy of the local sustainable development of the town of Užica, for 2012 - In 2020, and in order to address this problem, a decision was made on the establishment of a budget fund for the protection of the environment of the town of Užica in order to implement the co-financing of energy efficiency measures, family, housing facilities in the territory of the town of Užica. The project aims at reducing harmful emissions, i.e. reducing air pollution in the winter period, through savings in energy that will result in better insulation of housing, using environmental fuels, increasing awareness of rational use of energy. As regards the said town of Užice, it has been giving these incentives for four years in a row, so it has been in the period since 2015. In 2018, a total of 37 million dinars were allocated for this purpose. The defined funds subfinance 50% of the value of the investments for the purchase of gas boilers, the installation of insulation and the quality of the carpentry on residential buildings. During this period for these four years, a total of 433 users used these subsidies granted by local self-government. In 2017, a survey was conducted with users of subsidies and based on the results of the survey it was demonstrated that 20% of energy savings were made, 17% decreased emissions of carbon dioxide.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45550	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45551	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen, one of the EU's most important flows is certainly the protection of the environment and this is the topic that will only be discussed in Serbia's further accession process to this organisation of states. Industrial development, population growth, factory opening, an increasing number of means of transport, and many other factors affect the state of the environment as one of the most important topics of the modern era. Chapter 27 is one of the most important in the follow-up of Serbia's EU membership negotiations, and one third of all EU legal standards covers environmental protection. Therefore, there is a great need for our country to bring its policy into line with existing needs. In the past few years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been working intensively to lay the groundwork for further development of environmental consciousness and environmental protection. The Green Fund, which represents the budget line in which incomes are poured to preserve environmental and development, are set up to protect the environment. These provisions are closely linked to the development of the Republic of Serbia, as it is clear that the EU is a leader in nature conservation. A healthy environment, the preservation of natural resources, is in close contact with the entire development of the country. This contributes to the development of tourism, the increase of income, a healthier life and brings a whole range of ways to improve the economy. Alternative waste disposal methods, the creation of organic products and other forms, which go into step with modern countries, can only bring ways to also economically strengthen the state. The Republic of Serbia can certainly boast of the significant and impact our natural resources have throughout Europe. Serbia's national parks are protected from an extremely natural but cultural historical significance. Local self-government in Arangelovac has done a lot since the arrival of SNS in power in the last years when nature conservation is at stake. A lot of resources are invested, and natural monuments of culture and nature get a better look. We hope that the amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment will make this area even better and more precise and will lead to better development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45552	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45553	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the main objectives achieved by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and Elimination of Differences that exist in the current law and international obligations arising from the EU accession process, as well as the creation of opportunities for the use of the Green Fund for Co-financing of projects financed from EU pre-accession funds and the fulfilment of the conditions for the use of IPARD funds. When we say the Green Fund, then it should be pointed out that it is a budget fund that serves to fund all projects that have to do with environmental protection. The Fund is therefore set up to record funding for preparation, implementation of programme development, projects and other activities in the area of the conservation of sustainable use of protection and promotion of the environment. These projects include protecting and improving the quality of air, water and land, forests, as well as reducing the impact of climate change. The Fund also serves to finance the introduction of new clean technologies, as well as the infrastructure needed to improve the environment, and to ensure a stable system of treatment for hazardous waste. Unfortunately, the previous vermin rule succeeded in the previous period, and this fund to shut down, as almost worked its entire life in Serbia. In 2016, it was founded for the second time, and the fund before it was shut down in 2012 because of abuse, non-transparent and poor business. During the fund's work, more than 2,200 signed contracts were not realised and thus created by 5.5 billion dinars. I am sure that this responsible government and ministry, and other competent authorities, will take all measures and activities towards removing obstacles and weaknesses, which have manifested themselves in the work of the fund so far as to increase the allocation of funds, their dedicated use, and the adoption of all necessary sublegal acts that will make it operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45554	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45555	Thank you. Protecting the environment is probably something, and a topic that we can't possibly miss, because all of our actions are practically from environmental impact. And what we're sitting here today, we're heating up this environment, we're breathing oxygen, we're practically affecting the quality of life, and with this being here, not to mention a lot of other things going on outside of this room. Given the limited time, I will be direct and I would ask the minister to, if possible, comment. In the municipality of Koceljev, a waste station transfer was made, which is the predecessor of the Regional Waste Management Centre “Eko Tamnava” Ub. It's been a second year since the transfer of cells practically doesn't work because there's practically no place for the disposal of that part of the waste that won't be selected. That's why it's very important that as soon as the Regional Waste Management Centre starts working. There's been a lot of problems and it's been going on since 2006, so 12 years, there's been two or three duplicates of documentation, etc. I think it's been going the right way lately in terms of making some documentation, and I think it's come to the production of project documentation. Since this includes 11 municipalities from three districts, headed by the town of Valjev, I don't think it's such a small space and I think it's something serious, especially in Kalenić, it's in the 75 ha section, in a work that's devastated by coal exploitation. It's on a 75-ha surface, and my request, since I know that the secretary of state came to the ministry from that space, and that he's ready to carry some activities along with you, I expect it to speed up and we all have profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45556	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jevtic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45557	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, what I forgot to say yesterday, and somewhere I think it should, because of the porch, which is because of the inexperience, that I am very glad that my work here in the National Assembly has started right now when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, because it is somewhere in my area. Of course, I'm glad and I'm happy to notice that when you're talking about this, how you stand up and that euphoria just shows somewhere that the right man is in the right place. I come from Vranjska Banja, a spa that applies to one of the most beautiful smaller ones, I have to be immodest and that today can definitely rank with world, not European, but literally with world spas. Of course, it was not so and it took a great deal of effort to put into all this, that local leadership and, of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia that has been very helpful lately and, of course, the citizens of Vranjska Banja. It wasn't like that, it happened a few years ago that there was pollution in one of the mineral springs, we have a total of seven, and that source of Snow White was polluted. And today there's no accurate information about why it happened, but it's something that triggered local leadership and, of course, the resolution ministry to solve the problem. Of course, the problem has been solved, and this has led somewhere that there is now sanitary protection of mineral water sources, which is very significant. That's not all the local leadership did. A lot of other things have been done on the topic of environmental protection. One of these is the cleanup of river water streams, the creation of derelict dams that help to prevent floods, the construction of ataric roads that can indirectly affect exactly that area, the agricultural, the protection. What I was going to say at the very end, I hope the RES will, of course, keep in mind that it's still investing in environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45558	Thank you. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kostic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45559	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, unlike my colleague, who comes from Vranja Banja, I come from Sokobanje and for me my spa is the most beautiful. In addition to all the problems I have raised, that Sokobanja has problems with environmental protection, my local self-government can also boast that since 1992 it has been organizing "Biennials of ecological cartoons". This biennial took part in 46 countries from the world, there were 230 cartoonists, and it is known that there were over 600 works exposed. This catalogue of these ecological cartoons is not a cost, this is an expense to our future, to our healthy life in the future. I hope that other municipalities will understand that each expenditure in this catalogue is something that will awaken the ecological awareness and that, like Sokobanja, will carry out such events in practice. In addition to the Ecological Caricature Biennial, Sokobanja can also be praised for children's environmental festivals organised every year. The aim of the festival is to bring up children with practical environmental activities through the acquisition of new knowledge and exchange of experiences and thus directly influence the creation of ecological consciousness and eco-friendly behaviour and help overcome existing problems. This year, the foundation of Sokobanje schools took part in the republican eco-quiz competition "Dirty and Pure – Not the same" and the team took fourth place, which is certainly commendable. It is an indication that in Sokobanja it is really working to awaken the ecological consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45560	Thank you. National MP Milan Krivokapic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45561	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with my associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 2 to Article 2 of this Act, which adds Article 3 relating to the growth of sustainable ecological development. First of all, I'm going to say that it's obvious that the essential changes to this law concern meeting the conditions for the use of IPARD funds and more effective provision of funds from the Green Fund for Infrastructure Projects from IPA Funds in the field of environmental protection. I believe the proposed changes will have a very positive impact on the users of these funds. In order for one state to use IPARD funds, there must be strong institutions besides quality projects, which Serbia now has. Because by passing laws and reforms, we have succeeded in the past four years to get our country back on track, the path of progress, and the path of prosperity. We take everything and do it very seriously, and to this end we are harmonising the legislative regulations of the Republic of Serbia with the EU's legal assets in the field of environmental protection and climate change, as well as strengthening institutional capacities for its implementation. In addition, the aim is to develop and improve infrastructure, especially in the areas of waste management, water management and waste water treatment in urban areas. Therefore, these amendments to the laws are also necessary in order to enable the use of the Green Fund's funds to co-finance projects financed from EU pre-accession funds in an effective way to ensure sustainability and stability in the financing of projects in the field of environmental protection. I must stress that for the implementation of amendments and additions to this law, there is no need to provide additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget in relation to the funds already provided for the service of environmental inspection at the Ministry of Environment. On the other hand, the great benefit that Serbia can gain from using IPARD funds is indicatively defined by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45562	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Janošević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45563	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must express my satisfaction with the law on the protection of the environment on the agenda, and it should be, not just for Chapter 27, but primarily for our own sake. We were in a situation where your predecessors, I don't want to belittled, but they simply didn't have time to deal with this area, and since this problem, or the subject of environmental protection, was pushed just under the carpet, they didn't pay attention to it for a minute. I wonder – why? Whether because they didn't have enough understanding, will, but perhaps the knowledge that was certainly missing. I'm glad that we're able to discuss why this is a good law and that we're going to determine how we're going to act in the future, we're making a plan. It's nice to see pictures of European metropolis being decorated, we're loathing garbage in our backyard somewhere, but what is it that we're doing and how are we going to lead in the future? We finally have a plan, you have an absolute view of the situation in cities, I know that you have a cadastre, and that's really a system-based job, you have a good basis for continuing to work, and I sincerely hope that responsibility will awaken with all the factors of society, in order to ensure a healthier environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45564	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45565	Thank you, Your Honor. We've really heard a lot about the importance of passing this law. On this occasion, I would refer to the beginning of today's session and the untruths that Mrs. Marija Janjusevic presented on her Facebook warrant. Namely, a colleague, Marija Janjusevic, wrote on her Facebook warrant today that our Professor Miladin Ševarlic, today, has raised all the MPs to their feet. In the last sentence, Ms Janjusevic pointed out that SNS MP Dragana Barisic was throwing to the professor that cattle were talking about this. It's really embarrassing for a woman, a colleague, to point out such untruths on her Facebook account. If the MPs of Gilas' tycoon-Ljutić regime seemed to pull microphones, insult colleagues, spit, swear sick mothers, none of my colleagues would do such a thing in this high house. What I pointed out this morning, I did throw out my colleague Shevarlic, but I also said that it was a shame that the loss of our people and this accident, which unfortunately hit people on the highway during yesterday's day, was used for daily political purposes and mentioned in this high house. Every day people get hurt and it's really sad and it's really important to pay their respects, but in the absence of the programme politically and in the absence of political arguments and the programs of the parties of their own, it's really for every conviction. If someone doesn't have a program behind them and if they don't know how to win the election, don't use the lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45566	Thank you. The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It wasn't my intention to cause any controversy at all. This morning I considered it a fundamental human, moral obligation that because of the extremely large number of victims during yesterday and this home, the National Assembly, honor and condolences, as you said this morning in your explanation, the families of the dead. We can talk about the programs. I am a non-partisan MP and cannot be held accountable for the actions of members of the parliamentary group to which I belong, i.e. upon my entry into Parliament of the Dwrim and the DSS. I was acting as a non-partisan MP, and I was the only MP on this side of parliament and now and this morning and it's really not appropriate. The way you reacted, if you reacted, I really didn't see who was reacting, but I heard it, it speaks more of you who reacted than of me. Also, it is more than irrefutable that besides the guilt of traffic participants there must be someone else's fault, because on highways where a speed of 130 kilometers per hour is allowed, at a time of digitisation, when there are traffic traffic lights that provide additional information, it could indeed be given information about being in the fog. We have this on all highways outside Serbia, when you go to Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Italy and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45568	Comrade Chevarlich, please do not throw to fellow Members. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45569	I thank you, Chairman. I really didn't want you to, uh, injured by Article 107, namely, the dignity of this assembly. I don't want to go into such replicas and injuries, I don't think this is a moment, a truly great tragedy for our people. Exactly what I wanted to point out is it's a shame that colleagues from the opposition in this tycoon Latvian alliance don't have their own programme and serve the victims. That's how it was a few days ago when unfortunately, injured workers on the bridge. Accidents happen both in the world and in our country, unfortunately, but it is a shame to use them in daily political bickering. That's what hurt me, and this, too, is a colleague of the truth. At no time, respecting the years of colleagues who spoke earlier, I did not say that word in this house nor do I intend to repeat it, but it speaks of a colleague who is here, and this has now tweeted from her own alliance, where, already, from her office, because we have not seen her in the workplace all day and for what she receives a salary from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is reportedly fighting for Serbia. It is seen from the attached that it is a failure and an alliance for Serbia's destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45570	My colleague Barisic, I really cannot judge whether I have violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, with much of your discussion I agree. I find it a great shame for each of us MPs to abuse other people's misfortunes and tragedies for political purposes. I don't want to go into any other discussions, especially from this place, but I'm asking my fellow MPs to refrain, or fences from such individuals, it's not just an excuse -- I didn't know, I don't belong to that MP club, or I don't belong to that political party. What I think is that a man should be fenced if his good will at some point is misused. I also ask my fellow MPs to refrain from commenting on such accidents and tragedies as to here in the National Assembly, and stop blaming political opponents for the accidents that are happening. One more thing, I'd like to ask my fellow MPs not to talk about something they have no idea about, because I'm traveling a little bit and driving a car around Europe, so I know what the signaling is. Do you want colleagues Barisic to plead? No, I don't. ( ) Comrade Chevarlich, on what basis did you answer? (Miladin Ševarlic: she mentioned me. ) My colleague Barisic advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're not entitled to a replica on the part of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45571	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, as I was saying in the first amendment, an environmental bomb was launched in Sapac a few days ago that city authorities were hiding behind the walls of the JKP "Old Town" from the citizens of Sapca. Instead, when it all came out, they began to clear the litter of Nebojsa Zelenovic, Mayor of Sapca, began an investigation into who was allowed to reveal a strictly guarded secret by burying an unprecedented torture against workers. First of all, he collapsed on his subordinates, because only a few days earlier he gave an order to everyone in the city administration that Sapac should not be given any bad word until November 6th, when Nebojsa Zelenovic, assisted by his special adviser Dusan Petrovic, should speak to the Council of Europe, of course, again in a negative context about his country, just as he did by going to Pec, sitting under the flag of the self-proclaimed unrecognizable state of Kosovo, giving them legitimacy. Realising that it is no longer a secret, the mayor of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic, begins to deal with workers working in impossible conditions, through his subordinated Zoran Damjanovic, Miroslav Maksimovic, who have fallen to the workers in the most brutal manner. Those workers were just working on someone's orders. Whose will we see, I hope, after the findings of the Republic's inspection. Also, we'll see by whose orders these same workers are forced to work overtime, so that sometimes their working day lasts until 17, 18 and 19 hours. And so out of the famous law-abiding shabbards of the city government who are constantly claiming to be persecuted, chicanized and emboldened, they are doing exactly the opposite, committing unprecedented repression against workers, endangering the health of the people of Capca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45572	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Here you go, colleague Mike.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45573	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with collaborators, today when we talk about protecting the environment and when it comes to improving the environment, or about improving ecosystems, we cannot, first of all, talk about the conservation of ecosystems, about preserving the environment, that is to say, to improve something first, we need to preserve what exists. When it comes to the biotop, to take just an example of the new trees being planted, whether in windscreens or in other locations, it is important to preserve that tree that was planted five, ten years ago. It's not worth anything to plant a new one if we don't keep it. Also, with regard to biocinosis, or the living world that lives on the biotop, it is very important that every single and plant and animal world within the circle of their existence is preserved. Speaking of birds in Serbia. We in Serbia have about 360 species of birds of which about 40% of them are according to some European standards should be particularly protected. I come from Kickinda and Kikind is known as the world's largest owl habitat, i.e. An owl's utina, specific to the fact that owls are sewn, or owls' nests in winter, in the very center of the city, i.e. the pedestrian zone, so that in the previous winter we had 743 individuals in the square, and only one tree is counted 145 individuals. This is very important because, as I said, every species and bird and any other animal is important in the food chain and the survival chain of all animal species at all. Children in Kikinda, all of the population, but above all, children are particularly educated about the importance of this species, but our farmers look forward to the owls that come to Kikind because they eat over a million rodents a year and it helps to preserve crops very much. The conscious phenomenon of owls shrugs in the Kickinda is becoming our trademark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45574	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45575	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, as a summary of everything that has been said on the topic of environmental protection, some conclusions are made, that the topic is very important, that we are all in order to do everything possible to ensure that natural good protection and that this government is the first to make concrete and significant measures that are directly aimed at preventing further endangering the environment and preserving biological balance. Once again, environmental defense should be a permanent obligation for all members of society. If everyone in the chain respects their role that is important in preventing dangers and risks, then we can say that we are responsible for a nation that responds to increasing warnings of nature. In Bor, after providing clean air, we entered the design technical documentation for the construction of collectors and wastewater treatment plants in the Borska River Basin, it is about 26 million dinars, and one part of the project is part of the Republic. Therefore, the construction of a wastewater processing plant is planned, planning a reconstruction of 25km of underground water supply systems for the city of Bora by drinking water and building a system for the reception of atmospheric waters. Since the project also provides for the introduction of a third altitude phase, i.e. the zone, it means a huge energy savings that we now spend on bringing drinking water to the city's highest corner. In addition, water losses in the underground system, which currently account for as much as 65% due to network limitations, will be significantly reduced. Another major project is the development of project-technical documentation for the regulation of waste water from the settlement Metalurg in Bor, in the Basin of the Brestovac River. The value of this project is about 30 million dinars. Really big steps that will bring us great benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45576	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zarko Bogatinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45577	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Minister Trivan with his associates, another environmental resource owned by the town of Leskovac, next to the central wastewater treatment plant, is certainly the regional sanitary dump of Zeljkovac. The municipal waste is being organised and is being collected from the town of Leskovci into 80% of the settlement territory, on the territory of the city. For the collection and disposal of solid municipal waste, in the territory of the town of Leskovac, as the Jablanic district, the company "Por" Leskovac, is in charge of a company formed by the Austrian company Por Venet and Veber as a public private partnership. By forming this company, organized collection, the removal of municipal solid waste has been greatly improved. The municipal waste shall be driven by special vehicles and delayed to the regional sanitary dump of Željkovac. The Zeljkovac sanitary dump, run by PVV DOO Leskovac, is part of a national waste management strategy designed to build 29 regional dumps in the Republic, 44 collecting stations, 17 recycling centres. The Zeljkovac sanitary dump is built according to the highest ecological standards and extends to an area of 80 hectares with a protection belt of 30 to 40 hectares. A centre was built to select collected municipal waste. In line with the national strategy on waste management and the Waste Management Act, the town of Leskovac has developed a local waste management plan that defines preconditions for a sustainable integrated waste management system for a long-term period of 10 years. The activities implemented by the town of Leskovac and contributing to the establishment of co-operation between local self-government and the public, as well as the strengthening of the ecological awareness of citizens and based on the Archon Convention, and a set of national laws in the field of environmental protection, are co-operation with educational institutions, the organisation of tribunes, round tables and seminars from the area of establishment of seminars, but the most important action is the action of cleaning of wild dumps on the territory of the town of Leskovac, which has been carried out since September 2013 and a total of 250 locations have been cleaned and more than 3,000 tonnes of solid municipal waste have been carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45578	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirko Krlić submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Mole, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The development of ecosystems and even the environment in many ways depends on synergy with agriculture, water and forestry, and we have heard this in today's debate many times and this compatibility is, in fact, the essence of its progress, and progress needs money. We must make use of all available funds, pre-accession, which is referred to by law and IPARD and all other financial resources to make that progress. Despite their general awareness and conscience, those who want to abuse this issue and put it all back on track because of their political combinations. A few days ago in this House, we had government issues, a colleague who is unfortunately not here, I wish she had raised the problem of the Voluntary Village, Banatical Karadjordevo. For your information, it's about a village of fighters who sacrificed their lives, sacrificed their youth to come from America, mostly of character and Montenegrin origin, to the Thessaloniki front, and these volunteers who first climbed the Kymakcalan under Duke Vuk's command in the Drinsk division. Half of them didn't come back, they left the bones there, and indeed any taking away the land from these volunteers would be a sin and would be a great crime. Of course, it's not about that, that country was bought with blood and courage, but this is about the decision on the membership, which was made in 2011, then the SNS wasn't in power, but I don't criticise DS and those who made it. It was necessary to get the property together. It was necessary to enable irrigation, to create new systems, to move into new production, and it binds to this law in order to be compatible with all the funds that should be used there. Of course, out of the 1050 participants in the contest, all 50 were objections and no one was replaced by a country without a personal signature. I'm just going to say, in the end, I wonder, where are the limits of human wickedness and envy?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45580	Thank you. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Bojanich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45581	Thank you, Your Honor. Before continuing where I left off today at the end of the second amendment, is education in the field of ecology, colleagues launched a very nice topic – what is the best spa in Serbia? I'll answer them. The best Serbian spas, Vrnjačka, Bogovačka, Mataruška, Banja Gornja Trepca, Seječevska Banja is located in the nearest vicinity of the town of Kraljeva, so we have solved everything. In the 1980s, they were very important for changing the views of all countries, that is, the whole world on the issue of environmentalism, so in 1971, the UN organised the first International Conference on the Human Environment to conclude that the level of human-environmental imbalance is dramatic. Next, in 1972, the first UN Conference on the Protection of the Human Environment was held and the UN Environment Programme UNEP was born. In the 1980s, the idea of sustainable development was born and the shortest possible interpretation of this term, sustainable development, which I mention in all of my exhibitions has recently been – Do not take more than nature itself can restore and then it covers only the ecological dimension of sustainable development. After that, in 1983, the UN Commission for Environment and Development was formed and a document that it brought forward after four years of work, the concept of sustainable development was expanded by linking environmental issues, preserving nature with all other issues. I'll proceed with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45582	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Djurishich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45583	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable People's MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Environment, and it reads - Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Environment, which amends Article 90v of the Environmental Protection Act, adds a new position 3 which reads – the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to improving sustainable ecological development. In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment shall be amended and complemented in Article 90v of position 1 by amending and voting point 21 – Preparation and co-financing of projects financed from EU pre-accession assistance in accordance with Articles 89 and 4 of this Act, as well as unforeseen costs related to the implementation of these projects. Also, a new 21a point is being added – Co-financing of projects financed from international aid exchanges and other financial sources that require co-financing. Otherwise, Article 90v of the Environmental Protection Act provides for all uses of the Green Fund in accordance with this law and the National Environment Protection Programme and static documents, as well as the obligation for users to use these funds in a way and within the time limits set by the contract on the use of funds. The Serbian Progressive Party is fulfilling its programme task of preserving and improving the environment, given the previously irresponsible attitude towards the environment and the non-compliance with the rules that have resulted in the threat of natural goods and the neglect of citizens' participation in the process of making a decision on the environment. In voting day, I will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45584	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Member Compirović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45585	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in their nature, the environment exceeds the political and legal frameworks and boundaries created by man. The main goal is to improve the quality of the environment, protect human health, achieve wise and rational use of natural resources and advance measures to address global problems. We must make an effort to raise the level of public awareness, use resources in the most efficient way and eradicate harmful behavior, so that future generations will not be deprived of what belongs to them. That's why we're working and we have to work to correct the damage caused to prevent the destruction of the environment. All areas, such as agriculture, energy, traffic, fully take part in environmental and environmental financing decisions. The establishment of the Green Fund shall allocate resources to users, in order to protect, preserve and improve the environment and protect and improve the conservation of air, water, land, forest, save and impact of climate change. Ensuring and preserving the environment, protecting natural resources and water, creating green areas, with the aim of living in a safe and healthy environment – this is the goal of our government and it is working on it. My amendment to the proposal for this law, in Article 2, is heading towards the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the protection of natural goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45586	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Grubor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45587	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, a major degradation of the environment in Podrinj, was caused by dam damage at the "Stolice" mine in Kostanik, in 2014, at a time of great floods. The gap, which houses about 1.2 million tonnes of mineral waste, due to the excessive amount of water accumulated within the Jalovina, has led to a drop in dam stability and spilling over 100,000 metres of cubic mud from the Jalovišta River into the Kostanik stream, further in the Korenita River, Jadar, Drinu, Sava. A flood wave covered the land area between 50m and 75m wide, with a sedimentary layer of 5-10cm. In surface water samples downriver from the Jalovište, a high concentration of arsenic, zinc, copper, chromium, lead, nickel has been established. The results of the analysis of samples of agricultural land and mud in the immediate vicinity of accidents showed extremely high concentrations of arsenic, lead and zinc. This affected not only the flora and fauna of the region, but also the health of about 15,000 citizens whose homes, courtyards and properties suffered great damage in the ecological disaster. The dam was rehabilitated by the EU Solidarity Fund to finance emergency operations and recovery operations, resulting from a major flood disaster in the Republic of Serbia, worth 219 million dinars. The Japanese government funded the production of project documentation worth $200,000. I thank them this time. And I especially thank our president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who returns life to Podrinje, by bringing the Chinese company "Mint" to Loznica, which will invest 100m euros in a new factory and create thousands of new jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45588	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45589	This company is one of the world leaders in the area of design, production and sales, both structural and decorative parts for cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45590	National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45591	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to protected natural goods. However, before I speak of protected natural resources, I cannot help but look back at the ecological aspects that forests have in the Republic of Serbia and in the whole planet at all. That forests have such great significance, it also tells the fact that forests are actually our planet's lungs, because they're the largest oxygen producer. The reforestation and creation of new forest plantations and how important it is from the aspect of climate change, which are otherwise highlighted in the Sustainable Development Recommendation by 2030, where one of the proposed ways to combat climate change is to reforestation. But I must stress here a conference that referred to climate change, to your coming forward at this conference, in which you have just highlighted the importance of shaming, in order to prevent the negative effects on climate change, but I must stress that in the context of this conference, and in the framework of the China's co-operation mechanism with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, its representative, the Chinese representative, and it is the deputy director of the state administrator for forestry, who has just stressed the importance of bilateral co-operation with the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, precisely in the co-operation of scientific and research institutions, i.e. the co-operation of universities and other institutions dealing with the protection and improvement of the environment. Expanding scientific and research co-operation beyond Serbia's borders, especially with China, which is globally...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45592	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45593	... One of our most important partners, of course, will contribute to the improvement of the environment and to the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45594	Thank you. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45595	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity of my amendment is to point out the need to preserve rare plant and animal species, while contributing simultaneously to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, you probably know that in November of last year, a three-way contract was signed between the city of Subotica, the Ministry of Construction and the German KFW Bank. The topic of the contract is a six-and-a-half million-euro donation, and the goal is to solve the decades-old problem of lake water in Lake Palic. It is a decades-old, ecological and development problem, which burdens both Subotica and the entire north of Backo. The whole process is being monitored by an Austrian consulting house, which only a month ago gave very positive assessments of the project's work so far. Otherwise, the work on the project also meant the expropriation of the coastal area, i.e. coastal plots, coastal plots on the Palić lake. That job was done somewhere in 80%, and I'm going to tell you that before the current mayor and his team took over the project, we didn't have any resolved cases in the expropriation process. The plan is by the end of the year to select a contractor for the construction of a sewerage network, to build a cycling trail around the lake Palic, which will in fact represent a kind of buffer zone, which will prevent harmful matter from being poured into the lake Palic, and thus solve this decades-old problem. Why am I telling you all this? This is an obvious example of how responsible behavior and responsible approach can solve decades of problems. This problem is related to your work cycle, it is an environmental problem, at the same time the development problem for Saturday, and since this legislative proposal that is now ahead of us is one step in that direction to solve decades of problems, we will support your legislative proposal in the day of voting. My amendment is only in the function of further clarification of Article 2 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45596	The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45597	Dear MPs, Palic is one of the most beautiful pearls we have in Serbia and you have only touched a fraction of that because he is important. Your colleagues came to us, of course, I've been there many times on different occasions, and it takes too long for my taste. Seeing that the new administration in Subotica very agilely approached the attempt and solving of these problems and not only those you said, because it seems very modest to me, I must say that the Ministry of Environment is ready to help and financially everything we can help there, because Palic, I said, has an exceptional importance, of course. Say hello to your colleagues there, of course. Speaking of this, the question I was waiting for the moment to answer and actually to say information about Kalenić, for Ub, Kalenić is very important and what was controversial in Kalenić was a matter of location, which has its advantages and disadvantages. I'm a practical man and I think it's possible to solve it one way or another. I formed a special group that deals only with Kalenić, related to the creation of a project task, so that the regional dump would be built as soon as possible, which will happen and will include not only the deposit of this material, but also the treatment of waste. What is important to you, it is that we will support the construction of the transfer stations through the financing of project-technical documentation and through financing, construction. So there are other parts of Serbia that are extremely important, and that is understood. It's planned to build nine transfer stations, including you, of course, and I want to tell you that the funds for the project technical documentation for the transfer of stations in this year, and if we're going to finance the works next year, then we're working.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45598	Thank you. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45599	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the issue of the environment is the issue of our country's future and we must all work together to resolve these issues. National targets in this area exist and priorities are waste water, municipal waste, land remediation and deforestation. Many take the environment for granted, but pressure on the limited resources of planet Earth grows at an unprecedented rate. We must make an effort to raise the level of public awareness, use resources in a more efficient way and eradicate harmful and wasteful behavior. Our behavior gives planet Earth great tasks. During the 20th century, the world has increased fossil fuel consumption 12 times and is used 34 times more material resources. The demand for intentional, animal and fibre food can increase by 70% by 2050. If we continue to use resources at the current rate of exploitation, future generations will be deprived of what is rightfully theirs, and that is a healthy environment. Therefore, the main objectives should be to improve the quality of the environment, protect human health, achieve wise and rational use of natural resources and improve international measures to address global or regional environmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45600	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45601	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I absolutely agree with my predecessors and more with everyone today who has talked about ecology in different ways, and that's a matter that can't be roofed out to run just a resolute ministry, but it's a matter that has to go down deep to the level of local self-government, like when someone needs to take care of their own yard. That's how I experience every local self-government that needs to give its maximum. Of course, ecology isn't just a matter of general culture. Ecology has its own price, especially when collecting garbage, forming different dumps and maintaining them. I say I agree with most colleagues who have commented on this today, but my colleague from Vranjska Banja, whom I appreciate and respect, said today that Vranjačka Banja can be praised for her question about when the economy is on the agenda, how good we are, etc. Unfortunately, I have to say it because I'm provoked. I don't agree with that, because the dump, first of all, is on the banks of the Morava River in Vranjska Banja. So, absolutely not arranged, I don't have that photo now, and after every rain or a little bit of water, all that water is retreating along with Morava headed for Triestenik. Someone can't tell me it's community leadership. I am an opposition in Vranjska Banja, but constructive and I cannot accept that the president of the municipality in the time of the savings buys a luxury car for his cabinet, and for one serious question like the dump we never have enough money. (Verica Radeta: invests in her own building. I can't comment on that, colleague. So, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, I say, we will support all these laws, because they are absolutely correct, normal. I'm sorry they haven't been on the agenda before, but that's just the way it is. When I say that I am a constructive opposition, I have managed to provide a donation through the president of my party, one vehicle for collecting and depositing the administrative waste I'm talking about, but I still disagree with the story that it should be spilled on the river on the coast of Morava, and I see a direct culprit in this very city's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45602	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45603	Article 107. - dignity. I don't think there's an environmental theme here whether or not the president of a municipality bought an expensive car. What I'm trying to say is that Boban Djurovic is doing a great job at Vranjska Banja. The esteemed colleague probably looked at it from another angle, but in 2012 the budget was 518 million, in 2017 900 million. We have recently opened new tourist facilities and potentials, and I believe that a man who manages the municipality in this way cannot be described here through the purchase of a car. We're going in a row, so when we get to that car, let's get it together, get it all together, get someone to draw conclusions about working in Vranjska Banja and Boban Djurovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45604	Would you like to vote in the day that the National Assembly pleads for your violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word is "The Faith of Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45605	I don't know why my colleague intervened a little while ago for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I speak on the basis of Article 27(1) of the Rules of Procedure. You know, that someone in this way is trying to defend a president of the municipality, especially when defending undefense, it simply doesn't have anything to do with the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't have anything to do with what a colleague used to say before him. You know, did Vrnjaka Banja have the biggest budget? She had, so it is a tragedy, the biggest budget, and the question is where it was spent. We talked about Vranjska Banja both through these amendments and in the principle debate. In Vrnjačka Banja seven acres of the most beautiful part of the park has been sold to a private. In Vranjska Banja, this Boban builds buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45606	Fellow Radetas, you're already using it as a replica of a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45607	Same as a colleague who just got hurt by the Rules of Procedure. No, please, Arsic. In the same way, however his colleague Krsto Janjušević explained to the Rules of Procedure why he had not told the truth about Vranjska Banja before him, I am now saying that he was not telling the truth about Vranjska Banja. It's completely identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45608	And you're from Vranjska Banja?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45609	I've got to be from Vranjska Banja, I'm a folk MP. I'm a folk MP, and I've seen these buildings made by the president of the municipality and in the APR everyone can see that his firm owned these facilities, so when they told him it wasn't good, he changed the owner in the APR, but the APR doesn't delete the data, go back, it's originally the president of the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45610	Thank you, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45611	So don't defend undefense, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45612	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Aleksandra Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45613	First of all, I think this is not the place to talk about ecologicality and environmental protection and some of the personal conflicts you have with the president of Vrnjaka Banja Boban Djurovic municipality. What you have at the local level should be kept at the local level, and we're working out some other questions here somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45614	Just name a member of the Rules of Procedure, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45615	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45616	You can't get a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45617	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45618	You cannot get a replica, and I would ask fellow Members of Parliament, who are also committee members of local self-government units that problems from their local self-government, as MPs do not transfer them to the Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic: He mentioned a woman not to tell the truth. I didn't hear him mention his name. But before that, he has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ask for a colleague's word. I'll give you the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45619	Of course. I think I definitely have enough arguments to say. It's just, since 2012, I can't count what's been done in Vrnjačka Banja. Total change from infrastructure. The last thing that was done was rebuilding the home of health, which is phenomenally looking, means not only ominous, but also what was done and what was done about this isolation and all these details. As for park renovations, fountains, squares, squares, I just, I don't want to mention anything right now and give less meaning to it. But, I'm saying, I'm just upset by the attitude of my colleagues that I'm saying, this personal conflict has put in the first place, and I don't think there's any time or place, and the ugliest part of it is that we're both from Vranjska Banja and we're very well aware of what the spa looks like today. I didn't do anything wrong. The spa really looks world-class. Today, probably, people who were some years back wouldn't even recognize what a spa looks like. I am proud to come from Vrnjačka Banja, I am proud of the management of Vrnjačka Banja municipality what they have done. I don't know why my colleague is reporting for this injury and I say it's very ugly and I'm just embarrassed to hear the debate in Vranjska Banja Assembly, but I'm just ashamed of some of the comments that my colleagues make to each other, and I don't think that's the time or place. As far as those seven acres, as you've already mentioned, I don't know, honestly, I'm a little nervous about all this, that's not true. It's not true because the land that's under certain objects is sold, I don't want to be dealing with these numbers anywhere, I don't know the exact number, but I think there's about two or three acres that had to be done somewhere because these objects that were on that land had to be legalized. So, I think you're baratating, first of all, you're not from Vrnjaka Banja, I don't know where you get that information, and don't mess with unchecked information about selling seven acres of park surfaces. So it's back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45620	Now in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. (Miss Radeta: By the Rules of Procedure.) There was a break, I couldn't break the Rules of Procedure. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45622	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, proposed changes and additions, as well as availability in the use of EU pre-accession funds, aim to encourage the development of new economic operators, greater competition, especially in the case of business branches linked to the realisation of infrastructure projects in the field of environment and agriculture. These measures will contribute to the faster development of our agriculture, which is a pillar of our economy, largely dependent on Serbia's overall development. In the areas of agriculture, water, transport, land protection from erosion, environmental protection and biodiversity, as well as the creation of micro-climate conditions are affected by wind protection belts. While they are almost mandatory in Europe, there is no such thing as duchy plains. Although they are in the period from 2000 to 2012. In 2016, the allocated funds for raising them do not exist because this was also the project of the former regime for the robbery of municipalities, provinces and republics, just as with the "Let's Clean Serbia" project. Fighting allegedly to raise the level of protection and environmental arrangements in Novi Knezevic are fictitiously employed farmers and eco-readers, raised wind protection belts, without seedlings, removed wild dumps from agricultural land without machinery and means of transport, all of this to their connected faces and companies without competition and public procurement. All of this has been notified by the competent authorities, and to protect the environment in my municipality today, it says that a recycling yard has been built in two years, six and a half thousand tonnes of garbage has been removed from agricultural land and more than 150 million dinars have been invested in the water network and waste water treatment system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-10-10-0.u45623	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
