ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to thank the Academy Chorus of the "Retired Association" of the city of Novi Sad. [[intonating anthem]] Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 156 MPs are present in the hall, now 161 MPs. As it is today, I am opening the possibility for the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28792	Thank you, President. Today, it's 50 days since Oliver Ivanovic was killed. Fifty days of Oliver Ivanovic's family and Serbian citizens did not get an answer from who killed Oliver Ivanovic. My question is Police Minister, Prime Minister – who killed Oliver Ivanovic? My question is to the police minister, the secretary of the Bureau of Security -- what did it say, what did Oliver Ivanovic say and who he pointed to as a threat to his personal security? I think that the family and citizens of Serbia deserve to get an answer as to what the state is, if we can't already investigate who were the direct perpetrators of the murder, then we can take over the family and the citizens of Serbia and we are obliged to respond -- who by Oliver was called a threat to his safety and what is on the basis of the knowledge that such threats exist the state of Serbia has taken over? Is it, and we know it isn't, then at least let's find out why nothing was done to strengthen the security measures and prevent the crime that took place 50 days ago? I'm aware, and I doubt I'll get an answer to this question asked like this. I believe that other colleagues will also ask for answers to these questions. I know that initiatives have been put in place to form a committee of inquiry. We will support it, and I'm sorry that today, I think, this congregation is the only place still spoken in this tragic case. The second question is for the Prime Minister and the finance minister – why did the state of Serbia not do anything to make changes in its work, to adopt recommendations that the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering sent to the government in July 2016 as a commitment to Serbia to legalise Serbia as a country where it is not possible to launder money from which corruption and crime is financed, as well as terrorism? Why hasn't it been done for more than a year and a half, which resulted in Serbia being the only country from the European continent in the society of ten other countries, such as Iraq, Syria, Yemen, Ethiopia, Tunisia, countries marked by the International Anti-money Laundering Body as a country that is risky and which do not meet the standards to prevent money laundering financed by corruption, crime and terrorism? For a year and a half, the management's recommendations were in government. A year and a half of the recommendations and action plan proposed by the Administration have not been discussed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. In February, in principle, someone from the government committed before this body that the state of Serbia would take what it had committed, which it had not done for more than a year and a half. As a result today, gentlemen who love the various world lists on which Serbia is located in one place or another, is that we are the only, I repeat, a country from Europe on this disgrace list, only because the government didn't want to do anything. My question is: why did the government not want to do and take measures to prevent money laundering financed by corruption, crime and terrorism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28793	Thank you. Jovan Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28794	Thank you. My first question will be referred to the president and the foreign minister, Mr Dacic, and it is related to the local elections that have not yet been settled, and it refers to their statement that Serbia in the future will seek and send, in fact, observers to elections in all those countries that have been sent by observers and elections to us. Given the number of countries sent by observers, as well as the number of observers they sent, this would certainly be an unnecessary cost, so I would like first of all to ask the foreign minister to explain the plans involved. Instead of sending observers to the elections in developed democratic countries, it would be better for the government to address all the problems and the negative trends we are being observed for. Here, I will refer partly to what Mr Djurisic said earlier, meaning that those problems that are being identified by the prestigious international organisations that Serbia unfortunately is falling for are being removed. These are reports of transparency "Transparens International" where its perception and corruption index has increased, i.e. we fall on that list, then "Fridom House", which points to a further deterioration of democracy in Serbia, especially in the field of media, justice, political party financing, then border-free reporters, which, of course, points to problems in the field of media, and finally what Mr Djurisic mentioned, is putting it on the blacklist when it comes to laundering FAT money. So we found ourselves in a society of countries like Iraq, Yemen and Syria, which certainly has a negative impact on the image of Serbia in the world and on reputation. The question is how will this affect foreign policy and foreign economic relations and attract foreign investment, and are our priorities now to attract investment from countries where the resources of questionable sources and origin are? Without solving these problems that are the core of Chapters 23 and 24, there will be no substantial progress towards the EU, and I will remind you that in the first sentence of its exposé, the prime minister cited it as the government's strategic priority. The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, when will the competition for scientific research projects finally be launched? This is a very complex problem and has been done for years on the basis of the old projects that you highlighted in 2013 or 2014. Therefore, young people, young researchers, young talented people cannot enter projects, or they can enter projects only if it is a replacement. I know that a competition for the reception of young researchers on projects was finally launched a few weeks ago, but these criteria that are unclear, which the ministry has announced and are not given the main word to project managers who know best what profile of young researchers they need. In addition to this problem, we have an evaluation problem, that for years the Ministry has not carried out this evaluation, and that profits are accounted for on the basis of internal categorization, not based on previous results. This is why researchers cannot progress from one category to another, leading to further pressure and the departure of our professional people abroad, and without science and research there is no progress in any modern country. There is also no support for international co-operation, which is why we are missing opportunities to influence those international projects such as Horizon 2020, to influence their content and to adapt as much as possible to our needs. The question for the Minister of Agriculture, given the flood we have in Nisavska County and the state of emergency in Zajecar, Prokuplje and Doljevac, and especially in light of Goran Puzovic's statement, the director of "Serbia", who warned that large stocks of snow are in the Alps, and if there is a sudden melting of snow, we will face major floods, what was done on this issue? Finally, again for Minister Dacic, when will the law on foreign affairs finally enter the assembly procedure? He announced it on the Committee on Foreign Policy a year and a half ago, and his predecessor, Ivan Mrkic, also announced it in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28795	Thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28796	Thank you. My first question was addressed to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic about the numerous irregularities observed on the day of elections in Belgrade. So, these irregularities were reported by registered election observers and also by representatives of the electoral lists who participated in the elections, and also by citizens and they were published in public. I am looking for these notifications because there have been physical attacks at certain polling stations just mentioned registered observers and individual citizens. The conduct of parallel lists of voters has also been observed, which raises suspicions of unauthorized insight and abuse of a single polling list, and also raises doubts about the number of residence applications on Belgrade City's territory from other municipalities and cities across Serbia. That is why I ask Minister Stefanovic to deliver explanations and information from the minutes made in the light of police representatives from police administrations in Belgrade's territory, specifically in two polling stations. Especially at polling station No. 1 in New Belgrade in the rooms of the Public Water Company "Serbia" in Brodarska No. 3 and at polling station No. 66 on Starar, MZ Novo Mirijevo 2, Mirievski Venac No. 20, there are physically injured CRTA observers, there have been physical accounts and incidents and police have been called and it is certain that, based on the established police intervention record, data and explanations can be extracted. Also, there are others in Starar, other than CRTA as a registered election observer and representatives of the election lists "We do not strangle Belgrade", DS, the Movement "Enough" reported irregularities. So, a specific question for Minister Stefanovic, under one, how many residence applications in the new home address are registered in the territory of the City of Belgrade and how many residences on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from which municipalities and cities were registered in Serbia during the period from 1 September 2017 to 4 March 2018? Under two, how many new ID cards were issued in the period from 1 September 2017 until 4 March 2018 in the territory of the City of Belgrade? My second question was addressed to Minister of State Administration and local self-government Branko Ruzic, as he is in charge, i.e. his resolution ministry is in charge of managing the single electoral list, so that Minister Ruzic delivers explanations and information on the number of newly registered and deleted citizens from the polling list from 1 September 2017 to 4 March 2018 in Belgrade territory and in three municipalities where local elections were also held, so in Bor, Arangelovac and Sevojn. Under number two, how many calls were made on the day of the election, this is a question for Mr Ruzic, on 4 March 2018 in Belgrade from three municipalities where local elections were held, Bora, Arangelovac and Sevojn, on the state administration and local self-government ministry's telephones, what complaints were and what did the ministry specifically do, intervened from the scope of its responsibilities in the event of irregularities? Why these notes and explanations are important and are suspected of violating the provisions of the Criminal Code, i.e. criminal acts against the freedom of both man and citizen, so a whole series, which are regulated by members 155 to 160. Infringement of voting rights, giving and receiving bribes in connection with voting, abuse of voting rights, assembling incorrect voter lists, preventing vote keeping and breaching voter secrecy. So, we ask the resolute ministers Stefanovic and Ruzic for concrete data on these irregularities, what they have specifically done and what they will do to correct the mentioned irregularity within the jurisdiction of their resolution ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28797	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28798	The issue for Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Blastic Nebojsa, a graduate lawyer with a 27-year trial worked as an inspector at the Nis Police Administration until 27 November 2015, when he was retired without any explanation. In addition to numerous complaints, he has not been returned to work in addition to the decision of the Administrative Court in his favour. The question is raised by the Minister of the Interior what is the background of the removal of a police officer who exposed the drug mob and who only has the best grades and confessions for his work? Namely, Blatić Nebojsa was the holder of the case at the Nis Police Administration on the basis of which 17 people were arrested as of September 25th 2015. In a report made up by his superior, he said several companies should continue control in Belgrade and submitted the report on 6 October 2015. Police Director Milorad Veljovic then made an express decision on his retirement the next day on October 7th 2015. Since the owner of one of the companies that should have been further controlled, while also owning a large media house close to the SNS and friends of people in the SNS principle, I am asking the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic is the real reason why the early retirement of a responsible police officer and one father who supports his family and three children? Mr. Blatic did not allow his case to go away just like that and he used all the legal means to appeal. Following his application for a pension solution, Mr. Blatić continued to work on the basis of the case he handled on 27 November 2015, and suspected of being assisted by a member of the Niš SNS. On that same day, several hours after filing this criminal report, he was given a solution by which his application for early retirement was refused. I ask the question that has been ruled by the service's needs in this particular case, especially in view of the fact that Mr. Blatić has remained in retirement until the general conditions for retirement have been met for six years, that he has not requested retirement, that there is no reason for retirement and that at that time he is engaged in important cases, that some fellow seniors who have not received such a solution were also on the retirement list? On 1 December 2015, Blatic filed a complaint to the Administrative Court in Belgrade, in order to annul the Serbian government's resolution and the case back to a re-determination, after which the government's Board of Appeal adopted its appeal on 13 November 2017 and annulled the IDP's pension solution and issued an order for the IDP to act under the ruling of the Administrative Court and a resolution of the government's appeal commission. However, the police director did not act accordingly, but brought a new pension solution on December 1st 2017, and Nebojsa Blatic was not returned to work. The question arises how is it possible for the Director of Police to ignore the ruling of the Administrative Court and the order of the Board of Appeal? We have been asking a question to the president of the Republic of Serbia that we haven't received an answer for two months. In 2002, did Zoran Korać recruit you to work for the U.S. Intelligence Service? Has the same man become your adviser to the Serbian government after you arrived at power in 2012? Do you know Sean Fitzpratnik, David Roseman and Bill Jameson who assigned you to Mickey Rakic to be your boss? Did you participate in the location of Ratko Mladic and have people who can help in the discovery of the hiding place of General Mladic been brought to your wine cellar in Jajinci? Why does The Hague tribunal demand the extradition of the Verse of Radeta and Peter Jojic, not you who were their head of the SRS legal team to defend Vojislav Seselj in The Hague? Did the DS fund you as the leader of the opposition SRS?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28799	Thanks, time's up. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28800	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have a few specific questions concerning, above all, the citizens of Serbia. Please, President, if I can get the gentlemen across the street not to. The first question is to ask the commander of the Emergency Staff, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. We see an emergency situation has been declared in three districts due to possible floods. In 2014, the Council adopted Serbia was one of the most endangered countries, also since the floods, and I hope that will never happen to us again. Over 1,000 km of roads have been destroyed, over 80,000 ha of farmland has also been destroyed. My question is what is Serbia that has the same government since 2014. Since 2012 for the four years it has done so to ensure that citizens of Serbia can ensure that local self-government does not happen to us anymore? We heard about the announcements about what might happen to us. I hope that this will not happen, that Serbia will not pass through 2014 again, and is it possible that in four years this government has failed to do anything to protect Serbia's citizens from the floods? We didn't do anything to prevent it. As for the treatment process, I hope that this will not happen and that the floods will not happen to us as in 2014. I also care about Smederjevska Palanka, where we started to resuscitate and regulate the rivers Jasenica and Kubruznica in 2015 and 2016. In 2014, in Smederjevska Palanca, we had 8,000 ha of flooded farmland, 1,000 households were destroyed and we invested over 300,000 euros to repair the effects of the flood. Today, as far as we can tell, of the 12 pump stations that protect the Smederjevska Palanca, nine pump stations do not work today to protect the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka from the floods. I ask the question of what Serbia has done as a country in the last four years to prevent something from happening to us again in 2014. I hope that doesn't happen to us, because we see that we're waiting for it to be completely unprepared. Second question, Mr President, please give me the answer I asked three months ago, I don't know for what reason. We haven't had the Assembly meetings, probably because it bothers the ruling majority to achieve a certain election result, but we haven't been in session for three months, we haven't worked for three months, not our fault, when I'm going to get a question about privatisation i.e. The "Gosa" rail vehicles factory has been bankrupted, 300 families in Smederjevska Palanca have been left without a job. Three hundred families were left unaccompanied, 300 families were left at the mercy of the arrogant and unprofessional management of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, then the Government. What's gonna happen to these people? What does it have to do with privatising "Gosse" Shinska vehicles, the brother of Prime Minister Ana Brbanic? The third question I ask Minister Branko Ruzic, do we perhaps have a new distribution and a new electoral system? I ask the question of what is the president of the municipality of Panchevo, what is the president of the municipality of Alibunar, what is the president of the municipality of Kovin, what does the president of the municipality of Opovo do every day in Smederjevska Palanca? Did Smederovska Palanka not get five or six presidents who are the presidents of the municipality of Pancheva, Alibunar, Opovo and Kovacica? What do they do every day at work with official cars, even with Serbian Telekom cars in Smederjevska Palanca? Are they perhaps, by some secret regulation, appointed by Minister Ruzic to handle, intimidate and intimidate the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka? The citizens of the Smederjev Palanca are proud, serious, working, hardworking people and will not allow anyone to influence them in this way. What Mr. Predrag Belic, president of the Alibunar municipality who was arrested, did in Smederjevska Palanca for a month and, behold, he was returned to be president of the municipality of Alibunar. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: You've lost now.) Just keep your mouth shut. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28801	Please, MP, you've finished asking questions, don't throw them away. Be kind, at least not at the beginning of the session. National MP LJupka Mihajlovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28802	Thank you. The first question is for the interior minister – how long has it been since the investigation into Oliver Ivanovic's murder, since it's been almost two months and the public has absolutely no information about it? The second question is for Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic – will he do anything about the formation of a commission that will examine everything about the plagiarized doctorate of Sinisha Maloj, still the current mayor, given that the ministry has intervened, in connection with the selection of rectors at the University of Kragujevac, has responded – will he do something about this? The next issue is for Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Zoran Djordjevic. Is it true that you tasked your assistant Biljana Barošević to press organizations dealing with improving the position of disabled people to collect safe or, as you call them, capital vote for SNS during the election campaign in Belgrade? So, according to the information that we have and received directly from some persons, these persons are being blackmailed by the Ministry of Labour on the maintenance of their regular annual programming activities if they do not survey their membership, they have found people who will vote for SNS, and in addition they have had to sign support for public figures who have given SNS support in elections in Belgrade and only persons with disabilities are signed as officials of these organisations, while everyone else is signed with their titles and their titles. The claim is also supported by the fact that this year's first competition for funding these programme activities was not announced at the end of last year in December to get financial funding from the organisation since January, but a contest is being called during the election campaign. Still no organization has received funding, I guess it's waiting to see what effect it's going to have. So does the Ministry of Labour have anything to do with this and what are you going to do about it? Also, the question for Minister Djordjevic is – how many people with disabilities were employed in 2017, what qualifications do these persons have and what jobs are employed in? Do they work on an open labour market or work mostly on some centres and mentioned organisations dealing with people with disabilities? What is the budget of the foam that employers, or the business sector pays for every unemployed person with disabilities, and on what is this money spent on? A question for the Minister of Health Zlatibor Lončar – whether it is foreseen during the construction and reconstruction of the University Children's Clinic in Tirshovo to provide a section for adult patients who are previously treated in Tirshovo, who are subjected to the most complex surgical interventions and who suffer from rare diseases, whom indeed no one but professional doctors who work in Tirshovo can help. This person is also treated after 18 years in Tirshovo, but it all depends on the good will of a doctor who is certainly not missing, but it is procedurally all very difficult to implement. My question once again is – will one department be taken care of for adult patients as well? In the end, the question again for Minister Djordjevic and National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic – is it true that one of the people who attacked the party stand Enough was enough of the Dvori in Batajnica Aleksandra Ljubojevic? Is she an employee of the National Assembly and is she a director of the Centre for Support to People's Trade, and the centre is located at the Ministry of Labour and Employment? So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28803	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28804	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an agreement was ratified in February 2016 in the National Assembly between the NATO Pact and the Republic of Serbia, so-called IPAP. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and NATO on co-operation in the field of logistics support provides for freedom of movement and diplomatic immunity to all NATO members in our country, as well as privileges that follow diplomats under the Vienna Convention. It allows them to exchange confidential information and equipment with our military, as well as wide-open the door for even stronger co-operation between Serbia and NATO, namely the Alliance's organisation for support and procurement of NSPs and the Agency for Support and Purchase of NSPs. Members of these NATO bodies and their vehicles have the right to the necessary free passage and access throughout Serbia, as well as entry into banned security zones is in line with our competent authorities. It is also stressed that NATO personnel, on their request, must be granted access to all state and private facilities in which they are being carried out, including those carrying out tests and trials. All personnel enjoy diplomatic immunity and are free from tax, customs, VAT, and can import equipment and contract the purchase of goods, services and construction works without any burden. There's no charge except for utility services. Serbia has also committed itself to an individual partner action plan to allow NATO soldiers free transit through Serbia, to use our military infrastructure and to be protected by special status as they reside in our territory. The IPAP, among other things, includes the signing of the SOFA agreement, which is also signed between the Republic of Serbia and the North Atlantic Pact, which regulates the crossing of the border and the level of immunity for Alliance members as they pass through or reside in Serbia, as well as access to military facilities. Serbia has also pledged to open a regional training centre "South" with Bujanovac to all member states of the partnership for peace and NATO, while gradually harmonizes its defence regulations with the EU and destroys surpluses of arms. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Prime Minister – what prevents the Government of the Republic of Serbia from granting diplomatic status to members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis? We submitted an initiative, the SRS collected 30,000 signatures from Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and handed over to the Regional Assembly to form such a centre in Novi Sad. We think that not only should diplomatic status be granted to members of the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, but first they should be shown gratitude for what they did in the Republic of Serbia especially during 2014 and the floods we had in Obrenovac, as well as during all those actions and participations in the ceasefire. The question is how many more victims would be in Obrenovac if we hadn't had that center on our territory. It is extremely hypocritical that this is promised in the media, that Russian diplomats are dragged by the sleeve only when something needs to be prevented in the UN Security Council without granting diplomatic status to Russians who are participating in the rescue of Serbian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I ask this question, since in October this same question is not answered. So does mentioning the Russian Federation and meetings with Russian diplomats serve only for the election campaign or are we seriously counting on their support and are we genuine friends with Russia and the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28805	The word is Joseph Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28806	I would have a question concerning the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At first, I would like to say that this issue is not for personal or family reasons, but for a large number of Serbian citizens to clear up some things. More and more missing items and the legacy of Joseph Broz Tito have been reported recently, the last pages of the book of mourning. I'm interested in what about the 3500 photo collection that stayed after 1980? What about stolen watches that were stolen from the show and one of those watches was sold as Philip Patek's most expensive watch at an auction in Geneva? That is the only thing the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the judiciary can ask for. What about the stolen medal from Ivanka's grave? What about the safe from Užička 15, because that safe that's open is the safe from the White Court? It's a shame that the safe is open without the presence of lawyers and family, and nowhere mentions the safe from Užička 15 which is his personal safe from the Little Red Salon. What about the collection of postage stamps, which was one of the most expensive marks in the world? What about the numismatic setting, same high value? Also, what about stolen weapons that went missing in the first period? I personally attended the first opening of the exhibition where I gave an official statement that it was missing, after which I was never invited to any opening of the exhibition again. The representatives of the Russian Federation were at my place looking for an explanation of what happened to the order of the Suvors and the saber of Stalin? I didn't know to answer that. What about the cars that are on regists to give the Republic of Slovenia, that's 12 escort cars and three car wars? What about small objects, family heirlooms, there are lists? What about the medal that belongs to the heirs by law? What about birthday presents? What about the museum exhibits that are slowly disappearing, and here we saw that two months ago even the guard stole the museum exhibits? A year ago, a silver tray, which is from a large, very valuable set, at a celebration of the Ministry of Defence, served to carry out a cake and disappeared. That's what the daily press published. When will everything be determined because there are lists from the first location of the museum? What about the items from the residence of Karajordjevo, Dobanovsky ban, Tara and other objects? What about the furniture from the residence, because a year ago I was offered a desk from his personal cabinet that somehow arrived in Montenegro? Also, I know that Persian carpets from the residence were drawn. What about taking care of the White Court and the exhibits that are in there? There's a broken regime complete that used to be and now it's all going down and gone? What about the secret, fourth list that's constantly being mentioned and which, unfortunately, is gone? Also, what about the pictures that were in the building of the CK that, when the renovation was done, were found in the garage and disappeared from the garage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28807	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28808	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to congratulate the parties of the former regime on an extremely good result, I expect them to declare victory. My question concerns the so-called. their winners. Is it true, and I'm asking the Ministry of Finance, or the Money Laundering Authority, as democratically as I am, I'm going to show it now. This knowledge came at the time of the election campaign, but I didn't want to use it and so someone came into a position to say I was doing it for election purposes. The following is the data, is it true that Alexander Sapic, at the end of November and in January of this year and at the end of November 2017, cashed in one of our banks and paid 685 000 euros, and then in January of this year another 115,000 euros? So, a total of 800,000 euros, saying it was his personal straw savings, and that he transferred that money abroad, i.e. to Italy, to the Bank of Inteza Saopalo. Is this information true, and if it is true to what purpose is Aleksandar Sapic, a well-known humanist, making that money? Also, my question concerns the loans he pulled for his foundation, private. Is it true that at the same time he spent his money in the White World Banks, he credited the domestic bank with a 400,000-euro foundation, which, of course, exposed himself to interest. It's not clear to me how on the one hand, a human man brings out his private money, and our donated money puts down a bank, or withdraws a loan? Did this withdrawn loan perhaps end up for humane purposes in the election campaign? The team before, that Aleksandar Sapic known as his personal friend and assistant, Dragan Gilas, the second so-called. The winner, in fact the loser, who, along with his coalition partners, got 12% less votes than they won in the presidential election. With regard to Sapic, how does he think he has the legitimacy he always challenges, when he lost in the New Belgrade elections, does he plan to resign? With regard to Šapić and Gilas, it is known that their treasures are incentivising, particularly Gilasovo, from the student age, when Dragan Djilas had one torn-up shoe, before he started with Slobodan Milosevic in 1999 and 2000, to trade for seconds in RTS, and before I suppose, they say from grandfathers from Bosnia and Herzegovina, he inherited a gold mine and from there encourages the wealth of Dragan Gilas, which is partly, along with Solak, who is a friend of the Soros Foundation, whom Soros sent here in 2001 to develop so-called. cable TV. So, their money, which allegedly encourages the outside, actually robbed money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by building various bridges that cost five times more than they cost the most expensive bridges in the world. With that in mind, I expect to be answered, did Dragan Djilas, together with Aleksandar Sapic, privatise a public area, street and transfer it to the benefit of Aleksandar Sapic? Did they do what my next colleague is likely to ask in Pioneer Park, if from there some object intended to privatise children for private purposes, for the personal gain of Dragan Djilas, who, right in Bosnia and Herzegovina, inherited his grandfather's gold mine and thus made himself rich during Slobodan Milosevic, and during Djindjic tried to blackmail the PKK, which is why Zoran Djindjic himself filed a criminal charges against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28809	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28810	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the parliamentary issue, I would like to say that unlike one of the fellow Members who spoke today, Gilas' representatives here, I know the procedure and I know that the objections about the work of the election committees are attached to the record of the election committees and not here, three days after the election in front of the television screens. So I'm not gonna talk about it. I just want to congratulate certain representatives of the political parties here, which they have once again managed to beat the invalid ballots. This is their second time. I congratulate them on that although the result was narrow, the fight was fierce, but they managed to beat the invalid Ladies and gentlemen ballots, my questions were addressed to the Ministry of Finance, but also to the Ministry of the Interior. It is, in fact, several of the affairs that have been plagued by the public of Serbia, which has been written by the print media in recent weeks, in recent months, so that both "News" and "Alo" and "Informer", the mah-printed media have dealt with the topic, and what we have never received an answer on. There are two well-known tycoons, you guess, one is Dragan Gilas, he is synonym for tycoons in Serbia and the other is Solak, the owner of SBB, cable TV. So, two tycoons and their financial transactions. So, as the media writes, Solak bought a building in New Belgrade in the Antifascist Fight Street, owned by Dragan Gilas, which included the headquarters of his company, "Darek Media", although they tried to hide that Solak is a real buyer, because the transaction was made through who knows what companies and who knows what companies, but all traces show that Šolak is really a real buyer, and it's particularly problematic that Solak placed the building there and before he bought it himself at the bank, based on which he obtained credit, which he then paid Dragan Gilas for the building. This is where the question is raised – how did he even manage to get the credit, given all of the above? Another of my questions is that – are they fictitious transactions, is it a fictitious sale, since the headquarters of Gilas's Darek Media company is still registered at that address, i.e. it is still in that building? It's especially a symptomatic price. The price of this building, i.e. the amount paid for buying it. So, according to an estimate of the tax administration, but also independent experts, it is quite clear that the building has been overpaid, that Solak has overpaid the real value of the building, paying 4.4m euros just for the first war in the name of buying the building. Where's the logic? Where's the financial logic, where's the business logic, that someone buys something much more than it's really worth? I know Kenna likes to buy things, 1500-euro shoes, which are really worth 50 euros, but we're not all Kena, we don't all have money like Ken. So, where's the logic? It is quite clear here that the tycoon money, the tycoon money, is invested in the campaign of Dragan Gilas, and given the timing of these dubious transactions, everything points to it. So, if the tycoons had raised the money, provided a way, they'd have found some moduso to transfer the money to Gilas' account, so that Gilas could run the campaign afterwards. Fortunately, they didn't get away with it. The Belgrade citizens said on Sunday what they thought about it. Belgrade's citizens sent a very clear message on Sunday that they would not return to the old one, that they would not allow the tycoon authorities, that they would not allow those in charge of Belgrade would not return, that they would not allow those who had devastated to return to Belgrade's budget for years, that those who had only been able to do so would not return, and now we have proved it, only that they were able to come up with some suspicious combinations, that they would not tycoon for Belgrade mayor. I thank the citizens of Belgrade and congratulate them on their very responsible decision Sunday, because they supported the list "Alexander Vukic - Because we love Belgrade". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28811	I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Djordje Vukadinovic and Momo Colakovic. You have received the resignation of MP Vesna Rakonjac as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of examining this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, establish the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time to which the MP Vesna Rakonjac was elected on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. I also inform you that we will agree to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, working today and after 6:00 p.m. because of the need for the National Assembly today to establish the agenda. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Logs of the Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Sessions of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were delivered to you in 2017 and the minutes of the 14th. Special sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 24, 25, 26 and 31 October and 1, 2, 3 and 8 November 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 37 MPs for – 139. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. I am voting on the 14th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session held on 20 November 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 14th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 14, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 22 November 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 23 and 24 November 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. I put to the vote The minutes of the fifth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 and 14 December 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 39 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, the National Assembly should decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, and on a proposal to supplement the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Greece on mutual recognition of driving licences be put on the agenda. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 41 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on the production and transport of arms and military equipment be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting the motion to put the draft amending and supplementing law on the Serbian Army, proposed by the government, on the urgent procedure. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the Government's proposal on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, of amending and supplementing the Defence Act. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the government's proposal on the agenda of the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KWF Frankfurt in May, following the responsibility of the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade, Project of Renewable Energy Kostolac - a wind farm. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the Government's proposal on the agenda of the draft law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty – Project of Technical Passenger Station (TPS) Zemun – Phase 1, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the Government's proposal on the agenda, following an urgent procedure, of amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of freight in road transport. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The state's major prosecutor has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of the deputy public prosecutor, and I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 143 MPs, against – one, with abstention – two. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the High Council of Justice to put the draft decision on the election of the President of the Court, which was submitted on 21 December last year, on the urgent procedure. I conclude the vote: for – 141, v – one, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Novi Pazar, which was proposed to the Assembly on 5 December 2017. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I am voting on the proposal by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to put the urgent procedure on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac, which also submitted on 5 December last year. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, which proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Board of Governors of the NBS, which they proposed on 12 December 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision to elect the Director of the Supervisory Board for Financial Institutions, which they proposed on 12 December 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of a member of the Securities Commission, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 December 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Ana Stevanovic suggested that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2017, should be put on the agenda. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put a vote on a proposal by a group of 43 MPs to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the Study Committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a dramatic increase in violence against Serbs and non-Albanian populations in the northern AP Kosovo and Metohija from 2013 to today, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 December 2017. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for ten against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the draft Parliament of the People's Parliament, Maja Vidinovic, on the agenda of the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from the People's Parliament, Maja Vidinovic, to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the Study Committee to identify all relevant facts and circumstances that preceded and lead to a decision on the extradition of a Turkish citizen of Kurdish origin, Djeved Ajaza Turkey, as well as the determination of the responsibility of all the authorities in this case. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic on the agenda of the Rehabilitation Act. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no two, two, two, abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliament of the People's Parliament, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, to put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances and to consider the situation currently in which the "Belgrade on Water" Project is located. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. We move on to proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28812	You can just tell me again, please, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28813	About the defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28814	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law, such as the defence system is an extremely important system for the functioning of the entire state and for the whole country. I must say immediately that I do not expect the ruling majority to accept these amendments and additions to the Defence Act, because I see the relationship of the ruling majority to the defense system when deserter Alexander Vulin is appointed Secretary of Defense. It's a relationship to all soldiers and people who deal with the system of defense in general. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1) and points 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for Serbia to regulate and ensure the defence and security of all its citizens, regardless of religious, national and political membership. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the main reasons is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security assessments and situations in both the region and the whole world. It is essential, first of all, to establish a fund of the Defence Act with the Emergency Law. It's not natural and it's not good for the whole country that we don't have a compatible Emergency Law with the Defense Act. I hope that at least these changes and additions will be accepted, because it is not a matter of political belonging, it is not a matter of political attitude. This is a matter that is good for the entire security system and for the whole country. We have submitted proposals to amend eight members of the Defense Act. I thank the serious people, General Radojcic and General Malinovic and other people who have worked on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. I don't really know what's controversial about the amendments and additions to the Defense Act? If the issue is that we suggested it, here, we will withdraw it, so suggest it to you. But this really is an extremely important law and very important changes and additions to the entire defense system. What is disputed in Article 1 where basic documents are said to be the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Army doctrine and documents in the field of non-war exports, risks and threats? I don't really know what's going on in all these eight members. I'm asking someone who is seriously involved in this area to look at these amendments and supplement laws and put them on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28815	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28816	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is one of the many laws that we as a Parliament club and a parliamentary group are proposing. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We are now proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government so that things that have been happening to us for six years. Things happen to us that the president of the municipality of Alibunar, who was arrested, which was in prison by 20 January 2018, is automatically returned to the post of president of the municipality by the Serbian Progressive Party's decision. Things happen to us that as capital projects in Serbia, walking paths are opened, traffic lights open, taps open at the market. Of course it's capital projects because the SNS has been taking away huge funds for all local self-government over the last six years. The president of the municipality can only be one who takes an opinion in the Serbian Progressive Party. You have left no independence in the work of any president of the municipality, so the Democratic Party proposes that these amendments and amendments to the law be extended to local self-government by five billion dinars and that MPs be directly elected. I would like to see this MP from Cacca, Užica, Kralje, Surdulica, Subotica who would not vote for such a law, so his citizens would ask him – sorry, and why didn't you vote that we get an increase in funds so that we could decide for ourselves whether to deal with municipal infrastructure, are we going to do roads in that and that local community, are we going to do a sewer or a plumbing network? In the European Union, of course, this is very different and Serbia ratified the European Charter in 2007, which guarantees political, administrative and financial independence to all local governments. Now the local self-governments of the Bačka County, the Danube District are guaranteed by Branko Malovic, a senior from the Serbian Progressive Party, who has harassed all citizens, who even harassed the president of Vršac municipality, regardless of what she is from the Serbian Progressive Party, we also condemned it. In the European Union, half of the budget revenues go to municipalities, while in Serbia the percentage is only 9.6%. In the European Union, the president of the municipality decides because he has received a mandate from citizens, how will he manage local self-government and what capital projects will he implement, and in the Serbian Progressive Party, Branko Malovic, who is in Smederjevska Palanca every day, and I ask here a question – that we may not have changed the Law on Local Self-Government? What the president of the Alibunar municipality, who was arrested, is looking for every day at the Smederjev Palace, is that perhaps a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28817	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. The word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28818	This may be the most important, i.e. The most important changes and additions to the law, respected citizens, because we can, but very hard, live without roads, infrastructure, but without three meals a day no one can survive. A large number are, above all, citizens who cannot put an end to the end, a large number of citizens who cannot provide their children with lunch for school, while on the other hand, we have one small municipality of Sevojno. In Sevojn in one day, of course, a few days before the elections, 300 people received social aid. All 300 are members of the SNS. They had one obligation - to vote for the SNS. Is it normal and is it natural in 2018? We see, as soon as you laugh at it, it's normal for you. Why didn't you give social aid to people who really need it, who can't provide their children with no escorts, who can't provide their children with lunch? We propose three concrete measures, which is that all students whose parents do not work provide free textbooks, provide free transportation from house to school and provide free lunch for all students whose parents work with free lunches. Fifty thousand children, which are covered by primary and secondary education, are hungry every day. I know it doesn't mean anything to you, that you've filled your wallets with this bad government for the last six years, but that's not the kind of Serbia we want, that's not the kind of Serbia we're supposed to admire. Unfortunately, we also have an example of a boy from Moll who left the third grade of high school in Vienna because he had no money for a ticket from home to school. Therefore, we suggest that all students whose parents do not work be provided free of charge from home to school, free lunches and free textbooks. In 2015, the total share of children in Serbia's total population is only 17.3% and that's what needs to worry us, because it makes us a nation that has no perspective and makes us an extremely old nation. That's why we suggest that the ministry finance free out-of-body fertilization, which we also funded by a decision of local self-government, until those who have done nothing for Smederjevska Palanka came to power for two years. We had free out-of-body fertilization for all young couples who couldn't for health reasons come true as parents. Serbia, unfortunately, is at risk of being a leader of poverty in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28819	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Police Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28820	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are talking about a population who, every day doing their job, is risking their lives to preserve our country, our border, and ourselves. We see that you and these points of the agenda now, by submitting over 300 amendments, will prevent us from discussing the proposed points that are related to the police and that is simply not good, because of every topic that is important to citizens, from every topic in which you do some suspicious things, you simply run away from these things, which you tolerate as the ruling majority of over 300 amendments. Well, why didn't you just tell your ministers to propose a little better laws? The state of police is as bad as the military. The state of police is so bad that the ruling majority punished them primarily by cutting wages, and then the ruling majority punished them by reducing their daily living. A journal for those who do the most responsible, the most serious jobs and protect our border and our security is 150 dinars. For those 150 dinar cops, a member of the M.O.P. can get himself a muffin and a yogurt. Can he do his job with one muffin and one yogurt? Two key points of change are the addition of the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system, which is the number of students who finishes the Police Academy, how many students can be admitted to permanent employment in law enforcement or in the MUP. It is not natural that the most educated, most professional, most sacrificed, those who finish the Police Academy do not have permanent employment, are not admitted to the MUP, but that the order is being seduced there, deals with the Ministry, determines the direction in which our security, some Dijana Hrkalović, who did not even pass the Police Academy, while young, professional and educated staff who finish the Police Academy cannot be employed in ministries. The second point is that the provision of Article 172(2) of the Police Act breaks down the presummation of innocence, and we propose to delete it. I really ask you to look at Article 172(2) of the Police Act, and if I tell you, it bothers me that I propose this law or one of us, you suggest it, we will vote for it, because these are the things that concern our country's security and are very serious things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28821	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – 1 abstention – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the Military Security Agency, which, without a court decision, has been spying on political parties, union leaders and individual judges. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy to the "Gosa" rail vehicle factory from Smederjevska Palanka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28822	Thank you, President. I thought you were gonna take away my word, not let me speak, but fine. Smederovska Palanka is a municipality that has 60,000 inhabitants. It's a very difficult blow for that community, for all citizens, of course, for the economy, for the municipality in general, when 350 workers are out of work. It's 350 families left without existence, 350 families don't know how to pay electricity bills tomorrow, 350 families who don't know how to pay taxes, 350 families who don't know how to give their kids lunch money. I've been saying here for four months that you will, i.e. The municipal government in Smederjevska Palanca, along with you to shut down the Shining Vehicles factory “Gosha” after 70 years. Did you do it for the reason that the prime minister's brother has made peace with his partners, I really don't understand, and I don't care, as I don't care about the hardworking, serious and responsible workers in Gosa. Today, when Gosa is shut down, businesses in Slovakia and Spain are given jobs. Much respect for both these workers and the citizens of Slovakia and Spain, but these people have been coming to Smederjevska Palanka for years to train them to do the job, how to build a car, how to build a bridge. The Gosa factory is the pride not only of Serbia, but of all Yugoslavia in the past, and you have allowed Gosa factory to shut down, and not of you, but the prime minister's brother had a direct part in it. I asked three months ago what does Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's brother have to do with the company "Capitol Consalting", which has left 300 families in Smederjevska Palanca both without work and without basic existential stuff? I have not yet received an answer, although by law and by the Rules of Procedure I should receive that answer within 15 days. Of course you were ahead of the Presidential elections in Smederjevska Palanca and told the choir workers – we will solve the problem with "Gosa" so that these workers will vote for you. After that, no one from the government called them. After that, no one in the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka received them. I gave social aid of 10,000 dinars to certain workers, while I was at the head of the municipality, so they could feed their families because they didn't receive salaries for three years. The current leadership has done nothing with either Gossa, or other companies, or municipal infrastructure, or water, or road infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28823	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28824	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it was almost touching for me to listen to the previous speaker and his concern for the social rights of ordinary residents, an ordinary citizen. There's always a plan. He obviously had a good plan. I've proposed a law on... He's getting up now. So he planned carefully, owed Smederjevska Palanka 4,000,000,000, which is 4.5 total budgets. In one evening, he drank 343 beers, and that's why he was nicknamed Heineken. Those 343 beers at the Atrium cafe cost 459.110 dinars. He was talking about honesty to Heineken. These are three criminal charges that are being conducted against Milojičić in the Higher Prosecution Office, whom the people of mercy called Heineken managed to drink 343 beers for the evening, and the beer was expensive, and I drank it, and I bought it. So it's about the person who made the contracts at age 25 and 50. For the swimming pool, the city contract was concluded with Serbia's Simonovic, called Serbia's Sisavac, the first Isisovac in Serbia, because he was sucking money out of Smederjevska Palanka's budget, and so only in Inteza Bank came to collect 290,000,000 from the 4,000,000,000 they totaled with Smederjevska Palanka. At age 50, a man contracted 2,000 euros a year. There's another document from the Indji Municipality. We issue land for ice cream in a year, we issue an ice cream trip for 5,000 euros, and he issues an entire pool at an annual level of 2,000 euros per 50 years, on the other hand, unauthorized, issued hot water. So he gave his friends hot water. Low construction, destroyed the CAP and concluded a 25-year contract. The football club "Glibovac" 14.918.000 dinars. It's his hometown. Footballers received 4,000 euros, as if they were playing in Manchester. It's the best one ever. The Charplaninac Association received two million and six...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28825	I thank you, MP. I'm voting on a proposal from the MPs. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28826	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, have been 12 years. The Constitution states that the powers of the AP Vojvodina and the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina will also be governed by a special law, and in the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for the adoption of the way in which AP Vojvodina's powers will be financed has been set up and that deadline has expired before, I think, 10 years or more. Let me tell you right now, I don't think there's any excuse for this law not being passed so far. Each government of the Republic of Serbia, one government carrying the responsibility of the DS and four or five governments carrying the responsibility of the SNS, promised the citizens of Vojvodina to resolve the issue, pledged to regulate the way the AP Vojvodina's powers are financed. There is almost no government, except for, I think, past and pre-experienced, which did not form working groups to deal with the issue. This law is not important because of the Provincial Government, this law is not important because of the party sitting in Banovina and running the District Government. This law is important for the citizens of Vojvodina. This law is important because they know how much money their administration has, not that we go into a crisis every year and we argue here whether 7%, which are drawn by the Constitution, otherwise embarrassing 7%, while we're at it, is that 7% of the income, 7% of the expenditure, 7% of the tax revenue, like this or like that. That money guarantees the citizens of Vojvodina a better life. From that money, subsidies are given to farmers in Vojvodina. That money helps families. That money is funded by social contributions to the people of Vojvodina. This money is funded by homes for young couples who go to live in the country. It is not fair that the Republic of Serbia does not want to adopt such a law for 10 years and that the AP Vojvodina, which contributes most to the Republic of Serbia's budget, must look into the sky and wait for how much someone in Belgrade will have the mercy to pay it back. No one needs to give the Duke anything, he just needs to stop taking it, and this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28827	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I'm realizing it wasn't accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov proposes to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28828	Thank you, President. I thank my colleagues for this broad support for Vojvodina's autonomy, of course, as always at an envious level. The law on textbooks is one of a set of educational laws that we, from the DS, propose, is one of the laws that has not yet been adopted in the comprehensive reform announced by Minister Sarcevic. We can say, fortunately, it hasn't been adopted yet because... The only thing that Minister Sarcevic has achieved in education is that everyone in this country, who deals with education, is united about one thing, which is that they ask him to withdraw all the laws in the area of education that this Assembly has adopted. It's not just the Law on textbooks, there's the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Fundamental Education, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Secondary Education, the Law on Dual Education, and that's why everyone in this country is now asking for all these laws to be withdrawn. The essence is very simple. The point is that Minister Sarcevic personally wants to control all education processes in this country. Of course, he doesn't care about the quality of education. He is only interested in controlling education, in controlling finance, in controlling staff, in controlling the accreditation of educational institutions, in controlling progress in education, and from what we have so far had the opportunity to see when the Law on textbooks comes as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I expect it to say in this law that Minister Šercevic himself writes all the textbooks from which our children learn. I have reason to think about it because all the laws that have been adopted so far come down to that. According to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Minister Sarčević approves the textbook plan, he chooses commissions that approve textbooks, he takes care of the quality of textbooks, he takes care of what he writes, and the result is that our textbooks are increasingly expensive, increasingly difficult, increasingly unquality and have more and more incorrect information in them. That kind of thing shouldn't happen. The proposal we made on the Bookbooks Act can be the starting point we're going to talk about, but let's not let one man determine everything because, as we've seen, it's not going very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28829	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? Here's my colleague Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28830	Thank you. Yesterday was March 5th, co-workers and colleagues. On March 5th 2013, therefore five years ago, the Council of Europe adopted the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to solve the problem of missing babies in the next year, to pass a law to address the problem. After five years of this verdict, the only thing I have to tell you is shame on you. Shame on you, colleagues and colleagues, which for five years Serbia has been unable to pass a law that will solve missing babies' problems. You're ashamed of anything you don't want to meet your parents to hear a little bit of what they have to say, that you won't sit down with them and see what it's like when they have to report that their kids died and they know they didn't die, when their dead kid gets a call for vaccination, a call for school. You are ashamed of anything you do not want to see with them, that you will not adopt a single amendment to the Criminal Code which we will only say that a crime – stealing a baby does not go out of date. I really don't know how you can talk about this law being passed anymore. I really don't know what the problem is that you don't want to do it. They're not political people. These are the people who came to all of us. There is a memo in each of your MPs' groups that they sent. They don't care which one of us is in which party. And when we're talking about this, it's supposed to be a big deal who's in what party. All we have to do is take care of these people to keep at least a little dignity, at least a little chance of justice, because in most cases when you ask them what the problem was, they say that when they realized that something was wrong, when the initial shock of being told that their healthy child had died and they wanted to file a criminal report that it was already too late. So do not deny them the right to come to justice and to the truth about what happened to their child. Five years have passed since 5 March 2013, when the Council of Europe adopted this commitment to Serbia. You pass the law, let one of you be the promoter, it's absolutely no problem at all. We will not participate in the discussion when the law is, just please, let us adopt, don't let us further humiliate them on everything they've been through ever since. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28831	I'm putting the motion to a vote. It concludes the vote and I declare that there was no vote of 147 MPs for – 22, against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28832	My colleagues and colleagues, by this law that we have proposed, we are actually proposing that an injustice be corrected that was brought to the parish by the Law on Agricultural Land adopted at the time of the last government of Alexander Vukic. It was adopted by the same majority who today make up the majority in the National Assembly. Namely, this proposal, the law adopted in this Assembly by the elected tycoons and individual SNS business partners, allows them to reach the best agricultural land in state ownership without a tender, without competition, without public competition, without any criteria. This is, of course, the problem most affected by the AP Vojvodina, since it contains the most agricultural land owned by the state, and since what is happening in the local congregations of cities and municipalities in the AP Vojvodina, we see that your tycoons, your business partners and your committees and how they use these legal provisions, so even some of the committees selected from the SNS list for companies established overnight give the best agricultural land in many municipalities in Vojvodina. The problem with your law is that from the farming of state-owned land, there are tens of thousands of families living in Vojvodina. Ten thousand of them live exclusively from the land, agricultural land in state property, and you have made them live by the law that you have adopted in this assembly, or to be an overachiever on agricultural land that you have donated to your tycoons, or to completely abandon agriculture, to stop doing so and to work in one of your factories, for ten hours to stand behind the ribbon in diapers. The problem is that this agricultural land that you give to your committees and your tycoons is not yours, and when you find out it's not yours, because the Duke's pairs of swamps were taken away from them without you sharing it with your sheiks, your tycoons, your councilmen, will return to them at that time. All these contracts that you have unlawfully concluded with them will be broken, and no one from the duke's land has driven anyone away from the Duke, neither will the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28833	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 18, against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 146 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Is the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28834	Thank you, Vice President Marinkovic, if you tell me I'm an MP, then I may as well tell you that you are vice president. The Law on Higher Education is one of the worse laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this Assembly, and the assembly majority adopted. I don't know if fellow MPs and MPs know, but the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, which you are so pleased to call upon when you talk about not using natively sensitized language, maliciously interpreting one of the opinions she gave on the subject, also asked Mladen Sarčević and later this Assembly to put aside the Law on Higher Education adopted here. The point is that obviously the only intention of the minister when he proposed the Law on Higher Education was to put under control, under one, finance in higher education, under two career advancements in higher education, and some colleagues here had hidden intentions, so they had before the debate the amendments which under the direct control of the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia were put in place and the procedure of accreditation of the University. This last moment, that the executive government is fully controlling the process of accreditation of higher education institutions and teaching programs, was the reason why more than three hundred professors, three hundred scientific workers, researchers, academics, all those who are involved in science in this country said that this law is not right. That's what we say, the government can't accredit higher education institutions, it's got to do independent bodies, it's got to be done by experts, and the government can't do that because a large number of people in the government just got a degree from those higher education institutions that had a problem with accreditation. Don't let us ignore these problems, don't let us ignore what people who do science ask of us demand of us. We have proposed a law that would allow our higher education to be in line with what standards are in the developed world, but you seem to agree with the law in which high education is controlled by the minister, from private, perfided and, I think, beneficial interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28835	Thank you. And let me just answer, so I only rule in accordance with 100. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I will continue to refer to you as a Parliament of People. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: The apostle is by the Constitution. An apostle by the Constitution? That's how, according to the Constitution, a member of 100th and beyond and all members treat it that way. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12 MPs, it did not vote – 147 MPs, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Bills and amendments and amendments to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 November 2017. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28836	Vice President, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System has set up a system in which the minister controls everything. The minister is competent to personally appoint and resolve primary and secondary school directors, the minister personally makes plans and textbooks' programme, the minister personally controls the quality of the textbooks, the minister personally takes care of the criteria for grading students, the minister personally decides on who will be members of the National Educational Council, the minister personally decides on which school will have the status of the viewing school, the minister personally decides on a number of things, school plans and programmes, on the criteria under which teachers, according to which the teaching takes place, the minister personally appoints directors of institutions, etc. Well, you know what, if Mr. Sarcevic himself Dositej Obradovic, he would have a lot of jurisdiction, a lot of power, and he couldn't achieve the quality of what Minister Sarcevic had given himself the task of doing. Of course, it is not intended for it to be more quality, it aims that each school director responds directly to the minister who has appointed him, if he can and can replace him, to control all those teachers who would eventually not be obedient, because just as the goal is to control all citizens who think differently, to humiliate, to hold on to blackmail, to scare, to conditions, etc., it is also the goal of Mr. Sarčević to work with the directors, to work with teachers, and it will only contribute to the further humiliation of our education system when it comes to pre-school, primary and secondary education, since these are the three types of education that this law deals with. I think it's clear to everyone that our children don't go to schools that look like school in 2018 is supposed to look like. Your mantra about our people being unemployed because they're not educated enough isn't true. This is one way to change these things. We ask you to talk about it, and if you do not, ask Sarčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28837	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16 MPs, it did not vote – 141, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28838	Thank you, Vice President. The Supreme Cassation Court, 9 May 2013, subject Ilija Devic against the town of Novi Sad and everything refers to the time in which the Mayor of Novi Sad was our president, and unfortunately our mayor Maja Gojković. On page 8 of the verdict, the defendant, therefore without any apparent interest, was promoted through the conclusions of his then mayor, so Maja Gojkovic, took the obligation to remove the inter-urban international traffic from the bus station in Bulevar Jasa Tomic's number 6 at the prosecutor's bus station. The litigator is in a dispute in the conflict, one of the litigators is our president, and then they knew they were negotiating something that they were allowed to do, so our president knew he was agreeing on something that was illegal, so that, later on at the 10th place, the conclusion of the Treaty with this common objective was against forced regulations, public order and good customs. Therefore, an illegal motive and a bad intention, contrary to good practices, has defined the parties to conclude the contract in question. And, the key line - there is no doubt that both parties knew that there was an illegal motive, they are guilty of both parties and their guilt is equal, it stems from common will, intent and objective of bargaining. Our president of the assembly, as mayor of Novi Sad, has damaged Novi Sad from the potential 100m euros. The Supreme Cassation Court found that she was guilty of the damage, that she knew she was contracting an illegal thing and that she was committed by bad motive and unlawful intent. A little trick for our president is that on page 13 of this verdict, it states, "Article 154(1) is quoted." The law on bond relations, which states: - who is causing damage, is obliged to make up for it unless it proves that the damage has been done without his guilt, and the damage in question has already been done by both parties. I expect Maja Gojkovic, to compensate the Novosadjans for the 100m euros in damages she has done to our city, if she wants to share these amounts with her accomplice in this business, but the Bond Relations Act is binding on her, since she knew she was doing an illicit thing, to make that damage up to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28839	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 16, it did not vote 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MPs Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2017. Do you have a national letter, Mr. President? Alexandra Jerkov wants a word? Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28840	Thank you, Vice President. By passing this law, we wanted to support those 300 professors, academics, researchers, scientific workers and those who were involved in the sciences that asked the National Assembly to do something like this. The Higher Education Act must cease to apply and must be amended. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a fascist leading the University of Kragujevac, a man who is known for his hate speech, for his boastful behavior, for the mistreatment of teachers, for the abuse of all those who oppose him, for the release of those who do not respond to him, for the nepotism, for the employment of their relatives, for the treatment of false Ph.D.s, which, however, is not very foreign to you. A man like that runs one of the biggest universities in the country. Our colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Education and Science, the Assembly Committee, have tabled amendments, allowing the minister himself to conduct the accreditation process and that the minister himself will have an impact on which university, which educational programme and which university will be given permission to work and to issue diplomas. Ladies and gentlemen, this condition is unsustainable. We have suggested that the Law on Higher Education, which we last adopted, cease to be valid, that things go back to the same and that, in agreement with the academic community, we make a new bill. A new bill that will be a fruit of agreement with those who work in higher education, with those who lead higher education rather than the Law on Higher Education which will be a fruit of blackmail or, I don't know what influences of individual MPs in this Assembly, who have misused the function they are in, to solve a single issue that is and when it comes to higher education, is of interest, which is the accreditation of the university. It can't be about higher education that decides who has a problem accrediting their own university. I can't decide about higher education by those who have questionable diplomas, those who have graduated, mastered colleges that have a problem with accreditation and fascists can run our universities. If that's acceptable to you, then don't vote for this proposal, and if you think it's okay to be held hostage by such people, to embarrass us and only to harm our higher education, then don't vote, let everything remain the same, and then your message is clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28841	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, it did not vote – 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel, concerning military, defence and defence industrial co-operation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on that farm land, I'm going to have a particularly usurped conversation under some other law. Now about working with Israel. Israel is a serious state, both in terms of military and education. They've almost brought education and army together. Each of them is educated to be a patriot, not to be a traitor. With them, it is not a condition for a young scientist to receive a scholarship only if he shakes hands with the prime minister. We had a prime minister there in Vojvodina who advertised abs like this, his name was Pajtic, I forgot. But I haven't forgotten his misdeeds. Marija Bivot, a French language professor, a scientist, says, the programme was called "right on the first chance". In Israel, this cannot happen, that shaking hands with Bojan Pajtic is a condition for obtaining that chance, or scholarship. That says who's fascist. Fascist is the one who insists that everyone has to shake his hand in order to exercise their right. It's very risky to shake hands with him. Personally, if you gave him a hand, after that handshake, I'd see if all my fingers were on my hand. Probably a young teacher not wanting to risk losing her fingers, because this one has to take something, refused to shake hands today, and today the representatives of Bojan Pajtic talk about education, about fascists. Let's move on. Israel is a strong country. We're military neutral. The ones before me who were talking were confused. They thought that when Serbia was militaryly neutralised, it was militaryly neutral. That's not true. There's a big difference between military neutrality and what you've been militaryly neutralising, selling tanks and cancer for $5,000. You sold tanks and armored transporters. That can't happen in Israel. This collaboration with them about military equipment, training, it's precious to our country. They're militaryly strong. They won't let anyone sell tanks for $5,000, build a building on the pasture, and probably pick up a pasture. That can't happen with them. We still need to cooperate with the Israelites. We need to learn how to be brave, but also to be wise. We've fought a lot for others, it's time to live for ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28843	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – seven, against – two, it did not vote 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. Does the MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28844	I have tabled two amendments to the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education. Now you've called me for middle education. This is an attempt to prevent peer violence that happens every day in our primary and secondary schools. What we are witnessing from day to day is that through television, through social networks, we see that a parent complains about the problem of his child being abused in elementary or high school. The idea is to stop violence in schools through a preventive work with peers. The idea and the proposal of this law is to introduce a practical educational class with a class elder, where you would consider a problem with children, where children would learn that in their class or in their generation there is a child who hears weaker, who wears a hearing aid, who is less visible, who can't follow the class well enough, that they should work together with him and not laugh at him at school. What we have to admit is that in some situations children are ruthless and that practically all of these spells begin by accident, without any greater cause, with some harmless insult, plotting, giving ugly names to a child, to ridicule and gossip, spreading lies, but there is also physical violence that is being taken, recorded with mobile phones, and then played through social networks. What's the idea, I repeat again, because I'm not going to report under the next bill, is to introduce, practically, the first hour of every month with a class elder, and in elementary schools with a teacher, where it would be discussed, where it would be said that a fellow should not be a target and that another must be divided and snack, that a child who follows a lower class, besides teachers or teachers, should have support and classmates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28845	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reasons for the huge losses suffered by the JP Elektroprivreda of Serbia, as well as the total amount of state aid granted to Serbia's Elektroprivred. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – the bill of termination of the Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reason for the huge losses incurred by "Er Serbia", a commitment that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etyhad have towards "Er Serbia", the total business loss from 2013 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to "Er Serbia" in the same period and the damage to the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with "Etihad" and the United Arab Emirates, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session agenda – a proposal for the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs on 13 April 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – the bill of termination of the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of pensions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine MPs, did not vote 152, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one MP, 159 MPs did not vote, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify the facts and circumstances that indicate the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vukić with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies "Alti/Vin Vin", "Prointer" and "Energosoft", which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three MPs, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport of passengers and cargo, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have waited carefully for Ambassador Sasa Radulovic to address us with his supplements. Apparently he left, so he forgot to come back. With the bill that I have proposed, which I do not insist on today on the agenda, I wanted to point out to the MPs to prepare for this law. I think co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina is valuable, especially in road traffic, roads, etc. I welcome the intention, Mr. Omerovic, to build highways that will go not only through Serbia, not only towards Sarajevo, but also to return via Bijeljina, back to the Republic of Serbia and thus to network not only the Republic of Serbia, but also the Federation, which I believe will be more and more favourable to us over time. The highways are necessary, and these unfortunate people before us didn't understand, not just for connecting people and passengers, workers working on both sides of the Drina, because they didn't care about workers – why the unemployed would take care of workers, about their rights, they fired 400,000 people, so they didn't need the transportation of workers. They didn't even need to transport goods, they only had imports. Even that transport was carried out by foreign vehicles. They borrowed money, sold our entire economy, and for that money, borrowed money, and bought foreign goods from the sale of the economy. They didn't even need to build highways, one of them built from field to field, that's their biggest success, and the bridge that he put together for 500 million two local communities in Belgrade. It was a great success in the joint criminal enterprise of the former regime's party and bankruptcy managers. That's why I'm sorry that that bankruptcy manager left and forgot to come back. He must be looking for his coalition partner who went on TV duel with him. The highways carry development. This government is doing it. He's building highways. Infrastructure is a prerequisite for foreign investment and domestic investment to raise the country's economic power, to raise it to processing, to production and gross domestic product, as you can see, grew by 4.2% last month. I believe that highways towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and passenger transport will contribute to the economic development of both the countries, the Republic of Serbia and to the dear Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28847	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for seven MPs, against one, there was no vote of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee in order to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by "Zelezar Smederevo" from 2014 to today, the total amount of State aid granted to "Smederevo" during the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Government in connection with the operation of "Zelezara", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs, 154 MPs did not vote, and I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine whether during the elections for MPs, held on 24 April 2016, elections were held, or whether votes that were won by opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties, were stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Unique Serbia - Dragan Markovic Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj - the Serbian Radical Party, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does Sasa Radulovic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - three MPs, 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to look into the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and to determine whether the election material contained anomalies and what they consisted of, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does Sasa Radulovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28848	I have concluded the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for three peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Saša Radulović suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the bankruptcy that is being conducted at the "Redar-topic base Bor", the reasons for the huge losses incurred by RTB Bor, the total amount of State aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of the plan for the reorganisation of RTB Bor. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I have concluded the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for four peoples. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by JP "Srbigas" as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to JP "Srbijagas" began since the establishment of the company in 2005. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the five Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts relating to irregularities in the voting circumstances that led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017, in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the origin of the money that Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin bought an apartment in Belgrade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on secondary education and education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion by the MP Sasa Radulovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of MP Sasa Radulovic to put a point on the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Preschool Education and Education. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Sasa Radulovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary establishment of a basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic and Saša Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Dusan Pavlovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on complementarity of the Law on the prevention of domestic violence. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Dusan Pavlovic to complete the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chambers of Commerce. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Dusan Pavlovic to complete the agenda of the session with the point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Dusan Pavlovic, Dr Ratko Jankova and Jasmina Nikolic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on trade and economic co-operation. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Trade Cooperation Agreement is very important to us. Thanks to the government's efforts, and I ask my fellow farmer to calm down, and I understand that he and Mrs. "winodelic" have the right to their grief over the lost choices, every trade agreement for us is very important. Foreign investors, except they bring money to this country, bring new markets, wherever they come from, where they place the goods. Thanks to this, we reversed a negative process that the former party regime, when it was in power in a criminal enterprise along with the bankruptcy managers had in practice and we turned that process around and our coverage of imports and exports increased from 50 percent to almost 80%. The remaining 20% make up for foreign investment, and in such a way, plus the Serbian diaspora that makes its immeasurable contribution, in such a way we have a six-year stability rate, the euro rate has increased all by one dinar or less than 1%. In their time, only three years from now, their government, the governments they led, and which was the government of universal destruction, the course grew by only three years by 50%. Today, those who have no programme have no idea how hard they're fighting foreign investment. Their last attempt and applause, unfortunately, and my fellow farmer in an attempt and those who were punished by the people, fiercely in the elections, when they applauded the fire on one of the foreign investments, which is being made in the Republic of Serbia. It's amazing to me that someone who wants to hire their people, and they don't seem to want it, because they've robbed him well, that he can't come back easily, for me the applause of those unfortunates was the highlight of the vermin and there's a saying that Socrates said "bitangs and cheaters will desire power and democracy will give it to them". Unfortunately, from 2000 to 2013, that's exactly what they ruled.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28850	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I have no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the protection of Serbs in the dispersion and the region. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process from the day of the presidential election to the day of publication of the provisional election results in the 99.9 polling stations. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the opening of the republic's elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28851	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll read it. So, since 14 November 2016, we have repeatedly proposed that a survey committee be formed to determine all irregularities during the 2016 elections. At the time, the SNS also made its proposal to form a survey board but did not vote for its own proposal or for our proposal. We have not given up on this, and it is very important, especially in today's time when the electoral processes in every sense have deteriorated on Serbian citizens, to return to that day, on that election night, when the Serbian Dvori Movement is accused of being pushed into this parliament. I think that the citizens of Serbia could really see the difference in the debates in this assembly of parliament compared to the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is now clear why the Dvori should not have entered this assembly and which required so much energy and effort on our part to prove our attempt to steal and yet come here to represent the citizens of Serbia and to tell the truth. For me as a woman, it is also particularly important to prove that there was no violence on that night and that I am not in a party where they are violent. This is a party that promotes family values and, I say, it would be very important for us to establish who is the only real bully in this country, and to finally get what belongs to them – a clean face and that Serbian citizens can once again come out and repeat that we are not violent, that we are congratulated representatives of family Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28852	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28853	So we have proposed a complete family declaration that contains everything that is necessary for the state to deal seriously with this issue. As a family movement that has come into politics because of this, it is logical that the Davers are the first to submit such a family declaration, but since other fellow politicians have long started to talk about the need to increase the birth rate, to prevent the depopulation, I sincerely hope that they will not be hypocrites and that they will accept my proposal that the family declaration be voted in this Assembly or that it is at least subject to debate. Currently in Serbia we have a fertility rate of 1.43%, and for free reproduction, a rate of 2.1% is needed. In the previous year, we had the least babies in the last hundred years, and that actually came from 2016, where we had the same devastating result. All of us in the Dwarves actually feel that our birth rate is the fact that we're practically disappearing our biggest problem. So if we don't put our family in the middle of all the other political events, everything else you do is completely ridiculous and pointless. Here, for example, the Demographic Council, which should speed up the birth rate in Serbia, is actually changing. His composition is changing from one government meeting to another, and we currently have a case for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to chair the Demographic Council in Serbia. When we add this to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who has so far failed to even agree with colleagues what the slogans are, because she has nothing else to offer families but slogans, then we really see how important it is to adopt a declaration of support for the family and finally take this country seriously to address this serious state issue, in fact the issues of survival of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28854	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marija Janjusevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28855	Thank you. We are witnesses that on the neck, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination was adopted on the nose, and I welcome such an attempt by the government, but it is, as other laws, passed by the EU order, brought into dissatisfaction with what is real life in Serbia. I've tried to suggest some corrections, repairs, let me say, this law, because it's possible that abuses can occur, and in what way, here, I'll say if I specify which sensitive groups this law applies to. These are: pregnant women, maternity parents, minors, persons with disabilities and others. I suggested that the word "and the other" be deleted or simply further defined, so that there would be no later abuse, that those who are actually not real should be introduced into sensitive groups. On the other hand, if prosecutors can decide on their own who has committed discrimination and who is not and determines the penalties, it will potentially endanger parents in Serbia, because they are already imposing a lot of content that many parents in Serbia disagree with. So we have great pressure from the EU to introduce their values into our textbooks and to promote homosexuality to underage children. I will make a very important difference for you here, to make a significant difference between EU values and European values. Dvori and how they support and maintain European values, but what the EU promotes as its values simply does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which parents have the right to raise their children in accordance with their own moral and religious principles and have the right to decide what content of textbooks, which are placed on their children. We with the current legislation and with ministers of this kind in the current government, who can decide the fate of each and every one of us, can only expect abuse and nothing more. This proposal is only one way to protect our children and enable parents to raise them in accordance with their own principles. I say it again, just like...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28856	It's been a while. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Radojicic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Radojicic, suggested that the agenda be completed with the dots – a proposal for a declaration of honour to the Serbian citizens not to the Serb nationality of those killed for the country. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the approval of the international convention on the control and management of ship's ballast waters and deposits from 2004. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28857	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ship's waters and deposits. It is very important to protect the environment to have this agreement. We in India know that best. We have a former regime on wells, on the waterway, of course my colleague, who is from India, who doesn't want to talk about it, because they're tightly connected to the party of the former regime, they've built us on a water catchment factory for the recycling of lead batteries, with a connected channel located above the water catchment area. They brought in all kinds of contaminants. They brought in "Energo Green" and promised 170,000 animal waste and deposits, but since this will not be slaughtered by the entire livestock fund, the damage claim to the Republic of Serbia, due to the party's misdemeanour of the former regime is 130m euros. There are various kinds of deposits, especially those that ride yachts, and I'll talk about that later, they should take care of it. There are electoral deposits. There are some who want a survey committee for 2016. Here, I also want a survey board to determine who's being pushed into the assembly. Now we're looking at an ambassador who couldn't help anymore. Now we see this phenomenon called "Rasulović del bosic company" that is struggling so hard to place itself in the second round from the deposit it received. Oh, it doesn't help Scott nano anymore, no doctors or weeds. One left, the other forgot to come back. We're listening to their representatives here today who've been rubbing microphones, breaking and people have severely punished them. Not someone who was a U.S.ID surveyor who got money from there to talk about family values, about how they were against the EU, the United States. Their hypocrisy was punished by the people in these elections, and the voice of the people is the voice of God. There is not a single opposition party here without having only a solicitation, not one opposition party that entered in 2016, no more censorship. The frogs are trying hard, maybe Sanda could explain it to them, for free they try to count the votes a thousand times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28858	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28859	I thank the president. For the third or fourth time, I am trying to point out the importance of adopting this declaration, adopted by 136 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. The territory of the 136 municipalities and towns in Serbia houses 224 MPs in this assembly of the National Assembly. So the question arises, given that at the previous session, I received only seven votes for the adoption of this declaration, who are we representing? Are we representing party leaders who claimed that the four were genetically modified tomatoes, or are we representing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the original base where we live, or what local self-government adopts on the territory where we live? I don't want to show you much, but it's enough to read just Professor Seralini's interview in "News" two days ago and to understand what the devastating consequences of GMO organisms are. Some are pushing for new polarisation in Serbia, for the import of GMOs, for the ban on cultivation of GMOs, not realizing that this is a foul game and that, practically, by allowing GMOs to import, they will get unfair competition from our farmers and food producers in Serbia, because they will have unfair competition from these products from abroad. Also, we are destroying our seed industry, our agriculture, which, by the way, is being told, and in this year, according to the Budget Law, 5.3 billion less than prescribed by the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28860	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic suggested that the daily sessions be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, in order to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the liquidation procedure "Such Insurance". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Capital. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28861	Thank you, President. Here, now that the Belgrade elections are over, when we have seen everything that happened in the capital in Sunday's elections, we suggest that you be truly and fairly and correctly, to put this bill on the agenda so that the Belgraders will choose their mayor directly in the future. We believe, as we thought then, it is very important that the citizens of Belgrade know who they are voting for, that the citizens of Belgrade know who they are who they vote for and who they are who they are guaranteed, whatever they guarantee their name and last name, that that programme and those promises that they offer in the elections will come true. I really think it's very important and important for citizens, first of all, to have the right to choose, not to be planted with false billboards, not to be planted with false names, fake ballerinas, fake investors, fake doctors, fake professors, but to really know who the man who's going to lead Belgrade in the next four years. Since the elections are over on Sunday, with a harsh violation of the electoral will of citizens, what you can do if you really think that today is the time, and I think that, here, it is, a few days will pass, you will, I suppose, form the city's power, but you can, as a general majority, adopt the Law on the capital, which speaks of Belgraders still having the right to vote for their mayor, not to vote for the president, not to vote for the prime minister, not to vote for some imaginary figures, but to vote for the man who will lead that city. Belgrade will again, Belgrade will again get a mayor for whom citizens have not voted in these elections. The Belgrade citizens will be reunited with one who has not received their trust. That's what's wrong with managing the capital. This is what Belgrade is constantly putting on the margins of world and European metropolis. You cannot in this way not allow citizens to have no rights and to humiliate them to choose who will govern them in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28862	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28863	I believe that every proposal we have put forward at the previous sessions was before the elections, either now or after the elections and local and parliamentary and presidential issues concerning people on very difficult tasks, a very difficult material situation, and they are concerned about the security of our country. We have talked about them a thousand times, about their difficult situation, and we will not stop talking about them, because we believe in them, we believe in their ability, we believe that it is important that their voice is heard in this House and we will never stop representing their interests. Those who are on the border today, those who are in the barracks, those today who represent an officer's staff, who represent soldiers, those today who worry about what Serbia will look like in the future, do not have enough material status to provide themselves with their family's basic needs. We therefore believe that their status must change, in order to be much more satisfied and so that their professional life and their professional activity can do much more effectively than they do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28864	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the fact of the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28865	Thank you. We proposed a survey committee for one of the most embarrassing things in the history of the city of Belgrade, which is the destruction of the district of Savamal in April 2016. Hercegovina was renovated several times after that, several times after that, was disintegrated, again unearthed to hide all the evidence that led to the night of her ballot count in April 2016, after the parliamentary elections, definitely gave the order to bring Samamal down and thus to start and turn a new leaf in the history of the city of Belgrade. What is not to like and what is an obstacle to investment urbanism in Belgrade, it will be brutally destroyed because it prevents the interest of business partners and tycoon in the city of Belgrade by authorities rather than what the citizens of Belgrade think and what it says in the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, one of the security guards in Savamallah tragically lost his life. To this day we don't know what he said at the police station, we don't know what he said, and under very strange circumstances he died on VMA. What happened was that he was brutally deprived of freedom, that he was tied up, that he had a lot of stress and that he finally got sick because of everything that was going on that night. It's very important that this case be investigated to the end. I am absolutely sure that one day in the city of Belgrade, we will have power in the Republic of Serbia, where the prosecution, where the independent judiciary will condemn those who did this, gave the warrant, destroyed, deprived citizens of their freedoms and prevented the police from reacting and protecting those who were threatened by the evening. I believe many will end up in custody and in prison. I know that after these elections it's not an obvious topic, because they've been bought for another four years, but believe me, when this thing comes to the agenda, and that many smiles today on your faces will disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28866	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28867	Thank you. From when we proposed this law until the moment you refused, as I assume you will do today, to put it on the agenda, more than eighty women were killed in domestic violence. What we're asking for by this bill and we're not going to give up on it is that you just put this law on the agenda so that the thugs in the family, who are registered as thugs, are invited to the police station and to take away their legally acquired weapons. We think it's very important because it's a way to prevent over 80 murders. From the moment we proposed this bill to this day, and what you're laughing and throwing at, you have to think about how the families of the murdered mothers, the wives feel, how those children and those people whose daughters have lost their lives in domestic violence. They no longer have anything to lose, they are people who are in complete despair, and the government, and the system is doing absolutely nothing to make a small prevention that this is no longer happening in the future. This is a bill of law. If you put it on the agenda, we're not going to explain it, we're just going to vote for it, because this is not a matter of politics and political attitude, this is a matter of normality, this is a matter of organized society that takes care of those over whom violence is committed. That's what application is on our side. We will never give up on this proposal and who knows how many more lives, and who knows how much more, unfortunately, a woman will lose her life just because you don't want to put this proposal on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28868	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on additions to the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28869	Thank you. This is more popular called youth employment law. It's the law we proposed because the best in Serbia are leaving. They leave every day. Every day, one who graduates from college, learns something that does not want to stay in Serbia, in Serbia where there is no rule of law, in Serbia where not the best are valued, in Serbia where you do not value the effect, in Serbia where there is no job for those who have learned, who are resourceful, who are talented, only for those who are party-like and those who will provide their family with their voice and voice in some subsequent elections. Such choices and such democracies you can have as much as you want, but you will be left without young people in Serbia, you will be left without the smartest ones, you will be left without those who will serve another country, who will use their energy in some Germany, in some Norway, in some Canada, which will never return to Serbia again because this country gives them no opportunity and gives them no option, no hope that life here is possible. Young people, high school students in Serbia, since high school, have been scholarshipd by many multinational companies, giving them scholarships to prestigious universities, and then hiring them in their companies and drag them away as a working force that is of quality, which knows that works, as a force that knows that thinks, which has the power to change, as citizens who will serve in another country, in another company abroad, not in Serbia and not in businesses that get here and do business. What is very important is that you adopt this bill to allow young people a little incentive, a kind of allowance that Serbia and the employer will pay together to a young man, a kind of incentive that will allow when they graduate from high school or college to be more competitive on the labour market, to have a mandatory practice that is paid, to really offer him some knowledge and some money, because it only depends on whether you bring Serbia closer to him not to be far enough away. Many who are born in Serbia are far away from them, very far away from them because only the government and only those where the parties in power are exclusively rich and use the privileges of the system, while young, smart people flee Serbia and leave forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28870	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the confirmation of the Annex number three Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this agreement is very important. However, I have carefully followed a previous speaker who, with his performance, is now destroying all attempts at investment, including these Chinese. He says we're uneducated, we bought diplomas. Let's let Balsha, Shule and the others bring their indexes. You know what happens if they don't even bring their indexes here? It's gonna be "The Index Theatre," it's gonna be funny. The people have not denied their trust for nothing. They're against Chinese investments. They're against us restoring all rails and roads, driving our workers, exporting our goods. They applaud every misfortune this country or people has experienced. If it's a flood, they applaud. If it's a fire, they applaud. If, God forbid, they kill someone, they applaud. There's nothing they haven't politically abused. The Democratic Party lost because it is no longer democratic. That's just her name. The Democratic Party, which I'm going to explain to Balshi, is only packaging, there's no content in it. There are some stale wastes that are not the Democratic Party, which have never been. All day he wanted Balsha to tear down the election to bring down such an investment. He was chasing a Bulgarian train around Belgrade. He did not find a Bulgarian train around Belgrade to tear down the Chinese railway they are building in Serbia. While he was chasing the Bulgarian train, the people broke them as the Bulgarian Assembly. They loaned it to Sashi Jankovic, before that to the Two, the Slovaks were called Chetniks and they expect these people to return. It's their fault. They have the right to their pain and grief. They can heal with whistles and a walk better than a walk. We'll tolerate it, but when they talk about workers, it kind of makes me sick. It's about workers and workers' rights that these Maldives are talking about. The nail in the wall didn't hit that at least we had something of our sweaty shirt to hang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28872	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – five, against – one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation of the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28873	Thank you. "Belgrade on Water" is, if at all there is more, since we last heard about it when the whole floor was set on fire, if there is still and if you haven't given up on it, then only that everything that's legally left to do, let's not embarrass ourselves like one country, because two buildings of 1,800,000 square feet, and two buildings are not finished in five years. Now, as some experts say, you have to take off a whole facade that's flammable, so all those who bought that apartment now can't move in because they don't know if they're gonna sleep while they're burning down the whole building and they're gonna risk their lives because they're installing a noose around their necks. It's this famous project that some of the world's experts that no one's ever heard of, some of the world's agencies and companies that they've designed, that you hide like a snake's feet. These are some famous buildings where some foreign great rich people, tycoons, investors, and of them we don't know who they are, or what they are, or if they really exist. All we know is that the Belgrade citizens lost more than 170 hectares of land in downtown Belgrade, that they paid someone these buildings that are self-inflammable, that the service that was needed for the adoption of the special purpose plan and agreed that as firemen do not give consent to such a project since they cannot say with certainty that it will be safe. For that there are, of course, documents and papers that say that no one wants to guarantee that this project, especially these buildings, from which the water continues to pump, which are worse, will be safe for the people who someday live, if there is any idea that someone lives there. For this reason, I think we should stop being ashamed of ourselves as a country and put an end to this robbery once and for all and for this fake contract and everything that has made Belgrade and Belgrade a big joke in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28874	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances of suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28875	Thank you. On the day when institutions in Serbia are independent, when institutions in Serbia, such as the prosecutor's office, do their job, this thing will certainly come on the agenda, which is the money laundering that even the SNS president said existed in the elections that were behind us, these are presidential elections. Until then, I'm absolutely sure these and things like this won't see the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28876	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors in order to determine the facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” of the Ministry of Interior. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities regarding the reshuffle of Slavi Square and the construction of a music fountain. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the fact that Serbia's Defence Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vulin, acquired a 107m-square-euro apartment in Belgrade, worth 244,620 euros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28877	Minister Alexander Vulin received some advice from his lawyer, saying that someone's aunt had loaned him enough to buy an apartment and that aunt was in Canada. What he got as a tip is to say the untrue thing that unfortunately cannot be checked, given that Serbian authorities, independent institutions, are not doing their job. Tax administration doesn't do its job. The prosecution doesn't do its job, and the laws of Canada are such that their citizens can't be subjected to any checks unless they're suspected of financing terrorism. What's the case with Alexander Vulin is that in one illegal way, the money he obviously didn't earn, which he got from someone, bought an apartment, not in front of Serbia's authorities, the tax administration and the prosecution absolutely had no consequences, and that's another situation and another thing that makes a jungle out of Serbia where everything is possible. It is possible to steal, it is possible that you do not report your property, it is possible that if you are a SNS minister that you simply do not comply with any laws, any restrictions. It's obvious only for citizens, poor women, for a middle-aged class who pays all of you to sit here, who let Alexander Vulin buy apartments from money he apparently got from some tycoon, from money that wasn't in legal flows and that wasn't earned in an honorable and fair way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28878	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors, in order to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the investment investment project in agriculture, between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested putting on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in Belgrade, in connection with the signing of the Treaty on the Construction of the Burnery in Vinca. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts regarding human organs trade in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, etc. "Yellow House". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28879	Thank you. I think there is evidence, if I am not mistaken, in the war crimes prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia, which is directed against Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj, who was backed by the Serbian Progressive Party list for the prime minister of Kosovo. There are accusations, there are facts, there are concrete evidence. And what does Serbia do with it and why does Serbia keep quiet? What happened and is someone protecting their coalition partner in Kosovo? Or don't you care who killed our citizens, who slaughtered non-Albanians during the war, who took their organs out and who traded their organs? You have pictures in front of the Serbian Parliament of those who have disappeared and those who have lost their lives, whose organs ended up in this "Yellow House" and somewhere in some black markets around the world, and the Republic of Serbia is doing nothing about it. You can frown, but your coalition partner Ramush Haradinaj, who has evidence in the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, has done so, and you do not allow it to be known, because that is how you protect and defend him. You should be ashamed of yourself. This is the treasonous government of the Republic of Serbia. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28880	MP, the election and election campaign have passed. refrain from qualifications and insults of such nature. You can't say that. You can't say about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is on election checks every few months, such qualifications. I won't let that happen. You have received the word to explain and convince the MPs to vote for your proposal, not to get up, lose your nerves because of the election results and start to insult you. That's out of the question. (Balsa Bozovic: Will you give me your word? If you can civilize the MPs to vote for the committee of inquiry, then yes, otherwise no.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28881	I do not want to convince or convince the ruling majority's MPs that a survey committee is needed to determine all the facts about all the people who disappeared in the "Yellow House", Serbian or other nationalities, during the war in Kosovo. I just want the government of the Republic of Serbia to convince the families of those people whose paintings are in front of the Assembly, on posters and posters, who have no monument in Serbia, but on those sheets and on those, not to say what things, hold their paintings and abuse, for the false patriotic policy of this ruling majority. If you do not want to protect your coalition partner Ramush Haradinaj, then vote this polling committee and see why the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is obviously hiding evidence that the non-Albanians, Serbs, were brutally murdered and their organs were removed in the "Yellow House".
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28882	Thank you. Time's up. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Otherwise, the proposal to supplement the agenda is just designed as an institute to convince MPs to vote, to put something on the agenda, not to give speeches like in Hyde Park. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the IMC Kruševa factory "14. October’. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of US and SR Germany's embassies, which were attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as the responsibility, both former and current holders of the highest state functions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the construction of a Chinese company's "Mei Ta" factory in Baric. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty on the Water Project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—10, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and Al Rawafed International Investment. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities and to untruely show the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn that caused great material and immaterial damage to the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of the role, the responsibility of the top authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihate Airways on the establishment of air traffic undertakings Er Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within Jelizara Smederevo in 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It concludes the vote: for – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, the circumstances of the existence of private listening centres in which state-level officials in the service of the highest officials in the Republic of Serbia are present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts, circumstances and manner in which the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad of 144m square meters, for which the company Telecom Serbia took over the remaining debt to mention a 77,000-euro apartment on 30 November 2012. The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28883	President, this is another proposal to form a polling committee because of the apparent corruption that is happening at the top of the government. It's the officials who are in these six, here we go, and in the seventh year of the government that only buys apartments, they live much better while pensioners are cut pensions, while educators are reduced salaries, absolutely no one is responding. It's the citizens who pay their squares. On the other hand, we have state-owned enterprises and state-owned companies that are costing their loans. We have a governor who obviously stops for the law and simply doesn't just take advantage of it in the last few years, but she has absolutely no intention of seeing all of her assets and the way she paid for it. How and why citizens pay these costs, these apartments, these towers and cities, it is absolutely impossible to find out while this authority is headed by Serbia and for this reason we believe that, after the descent of Alexander Vukic, each of these committees will be in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopted, we will discuss with the citizens and report very closely to the prosecution that will finally do their job. You can say that our bill, which concerns citizens, regarding honesty in Serbia, regarding normality and normal life in Serbia, is that they are the fruit of our kind of anxiety over the loss of Belgrade elections. Yes, we have lost the Belgrade elections, but we did not propose any of these proposals to win the election. We propose these proposals because we believe in them, because we believe that justice in Serbia no longer exists and that it must be re-launched. We may have fallen into these elections and will, of course, learn from them some of our lessons. In the end, you fall to learn to get up, but the belief that you are doing the right thing, the belief that you have to be persistent, and that you have to endure to end one task, is the belief that I am performing here, along with my colleagues in front of the DS, with colleagues in front of the SDS, the New Parties and many others who in these elections have protected the right of citizens not to steal their votes, the right of citizens to know what their money and their money are going to be, hard-earned, while many have taken advantage of these same citizens and received apparently, we see hundreds and hundreds of squares, and no one knows where they have money for such wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28884	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28885	Thank you. I am very proud to have proposed this law along with my colleagues, for the simple reason that it is again the fruit of a business variant of the Chamber of Commerce of Switzerland and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education. You cannot apply dual education in Serbia, in which citizens are increasingly poor, where investments are such as not to offer workers or basic human dignity. You can't introduce dual education in a country where there's still a very large number of illiterate ones, where you obviously place children on the children of the first and second order, on those who will obviously be sons and daughters of party officials, and then they will be able to get their education. On the other hand, you're pushing the children of those poor people, so that their potential and talents can never be used in this country. You'll make them cheap slave labor. They will roll cables for 150 or 200 euros. As the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will continue to promote Serbia at the BBC and SNN as a country of cheap labour. That's what's embarrassing, and that's what gives absolutely no future to this country, nor tells any young man that he should stay in this country, to start his family in it. For this reason, I believe that dual education is devastating, because you will abuse children who will work in a factory because of some practice, and they will not be paid, very likely and very likely for the most difficult jobs. For that reason, this is the first law in a group of others we have proposed and the entire opposition agrees on. The first law that will be abolished when we become the ruling majority and when we replace this devastating power of the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28886	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—15, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of MP Zdravko Stankovic to supplement the agenda of the session with a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Public Enterprises. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Goran Bogdanovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and the media. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Goran Bogdanovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Goran Bogdanovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Goran Bogdanovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - the bill on the establishment of taxes on undeclared citizens' income. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom towards minors. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session -- the draft law supplementing the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Amendments and Supplements Law on property taxes. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Parliamentarian Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point - Amendments and Completion of the Law on General Administrative Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Amendments and Supplements Law on the selection of MPs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I would like to put on the vote by Parliamentarian Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Amendments and Supplements Law on the selection of MPs. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by MP Nenad Konstantinovic to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that those who understand themselves on board have just come out. They probably sailed the yachts to the Maldives. This is very important because the ship's crews are raising rights. But earlier, most likely in the lack of sugar and water, my previous colleague was sick because he was here telling the truth. Due to yachts, the interests of citizens of the Serbian state have also been sold because of the boat. The country was brutally torn out of the hands of its citizens and in a certain way officials subdued their public functions to their private affairs, wanting to purchase vessels right away. Today they speak of “the yellow house. ” Whose yachts released 2,108 Albanian terrorists in 2001 and 2002? Let me remind you that these Albanian terrorists who were released, which they released, came out this Maldiac, that on 16 February 2001 they blew up believers who went to graves for suffocation in Podujevo. Those same terrorists they released blew up passengers who went to honor their dead. Fourteen people died, but 30 were wounded. These same Albanian terrorists have transferred several hundred to that "yellow house". That yellow paint, as far as I can see, Balsha, Shule, Kena got the party all the time, only yellow buttons left. So, these same terrorists they released because of the boat and yachts committed a March 17th 2004, and on February 14, three years earlier, the diversion destroyed a bus with 14 people and 30 wounded. These same people are involved in the Gorazdevec murder. And today they talk about terrorism, and because of their mildness, they let the convicts who have done so much evil. They need to know, they've lost the election, which you work hard to earn, if you don't earn it, there's no one to round you up. Therefore, you lost your election because of this behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28888	Thanks, it's been a while. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm now setting a break for an hour and we're going to continue at 15 hours and two minutes. [[After a break.]] Please confirm the quorum. I find 130 MPs present. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28890	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, colleague Vesna Marjanovic and I are months ago, after several attempts to speak in the Committee on Culture and Information about how an institution that should be an institution that is supposed to be a guardian of something that is public good is a national frequency, which should be a guardian of something that is legally required to keep, which is that it exists in the media area of respect for the law. So we have tried several times to draw attention to this subject, to initiate, and we have submitted amendments to the Law on Electronic Media which, through the amendments of several members, only speak of one thing, and that is to finally introduce order in this area, that there is finally control and that the regulatory body for electronic media, that so-called. REM which Serbian citizens very well suspected existed, due to the inadmissible silence of REM on everything that is mandatory under the law and which does not work. So, REM, this regulatory body for electronic media, and the Assembly has been complicit in the fact that members of REM today are people who are similar to one foreigner, and not who correspond to the law, therefore, this REM is inadmissible to the speech of hate, to the labelling of people, to the most brutal violation of the law, to be brutally silent for months and years on its own obligation to the citizens of Serbia, not to the Assembly, nor to the people's MPs, but to the citizens of Serbia, by respecting the laws, it says how many and whether political parties have had representation in the elections, because, once again, I will repeat, regardless of the fact that these elections have ended, the right of citizens is to be objectively and timelyly informed. With REM complicit in the intention of a man, president of Serbia, in the intention of a party, the SNS, to silence and to remove any space for discussion, any space in which to hear a different opinion, REM in such a, in its lack of doing, is complicit in its silence. What is absolutely amazing is that in the finale of this election campaign, when again, the electronic media regulator was silent about labeling, about hate speech, about drawing a target on political opponents, then one of the REM members woke up, woke up in pre-election silence, and informed citizens that one candidate or one party had an impact on public service. You know, when you don't have institutions, then one party takes over as an institution and exercises power. When you don't have an institution, then you can think of any man in this country, even if he was the president of Serbia, that he measures seconds and that he complains to the citizens whether he is evenly or to the extent that he felt he should be represented. When you don't have institutions, then the government in one country takes over the party. It's much more dangerous and much bigger than all your victories at the moment. When you don't have institutions, then the president of the state says his party will be a tonic in public service and that they will send a man who will measure the scales and control the tone. Taking away institutions by SNS is something that is dangerous and no victory will stop us.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28891	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one with abstention for the vote, seven against the abstention. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliament member Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28892	Thank you. I suggested forming a survey committee because I am fully convinced that the MPs of all parties do not want to be complicit in something that happened when the oath was taken by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, or the first swearing or first inauguration before the National Assembly. I will remind all of you together and Serbian citizens that in the day of the oath of the Serbian president, brutally attacked journalists, journalists, photographers, people who did their job. We have an incredible silence of the state, we have a greeting of such an act of violence against people who are doing their job by SNS representatives, in these few months we have the silence of the prosecution who thinks that there was no basis for the initiation of the procedure, and thus deafen what the journalists, the photographers reported, and what happened that day. Very precisely, because of the public's interest, because this must not be a country in which it is allowed to appear not only to the local public but to the world's public, much more dangerous than what the whole world saw. Which sends a message that when the president takes the oath brutally, he physically attacks journalists, journalists, photographers. So, in proposing on the formation of this polling committee, I have suggested that it be very clear to answer concrete questions and I will only briefly remind all of us of the obligation to make it possible by voice to discuss it, to find the culprits, to sanction, to never allow such a thing again. So, before, during and after the oath, has the SNS engaged private security? Has a private security guard been hired by the SNS, whether police officers who were on their mission at the time and police officers in civilians reacted when they saw before their eyes that violence was taking place to brutally push, attack and hit journalists, journalists and photographers. On whose orders are unknown persons who we can objectively suspect are either the officers of one party, or are private paramilitary, whose order they removed physically as they say or removed fellow SNS? Therefore, on whose orders the members of the MUP did not prevent unknown persons who found themselves on the scene committing a crime and also, no less importantly, what the competent state authorities had done before, during and immediately after the clearly committed crimes. So we live in a country where the affair is catching up with the affair and there's no room to talk about important things, because every day we hear and experience a scandal that's bigger than the other. This survey committee should answer these very specific questions and send a message that violence against anyone, especially journalists and journalists, people who do their job, is totally unacceptable. With that in mind, I am convinced that my colleagues will be able to talk about it here in their own voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28893	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for seven, against one, with abstention, there is none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković suggested that the session be completed on the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of domestic violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic suggest that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Branka Stamenković suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28894	Thank you. I suggest we put on this agenda a debate on the withdrawal of the dual education law, which we passed in this assembly a few months ago. I believe, therefore, that we do not need dual education at this time in Serbia, that the precondition for introducing dual education is the existence of a strong domestic industry. Let's say, in Germany, Austria, where we took the model of this law, you have a strong domestic industry and in this case dual education is also useful, it plays a useful role in the overall system of education. However, in Serbia, we do not have a strong domestic industry, we have foreign corporations that come here looking for cheap labour and unfortunately find this cheap workforce because our basic education system is not good enough. Our basic education system pays for all major reforms. Only when we make that reform will we at the end of the primary school have enough entrepreneurs to start the domestic industry. Then when we have the domestic industry, we'll be able to think about introducing dual education. I think it's too early that we're on our noses, a few months ago we passed this law on the introduction of dual education, and we need to think about it again, and talk about it here in parliament, because by withdrawing, by stopping this law, we would release both resources and time and finance that we could then invest where it is most needed and this is in a comprehensive reform of primary school education. We at the end of primary school have a large number of children who can't enroll in high school because they didn't get quality education in primary school. Please support me in this request and put this on the agenda, so we can discuss it in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28895	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Aleksandar Stevanovic and Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. People's MPs LJupka Mihajlovska and Tatjana Macura have proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National Parliament of Alexander Chabrai proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Cultural Goods. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on changes and additions to the Water Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Immobilisers. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on corporate tax. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28896	I have proposed a few laws concerning tax reform, primarily with a view to establishing a fairer social but regional distribution. I think it is important that we talk in this room about concrete data that we can find on official websites and documents and government and independent institutions in Serbia that talk about poverty levels and growing social differences in Serbia. I think that the basic and most important parameters, above all, are the average salary, the minimum consumer basket and the new consumer basket, based on which it can be seen that the percentage of people in status below the poverty line in Serbia is growing. At this point it's 8% and it's official data that you can see in these institutions. This is why we propose laws that can help people and motivate employers to raise the earnings of employees in the following way. One of the laws I have proposed is the Law on corporate tax, where the current fixed rate of 15% is something that we would change, and that's the change where a variable rate of 10% to 30% would be introduced, and that's the way to do it. So we would stimulate those employers who pay bigger profits to pay, simply, lower profit tax and thus increase profits, and thus motivate people who can increase consumption, and thus affect the increase in production in Serbia. The proposal is for those who pay the average earnings of 80% to 150% of the average of the region in which they operate, to keep the tax rate of 15%, for those who pay earnings of more than 150% of the average earnings in the statistical region in which a legal person pays and pays a 10% profit tax, and for all those who pay less than 80% of the profit tax would be 30%. So, this is a measure that I believe can establish a more correct relationship between the owners of enterprises that are not socially responsible enough and who take most of their profits as their own personal income, and not invest, reinvest in further development or do not fully pay off gross earnings employed by their companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28897	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28898	There is yet another draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. Given that the functioning of the electronic media regulatory body is likely to be one of the most important political issues in Serbia today, because the violation of the laws implemented by this law should be, an independent agency, reflected in the most direct, public interest of citizens, on their right to be objectively informed, on the principle of freedom of expression and on many other obligations that the law obliges members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media to apply. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing, both MPs and citizens and civil society organisations and international organisations, and reports on Serbia's EU accession that this body and this agency are absolutely far from fulfilling what its basic obligations are and what law prescribes. That's why for the last two years, we've come into a situation where this agency is today measuring decibels, not measuring the degree of public interest threat in electronic media. It does not allow the principle of equality between political and other opinions, violates the dignity of citizens, does not respond to the occurrences of discrimination and does not fulfil its obligations in any way. As a result, a group of MPs submitted an initiative to replace REM Council members last April. Until today, the Assembly has not spoken of it, and therefore I think it is important that we put this law on the agenda today, because in this term since this term of office, we have only had 11 sessions of the Committee on Culture and Information. The last one, if I'm not mistaken, was held in June of the month. All deadlines have been breached for the selection of REM members, three missing members. We have not declared our initiative to replace members of the REM Council and have not declared ourselves to be serious and harsh abuses of laws implemented by members of the current Board of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. That is why I call on you to discuss this seriously and in agreement because it is in the interest of all of us and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28899	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28900	The essence of this proposal is, above all, the inclusion of dividend incomes in incomes subject to annual income tax. The same goal is the bill on amendments and additions to the law, above all, to mitigate social differences in Serbia. In explaining the previous bill, I said part of an analysis on the status and state of poverty in Serbia. Now I'm going to tell you that, of course, the average salary for November last year is 47,000, that the minimum consumer basket is 36,000 dinars, and that the poverty limit for an individual is 11,000 dinars, and the poverty limit for a four-member family in Serbia with two adults and two children up to 14 years is 31,400 dinars. So, up to a minimum basket from that poverty line, there are 4,500 to 5,000 dinars missing to survive at a minimum in Serbia. Eight per cent of Serbia's population is covered by the biggest problem in Serbia. I think it's important that we talk about some solutions that can help at least reduce that percentage and at least show in this room that we care about these people and try to find a solution and that we can talk about those solutions that we agree on. So if we know that 28% of the population in Serbia is socially at risk and at the edge of poverty, at risk of poverty, about 35% is at the edge of poverty and socially at risk. I think by calculating seven million people and 38% we have almost 2,800,000 people in such big troubles. That is why it is important to talk about this, and I think it would be important to put this set of laws, at least in debate or that the Ministry of Finance, but also the committees responsible, the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, take into account such proposals to make an analysis and that the more often we talk about these key topics for Serbian citizens, because poverty in Serbia, the constant increase in prices, above all, food products, is something that Serbian citizens and how they feel when they enter shops every day, and on the other hand, they listen to discussions here that have almost no contact with real life. For this reason, I ask you to adopt this proposal and discuss these draft laws in the plenary session of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28901	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Goran Ciric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28902	It is the same objective of this bill as of the previous proposals. So to reduce social differences, establish greater social justice, establish greater regional justice and a fairer distribution in this regard. This proposal of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration reads and I will read it – persons are obliged to provide information on their assets under Article 2(2), twice on the course of this year. The deadlines are also given in Article 58. the position 2 is added – the sublegal act forms a special organisational part in the tax administration with specially trained personnel who, in co-operation with other state bodies of the MUP, the Catastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Securities Register, the APR, the Treasury Department, the Money Laundering Authority, would process submitted applications as a check-up of applicants who have not submitted their application. Therefore, the basic idea is to make more efficient comparisons of natural persons' assets with their reported incomes. On a few occasions, when I explained this bill and asked you to discuss this and set an example of us MPs. Since 1990, some MPs have been sitting in the congregation hall since the 1990s, perhaps 22 years of their parliamentary life experience. We know how the salary was, the average salary of the 1990s MPs, not more than 10 marks in 1993 or in those years of hyper inflation. It's now at about 800 euros. On average, when you calculate the total income or the average salary of Members who are 22 years old, that may be about 500 euros in the last 22 years. That MP could have legally earned 500 times 22 years times 12 months. It's easy to calculate, at an annual level, that's 6,000 euros. For 22 years, it means 120 plus 12, 132,000 euros. So when you compare the property of many people who could legally receive their income, how can they justify their property? I believe they had other incomes, but it is necessary to prove and verify exactly the tax returns, and that is why I have proposed this way in which special teams would be formed to examine this particular property, the origin of the money, the way they carried out their obligations to the tax authorities, to their country, and that it would not happen if we had ministers in the government... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28903	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28904	I thank the president. For almost a year and a half to change, I would say, the most hypocritical member of the criminal code that the ruling majority of Alexander Vukic put on a small door in the Criminal Code in 2016, with the intention of clearly staining the eyes of the international public. However, what I was saying back then turned out to be pure hypocrisy. In that case, a member who apparently seems to be doing a good thing was introduced into the Criminal Code, which is a ban on denying a crime called genocide and called war crime. So it's defined as a crime, denying it. However, when you look more closely at this article, you see that it refers only to the judgments of those courts that have nothing to do with Serbia and have nothing to do with the genocide and war crimes that have been committed on our behalf. It's the hypocrisy of this actually political decision, the party's decisions to allegedly punish the denial of genocide and war crimes, and in fact it doesn't seem to be. Jalov was also then an attempt by the minister of justice to explain this move by making decisions concerning only permanent courts and not temporary courts. She, as a lawyer and a minister, would have to know better than all of us together that this has no basis for legal science. Although I must say that I am not surprised that she does not respect her profession or legal science, because we see that in recent days she has been referring to the profession, to lawyers, judges, prosecutors who propose to amend constitutional amendments, that is, withdrawing the proposal for constitutional amendments, and that they have much more important associations of cobblers and hairdressers. However, the same happened with this very sensitive part of the Criminal Code with this member, and that is precisely why it is possible today in the country of Serbia that Vulin, the military minister, Mirin Mali, is propagating and promoting to lecturers at the Military Academy, convicted war criminals, who are right there to teach tactics of war or war. So I ask, once again, as for the last two years, that you face war crimes and genocide committed on our behalf, that this not only be the subject of presidential visits, but also to the dying of the international public, but to be found in the Criminal Code where it is... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28905	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and find that there are no abstentions for – six, against – two. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and bans and the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28906	Thank you, President. I ask this proposal to complement Article 5 of this Law, which would be prohibited from manifesting fascist symbols, messages and all that falls under it, and neo-Nazi, not only in relation to churches and religious communities and national minorities, but also in relation to the LGBT community, or all sensitive groups. Because, today, I can say freely, in the National Assembly, the whole of Serbia's society is a kind of sensitive group, or one large group, scattered into a number of less sensitive groups. Gentlemen, fascism isn't just that explicit fascism we've been witnessing for months back, when the streets of the capital gather and scandal both fascists and neo-Nazis, when fascists gather in the official rooms of the city, along with British fascists, walk the official premises of the government, in the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. I've been documenting it all here. So, people who openly and publicly advocate anti-immigration policy are calling for weapons against migrants, who deny Holocaust, hatred for minority groups, etc. It's not just fascism, I say, in this explicit form. All the squawking of citizens on each other, all the hatred this regime produces, leading to a civil war in this country, is also fascism. And that's what you need to say openly. Not to mention the media propaganda that Alexander Vukic absolutely perfected in his ugliness and hatred, that I'm not talking about fascism... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28907	MPs, don't, please, insult the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Take care of how you present your proposal. Please, no labelling of people who are seriously involved in politics. You can't say here for anyone that she's a Nazi, fascist or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28908	How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28909	You've got 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28910	Thank you. So I'm trying to explain, even though it's hard to understand, that fascism is not only an explicit fascism, but also all the propaganda that in the name of hate and grumbling at others who look different, who live differently, who think differently, who fight for a different, also fascism. Please, just think about it. There's been a serious fasciation of this society. Come on, look at these bill proposals and don't be ashamed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28911	MPs, I have to interrupt. There is no fascism in Serbia, and you cannot speak for Serbia and for the citizens of our country. The check of your attitudes was in the election behind us. You didn't get a passing grade. Serbian citizens do not want you to insult here the state you represent as a national MP. You cannot speak that way and claim that there are fascists in the Republic of Serbia. I think you've mixed up the states. I'm putting this motion to the vote, although I'd rather not, with such an explanation which is more than malignancies. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28912	Thank you, President. I would really ask you if there was no need for you to comment on the Belgrade elections in the National Assembly. We were elected here in parliamentary elections, not local elections for the city of Belgrade. Thank you for saying that. This is one of the laws that shouldn't even have party color, therefore, party color, one of the laws that should unite us all and for which I have also appealed for almost two years to take it into account and put it on the agenda with your support, at least to discuss it. It is, in fact, the intention to allocate more funds to the budget fund for the treatment of rare conditions and diseases that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, and from that part of the revenue that would not be taken away, so to speak, to someone from the institutions of health, social policy, education, culture, etc., but to tax revenues and taxes from casinos, bookshops, poker machines, let us move to this budget fund, so that with much more resources, many citizens, especially children, are treated where possible, and at this point is not possible in the Republic of Serbia. Don't make your mouth full of feelings for the youngest, for the sick, and we end up treating them with humanitarian concerts, text messages, which is a good thing, so the humanitarian feeling of each of us is desirable, giving a good example to everyone else, but here we have a budget mechanism. Here we have an institutional and system mechanism to further increase the budget fund in favour of those who cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, and that less goes for some other areas, which unfortunately, and evidence exists, are being poured into party goals. I'm asking you to at least put this proposal on the agenda, so maybe some amendments are being arranged the way you want them to. But let us, in these situations and with these goals, not be politically developed, but empathy and sensitivity to those who need help most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28913	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28914	Thank you. This is another law that has been amended in this assembly and this mandate, therefore, at the end of 2016 and which has, unfortunately, introduced such a measure that nearly five billion have been kidnapped by municipalities and cities, and in favour of the transfer of these funds to central government. And then I warned, especially Mrs. Brnabic, who has made serious progress in the meantime, and that our municipalities and cities are extremely indebted to each other because of this measure, and then I warned that the municipalities and cities, whoever led them, will live in them and the people who did not vote for your parties, who did not vote at all and have the right to a normal and safe and stable and better life, that such a measure will lead to the enormous responsibility of municipalities and cities, of course, under commercial conditions in banks and that the burden of paying off these debts will be on citizens who did not vote for such measures and for such decisions, and of course you will be able to justify how someone else led municipalities and cities to bankruptcy, and you will, whether or not, save the municipalities and cities from bankruptcy. The latest report from a few days ago, for example, the city of Pancheva, recorded an enormous task, for example. This three-billion-dollar town. If we add this, for example, also found in the DRI report, and a billion and a half damage to the citizens of Panchev, for example. They have to pay off because of the disastrous situation at the Pancheva Apotheca, the debt won't be able to be properly completed without the citizens of Pancheva feeling disastrously in their wallets for a long, long, long time. A fellow Sušec can certainly explain the situation at Apotheca Pancheva or his family, but be aware that not only because, among other things, taking and taking part of the funds from the locals and spilling into the central budget, but also because party coordinators do, I can believe that part of you does not know anything about it, I can also consider it, but they force mayors to sign illegal budget executions and that is something that is already emerging. I ask you once again to consider this law, so at least let's talk about it, all of it, even if all of this doesn't finally come out. Not to mention agencies, a party network, of course, agencies, through which you employ workers in institutions and public administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28915	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement on the Conservation of the Blind Mouse Population in Europe. You want to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28916	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer certainly knows how significant this law is. Since he deals with vineyarding, he knows very well how positive bats are for agriculture. Namely, one bat for one night eats three thousand insects. Three thousand insects. By day, dark birds, and by night insects. It is therefore very important to find a habitat for bats for plant protection. My fellow farmer obviously didn't know that. He's more fond of white mice if he hasn't seen the blind. This "hik" coalition, if it had freed Belgrade itself, would probably have seen it with Mrs "winodelic". Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, bats are compared to vampires, vampires with fascism, what is fascism? Ideology of blood and soil. There is no such thing in Serbia. There may be some forms of nationalism. It's not good, but it's not fascism when her leader, this new one, not Canak, kicks the man off the train, Zoran Zivkovic, my fellow farmer, just because he was traveling in a pumpkin smuggling business, in smuggling ventures when he was conquering foreign markets, so he threw the man off the train just because he spoke English, not even fascism. Not even fascism while little Milica Rakic was killed, that my colleague, the farmer, who freed Belgrade from himself, took from the YU guarantee of a military bank of 250,000, that Mr. Lazanski will surely know, the marks of the then and $100,000 for the purchase of the tank ammunition due to a possible land attack and that money disappears in the area of Dimitrovgrad, because he allegedly handed it over to some Russian they killed. Anyway, I believe it was money for a slightly larger contigent of coats. So it's not all fascism. It is not fascism when some money from the Banatian Shores turns into an apartment in Novi Sad, like Mrs. Tepic, of 160 squares, and then into Pancheva 99 squares, so when a favorite bodybuilder gives a million dinars from Pancheva. It's not fascism. It's a thief, not a fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28917	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28918	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we should all consider putting this law on the agenda. As a MP, I will carry out my duty to the pensioners, but also to other citizens of Serbia. If the law had been passed on 1 November 2017, those 600m euros that the pensioners gave to overcome the crisis in the state, according to the government, would have been one big gift for the pensioners. However, since this did not happen, between November 1st and today, several hundred thousand of those 400,000 pensioners have filed demands, which have already taken place with Serbia's Pension Fund, while others have already filed lawsuits. The government can sleep still for a year, but probably those there next year, either in Serbia or here, and if not in Serbia, then before the Strasbourg court, they will be brought to an end. What I was told in response to the government was that the reason which defined the adoption of this law was to ensure the financial sustainability of the pension system and thus the sustainability of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the country's macroeconomic stability. It'll all be questioned. When court decisions, and the amount of about 72 billion dinars, increased for interest, come toll, only then will what this law has been trying to prevent, collapse will occur, not only of the Pension Fund, but of the collapse of Serbia's budget. Here from the government's response, the prime minister, she says Serbia is in crisis, has been in crisis since 2014 when this law was passed. However, listening to the press as prime minister, and I listened to the president of the state 15 days ago when he said that a budget deficit of 12 billion dinars was foreseen for the first two months, and that we are in a budget surplus of 18 billion dinars. By that, then, gentlemen, you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28919	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28920	Gentlemen, there are probably more fighters in this room. Fighters have been waiting 27 years for one of these laws. We had a proposal earlier to pass the bat law. Should the fighters wait and will the fighters get their law after bats or before bats? After all, gentlemen, it's too many, 27 years. All countries in the environment have passed their laws on fighters. All states have regulated the question of fighters. What should Serbia expect in the future when it has this attitude towards fighters? I think what's going on in the last year, when there's a lot more talk about fighters, about that period than 18 or 19 years ago, when monuments are raised by fallen fighters, is more declarative. However, the first thing was to be passed was to give recognition to those people who, when called by the state, had committed their debt to the state, not to wait 27 years for someone in this House to decide whether to put this law on the agenda or not. I'm not saying that this law that I've drawn up with the fighters is the best, but, gentlemen, I call on you to make you better, but that the sooner he finds himself practically here on the Parliament's agenda, no matter how you vote, that's your thing, your relationship with the fighters, and how you represent yourself as the peoples of this people. I say again, my debt to the fighters, because I am one of them at the end, too, by warning you that it is high time after 27 years to pass such a law, that I have done my duty, and you vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28921	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28922	I explained the previous three draft laws and said that one of the objectives was to reduce social differences, and the bill should reduce regional differences, because we are aware that we have a major outflow, a population depopulation from the least developed regions and areas of Serbia. And it can illustrate this map that speaks of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, where only four areas earn more than the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. All other areas, light blue, are marked below that level. And that is a complex issue that has a major impact on demographics throughout the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the biggest problems, but here we can in one simple way, not to remove all problems, but at least to partially correct one injustice. The bill implies that local self-government units belong to the following taxes achieved in its territory, which we already have in the law, but also outside of its territory, in such a way that 74% of the income tax paid to employees, except for public sector employees, includes the general government and public enterprises, as well as 100% of the share of the income tax paid by public sector employees, as this implies that 700 000 people working in the public sector and which are mainly located in the largest urban centres in Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis and the largest cities pay to the place of their income taxes, which increases the significant revenues of local self-government in these major cities. On the other hand, all other residents of Serbia living in smaller places have also contributed to the creation of these large systems and EPS and the MUP and the military and users of all their services, but they have no income from the income tax of these people headed in these largest centres. So the proposal is that the proportion of inhabitants of each local self-government, each city participates in the division of that part of income. I will tell you, in addition to 700,000 people, which is an estimate of how much it works in the public sector, about 300m euros would be collected, which would mean 43 euros per capita in Serbia, for 700 000 seats, of 700 000 people, that is three million euros and some of the problems that most trouble people. It is better quality health care, better quality preschool, school institutions and many other things, than communal activities, but above all care about the better lives of citizens living in the entire Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28923	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28924	The motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President was launched by the MPs and I am, with their agreement, appointed as the promoter of this proposal, which we submitted on 13 April 2017. The reason for this proposal was, above all, a suspension of the work of the National Assembly by the President of the National Assembly during the presidential campaign in 2017. This threatened the dignity of the Assembly, and it certainly affected the fact that many important laws have not been adopted that will speed up reforms in our society and, of course, in a faster, more efficient and better way and achieve the goals that we have agreed on, even though the majority in this Assembly, and this is Serbia's European perspective. Today we show how current this proposal is because we are two and a half months in the assembly's dissatisfaction over now the local elections in Belgrade. The reason for this is that the Assembly actually brings instability, a dose of instability into our society, and for that reason, even if this was the explanation of the President of the Assembly a year ago. We haven't scheduled a meeting in five months. I, as well as the DS parliamentary group, firmly believe the undersigned promoters believe that the very diversity of opinions in this assembly and freedom of speech and different opinions and representation of all citizens who vote for and opposition MPs who think differently in fact represents the real stability of this institution. That's why we suggested a solution like this. You are also witnesses, and we, above all, are MPs of the opposition to the different treatment of opposition MPs and MPs. And this today's session in one part shows the really unworthyness of MPs in such a way that both those who lead both the President and the chairman of this Parliament in a way that is not respected by the Rules of Procedure in order, even if these draft laws. So we're coming up with a situation to redecorate the order of the legislators of these laws by looking at the way in which those who are not currently in the O.R. are going to be called. It's true, some of them didn't come to the O.R. at all, but they don't need to be outsmarted in that way, and I think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28925	Thank you. That's a very interesting explanation, but you've overstepped your time. Thank you very much. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I must say, before you speak these sentences, you should turn around, see that there are no more than 10, 15 MPs in the O.R. this morning and that it is impossible to imagine who will one day come to parliament. It is my duty to hold a session and call the MPs. So they shouldn't suggest agenda points if they don't intend to come and work. Turn around, see how many MPs are behind you. Only Gordana Komic. Thank you. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that your proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Here you go. You have to sign up first to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28926	Since you have answered this question, you yourself are aware of the importance of respecting the Rules of Procedure and the order in which the amendments and additions of the law have been reported. Obviously, that order is not respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28927	Just tell me the part of the Rules of Procedure, because you're already going to get hurt by the Rules of Procedure. Please tell me the precise provision of the Rules of Procedure which I have broken, which is the provision of the Rules of Procedure, rather than on a case-by-case basis, to stick labels to the President of Parliament. So exactly what provision of the Rules of Procedure do I violate by calling on MPs who do not want to come to the session today? So you just said this on a flat-rate basis just to make it public that the President of Parliament has broken something, and that doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. I'll wait for you to really say exactly what provision of the Rules of Procedure I've broken, an exact member, so I can answer that. (Goran Ciric: Give me your word.) Article 92 But it's simpler... ) It's not that simple, but when you blame someone for something, then we need to talk about it, because there's been enough labeling on the President of Parliament, so I came to say something that the president doesn't do right and I can because I represent some opposition. So, Article 92. – the agenda is determined by the National Assembly. We want to read on - People's MP, Government and other authorities can propose to withdraw certain points, etc., can also propose a reduction of time, etc. and so much closer, as the ignorant would say. So, really, refrain from the flats, because I'm seriously doing my job, and I don't think I'm breaking anything, see, to save two minutes, to wait for Peru, Ziku, who never comes. I have to call Goran Jesic because he doesn't want a bunch of such MPs coming, and please don't just say that the president doesn't care about who's in the O.R., who's not in the O.R., and I hear it persistently from you, MP. You are the head of the parliamentary group, therefore, if you have something to talk about, talk to your MP group, and don't deceive the public, because I simply don't allow any more beautiful labels for me as chairman. Please report again to explain the draft law amending the NBS Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28928	So, in this bill, first of all, responsibility is talked about as well as responsibility in this room, because each of us can see that when you submit ten draft laws and, in the meantime, when you are cut off by three draft laws dealing with personalities, names and last names or bats, it is clearly about breaking the Rules of Procedure. Here when we talk primarily about the responsibility for the management of one of the most important institutions, if not the most important institutions, in the Republic of Serbia, it is proposed that the 86b member we insisted on when adopting this NBS Act not to remain in this form, which is said to be the National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damages that occur in the conduct of the NBS business, unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. So, as a congregation, as MPs, we gave up something that can't really be clear to me, we gave up the logical relationship between responsibility and trusted rights in the decision-making process. So, if we entrusted the rights to all these institutions by the governor, the NBS Council for making such important decisions, then I guess they should have expected their responsibility and conditioned that right with the responsibilities they should also bear for this Assembly, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've abolized them in advance from possible mistakes. I do not claim that they are working against the law, but we have abolished the possibility of asking them for any responsibility and that is absolutely illogical to me, especially given the competence and key objectives that the NBS has, which are most important to the lives of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. This is primarily the achievement and maintenance of price stability in the Republic of Serbia. The law clearly states what is the responsibility of the NBS, and this job in which citizens are able to measure from 2012 until today, entering every store and comparing the prices of basic food products in each of the shops, grocery stores and I think it's easy to verify. We abolized them from it. Something that is more visible and completely clear is the management of foreign reserves. If we have information that at the end of 2011, they amounted to 12 billion euros, that at the end of 2017 they amounted to 9 billion and 900 million euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28929	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the peaceful settlement of work disputes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is very important for the simple reason that, and just before we heard their representatives, the party of the former regime almost destroyed the working class. She sold all the factories, all the social capital for 6.7 billion. For that money they bought import goods and we bought other people's goods for someone else's money and at those services they claimed they made bigger GDP. The GDP did not go from production, but went against production, 400,000 workers were jobless, 300,000 from production, and 100,000 from services. In doing so, while leaving the factories without workers, they were doing their own time of lustration of workers. On the other hand, in the public sector, they received their party comrades in unlimited numbers, so that on the one hand, the number of employees in the economy was reduced by 300,000, from services by 100,000, and they introduced hundreds of thousands of their party comrades into the public sector, and today they respect us, who have banned party employment. It is very important, given that we have employed a part of the workers they have left without a job, that these working disputes on various labour rights try to resolve them peacefully, and therefore I suggest that if not at this session, this law is on the agenda, given that they are the most valuable members, members of our society, and that those who have ruled before us have left us without dignity, that they were about to be written off the list of people responsible for living the life of a man. For them, the working class meant nothing to them, their job and their dignity meant nothing to them, and we now have to pay attention to the fact that money goes in favour of work, that it is evenly arranged, not as it is in their time outside, but that the good part of that money remains for workers where, unlike their tycoons, they will spend it here in the country and thus fill the budget and funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28931	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign a member of Parliament to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been given a report by the Committee on Administrative, Budgetary and Budgetary Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, which has determined that the conditions have been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly be in line with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Sandra Bozic, elected from the election list Aleksandar Vukic - Serbia wins. On the basis of the decision of the RIK, a report by the Committee on Administrative, Budget and Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, I'm confirming the mandate of MP Sandra Christmas. Congratulations to the People's Parliament on your election and please prepare to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approach the swearing of an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. I ask the People's Parliament to sign the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you on my behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wish you success in the ongoing assembly of the National Assembly in the remaining term. We continue to work on the agenda. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28932	The draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act is one of the series of health laws, i.e. the health care of the nation. I propose two more laws, one on the election of MPs, one on the election of Serbia's president, to introduce a medical examination obligation for all the seats. I think it's very important and obviously necessary from experience, from a long line of years, from intense experiences in the last four, five years. So, the Government Act should be changed, the name above the members and the Article 11 and it should be – health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, so that Article 11 reads – before the government is elected, every proposed member of the Government must provide medical assurance about health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the Government cannot be in another public office in a state body, an AP body, a city municipality, a city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of a member of the Government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest, and a member of the Government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. Let us ignore at this time the appearance that government members are appearing, including now the president of the state or the self-appointed president of the state in a specific case in local elections campaigns, even if it was the city of Belgrade, but rather the focus of staying on the health review being necessary for all candidates. Of course, that would be true for some future governments, not just for this current one, where it is obviously most needed. We have many obvious examples that government members have some health problems. Some manage to hide them temporarily or for a long period of time, but not all the time. Many show them every day, not just through anxiety, not only through oblivion of what they promised, but also in concrete real situations, by repeating for those who think that corruption is not a disease, it is a crime. So those who take out their aunts by far, but the friendly countries aren't sick, they're criminals. I am talking now about those who obviously have many physiological, and God forbid me and intensely and many psychiatric problems and psychological problems, and such a law would be good for the citizens of Serbia. I call upon you, before the recent parliamentary elections, to adopt this law together and thus create conditions to finally get a healthy power.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28933	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28934	One of the essential laws that enters into this part of the health law, but not this time the health of high-ranking state officials, but, more importantly, in the part concerning the health of people who are employed. What is important is the change in that law, that I also ask my colleagues to support this bill, that in this law in Article 187 paragraph 1 is changed and said – during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for the care of a child, leave of work for the care of a child and leave due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. We today have a solution that does not include this last category, which is the absence for more than 30 days, and we have witnessed that everyone can do so, not by their own free will and not by their own fault, which leads him to being absent for more than 30 days and today as an employer, anyone who is an employer, whether they are phantom firms of some relatives, high-ranking state officials, whether they are firms that come from far away from us, large investors, such as the Arab Emirates who have recognised Kosovo, just to remind me, long ago, among the first ones that allegedly build something around Belgrade, on water, and actually launder the money of local criminals in high government functions, whether it's about companies that are normal at first sight. I think it is in the interest of all of us to help the citizens of Serbia move from demagogy to practically good solutions and to come to the conclusion that, during pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from work for special care of the child and absence from work due to temporary prevention for 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. I call upon you, regardless of which party we come from, to show our humanity and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28935	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28936	Obviously, I've expected a little too much humanity in this system of things, so let's move on. Another health law. This time of health at the highest level, which is to suggest that I amend the law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. To state the precise proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, where Article 1 states that point 2a (point 2a) is added in Article 11(3), which reads – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. To translate that into a simpler language. This means that a candidate who wants to become president of the state, or is run by a party or in some other way by a group of citizens, has to deliver the necessary documents to the electoral commission and that he is capable of working in state bodies. I have repeated several times, to repeat once again, if we are looking for, very justifiable, such health assurance for people who work as porters, as secretaries, as senior advisors, as drivers, or anyone in the state administration, and that is of course necessary, such confidence is also necessary for people who work outside the state administration, in what is called the real sector, that it is perfectly normal that at least this level of health, or evidence of their health, must be borne by people who will have high state functions tomorrow, if they win the elections, of course, and make sure that we will not be led by someone who is sick. We have many examples in our further, and especially in our latest history, that such a thing is necessary, because anyone who would participate, say, from the post of self-invited president of Serbia in the local elections in Sopot, Bor, Arangelovac, not to speak of Belgrade. That's what a normal man can't do. It would have been prevented if we had this law passed a year or two ago, but to prevent such insanity from happening again, such unhealthy behavior. I urge you to adopt this bill and that in the next election among Serbian presidential candidates only people will be in the race, so one of them may be elected, only those who have the minimum necessary health in both physiological and psychiatric terms to be candidates for the responsible position of the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28937	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. Can not get message: %s %s Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by this – the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28938	The last of this set of health laws concerns the election of MPs, or those people who will be sitting in these benches for us or for some of you, and who should make important decisions in this country. The law reads - in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, “St. The messenger, etc., in Article 4(2) after point 1, shall be added 1a, which shall read as follows: ‘medical confidence in the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the national authorities’. Because this authority - the highest authority of government in this country, parliament, is the most numerous and then the most obvious examples of the need to place medical confidence among the lists of documents necessary for candidates who want to become MPs. We have a lot of examples that are obvious and I think it's very important. There are various doubts and there are even opinions from some institutions, including some medical associations that have sent me during today's session of their opinions, so they told me that, let's say, the smartest one, the doctors say, let me repeat, the smartest one, the most beautiful one, the most witty one among you today, is the most creative one who reports for word today, saying that he is not the only one, but that there is a reasonable doubt that there is a disease in parliament called co-prophagia and that some of them are obviously showing it with each of their performances. And it's not the only one. Scatophagia, coprphagia, some of it, two medical associations can't agree on what's true, but it's obvious that these are two names for the same phenomenal form that we saw here. Therefore, in order to prevent this parliament from being a place where there will be an outbreak of certain diseases, I am not only talking about the little goddesses, the great goddesses, but also about the coprophagia or the scotphagia, I am calling on you to support my proposal and to declare that every future candidate, and because it was obvious for the choice of one part of the present MPs, must bring a doctor's assurance that he is capable of working in the state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28939	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Is this the same thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28940	This is not about health laws, this has to do with some of the other things we witnessed in this city election campaign and in many previous campaigns. The president and someone at the chair or vice president asked me to re-diagnose this diagnosis - co-prophagia or skatophagia, at the request of the vice president. So, there have been many examples that in the election campaign in the past elections, not only in this last election, but in many elections that took place in the last five, six, seven, and even many years we have enormously large spending of money, some estimate that it is at a level of more than 50 million, that it is close to 100 million euros, let's say for parliamentary and some other elections that go parallel with them, say presidential or some local, that between 50 and 100 million euros is given for advertising on television and on electronic media, and it is obvious that these ads are pointless, that they are stupid, that they are horrible, disgusting and that they have no aesthetic, political or any other value. It looks like some of the phenomena we have a chance to see in this House. That's where the big money is thrown, and that money, 50 to 100 million, can be used very simply, I suggest it be directed to that side, to treat unhappy children who are suffering from diseases that are incurable to us, because there is no adequate medical facility for us to solve it. This amount could be quite enough to treat not only all children who suffer from any incurable disease, but also enough for all people over the age of 18 who also suffer from diseases for which there is no cure in Serbia. I call upon you, because of these people, because of these children and for the protection of our ether against dirt, primitiveism, aesthetic, political and other negative, disgusting propaganda, to pass this law. I have spoken several times and I will repeat that similar laws prohibiting the advertising of political parties on electronic media (read: on television and on radio), that this exists in the UK, France, Denmark, Spain and many other countries of the European Union and outside the European Union, which says that democratic life without stupid advertising on television can also take place in countries based on democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28941	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivković suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28942	Another painful point for the congregation's majority is the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Higher Education, where Article 1 says, in the Law on Higher Education, point 1a) is added, which reads: “Academic congratulation”, in Article 2 says – after Article 5, the name of a member and Article 5a is added, which reads: “Academic congratulation, Article 5a), says: “Academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works, as well as on the strict respect of foreign copyrights.” Article 3 deals with the day of publication of this law. Thus, Article 5a) is particularly important: “Academic honesty is based on independent workmaking, as well as strict respect for other people’s copyrights. ” So Article 5a is particularly important. Academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. Obviously it has been proven that the current mayor of Belgrade, the current interior minister, the current governor of the National Bank, who else did we have? The former president of the state and many others less famous to the Serbian public failed to achieve the ability to produce written papers independently, regardless of how some were able to graduate on Sunday or graduate with the Serbian text of their dissertation, and that members of the commission are people who are foreigners and do not know the Serbian language. No matter what, I think it's very good to prevent our activity from acting like that. I don't remember whether the past or the current minister of education told me, promised to all of you, that it would be incorporated into the new Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, but unfortunately, it didn't happen. I expect us to come to an agreement on this, that diplomas are very important, of course, but only if they are a reflection of serious learning and knowledge acquisitions without diplomas being important because of being good forgeries of something that some serious people have been doing seriously for decades. To be professors, and then to educate good students who give all the exams, doctorate, or first graduate, and eventually doctor. Then it can't happen to you that we have someone who didn't deliver medical assurance when it was his choice, that he was the best student of some law school and that he was waving index and he studied for six years at the university whose studies lasted four years at the time. Maybe he was the best college student who'd studied for six years. That's possible, and if that's true, I'm withdrawing my statement, but the logical definition is that the best student is the one who's on the deadline, and that means in four years, he's given all the exams.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28943	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28944	This proposal, which enters the third year, has already entered the third year as it is before you. I don't see any reason why he hasn't been adopted so far. The resolution in the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922 is said. I was already talking about the similar documents, declarations, resolutions and laws, that it was brought more into 20 countries. Among others in the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and some US countries. Why does it matter? Because we are no doubt, whether it's proven in any court or not. As citizens of Serbia, our ancestors, whether Serbs or other nationalities were victims of genocide and the Ottoman Empire, both in World War I and in World War II and in what was happening in the 1990s, and there was a question from which no longer came this genocide, whether inside, whether from the outside, whether from the sky, whether from the building across from the Assembly. In any case, our interest, the interest of the citizens of Serbia, Serbs and others is to condemn genocide and fascism wherever it is, is it absolutely not appropriate to the spirit of this country and people and people who live on one soil, not in the spirit of the 21st century, not in the spirit of Europe, nor in the spirit of anything that makes sense to anything normal. A brief reaction from the president to the presentation of my colleague, Marinika Tepic, on fascism, was just a moment ago, and it was said that fascism does not exist in Serbia. I would like to refer the president to a statement by the president of Serbia or the self-proclaimed president of Serbia as of 22 November last year, which he said in Novi Sad -- fascism will be destroyed in Serbia as soon as possible. If someone claims something can be destroyed within the shortest time limit, it's that they think it exists. Therefore, if your president thinks there is fascism in Serbia, allow Marinika Tepic to have that attitude. Of course, it agrees that the bill is not to admit whether or not it exists, but to create conditions for someone to be convicted if they broadcast fascist ideas, to be tried and imprisoned if they glorify the fascism of any color, mark, coat of arms or do not know what markings. I think it's important to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28945	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28946	This law is linked to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which I have talked about advertising and the senseless spending of money on dumb, aesthetic, moral, legal and any civilizedly unacceptable acts of some political parties who call themselves progressive or whatever it would be, must be built and the Law on the financing of political parties where, in order to reach that effect, Article 23 deletes Article 3 and does not reduce it but disappears and the conditions and prohibits the financing, advertising of political parties on electronic media. Of course, the question can be asked how do you think Serbian citizens then get information about what political parties are doing. There's a big newspaper there, and I think, and you obviously haven't heard about it, but almost 40, 50 to 100 years ago, there's a novelty that's that in the news and in the written media, and later in the electronic media, those who publish that newspaper and those who speak in that newspaper and who edits these newspapers or televisions or radio stations, they're telling the truth about what a political party is doing. They're telling the truth about the state of society, and when the elections aren't going to believe it, that's where the TV duels are organized, where the man running for president has two more, three more people, whether they're men or women, with whom he talks about the most important topics, and in direct transmission, and that's rich with one, two, three cameras. It is usually done in public service, and it is perfectly normal to do so in all national frequencies. I know it's a novelty, that it's hard to come to the advanced minds that are currently leading this country, which they've taken on the edge of the break-in, as they say, now they've taken a step forward and now this country's falling down there break-in, not suspiciously, but I'd like to apply this new 50 to 100-year-old thing to us, to organize these shows of political representation, to make the information programme informative, not happy, pink or not know what kind of lie, and to create conditions for us to save these fifty to 100 million, to be used to treat children and adults who can't be treated in Serbia, and to watch on television a program that's full of truth and program that gives us real information.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28947	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. There were six on the screen, and now it's seven, if that's what it means, but the censorship doesn't cross. You know that. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28948	And this is a law that goes into serious years by how long it's been in parliament. Practically, this is the second edition of a good law that one serious government passed in 2003 and was adopted in parliament in the same year 2003, which called the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and settlements and which, among other things, normal things and conditions to live normally in Serbia, also had some very specific provisions. Let's just say it's forbidden to build wildly. This means that when you have no document, and especially not the necessary document called a building permit, and before that there is the consistency of the building permit with the detailed urban plan, with the regulatory plan, etc., etc., that you can't start building anything, which means you can't even stab an ace, you can dig a hole to lay a stone foundation, let alone do something further. Unfortunately, all around us, in all of Serbia, in Belgrade, is intensely from Beograda on Water, which is the largest wild construction site in the history of humanity, so the Keeps Pyramid had more compliance with the detailed urban plan, not to mention the Eiffel Tower or any other facilities, than there is a "Belgrade on Water" that was passed by special law, Lex specialis, which reads – with whom then the Deputy Prime Minister of Dinner and whoever escorts him to the bedroom, somewhere in our remote, friendly countries, which have recognised Kosovo, it gets a Lex speciality that he can build in Belgrade whatever he wants. It's kind of a translation of that law, and these facts that I've made are, according to the statements of the subjects that I listed in this sentence. Therefore, in order to prevent that and a few more thousand wild constructions, to repeat several times already, Nebojsina 8, my parliamentary question, a solution to the collapse, a drawn executive solution to the collapse, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport and Construction what was, they say they filed a criminal report, and the facility was completed before the New Year's decorations were removed in Belgrade, which were hanged there sometime before the end of the summer. It's just one example. I'm getting a bunch of e-mails with examples, from Stargazers, Palillula, New Belgrade, suburban municipalities. This should be prevented, and the condition for it is to pass a good law, and this proposal is a good law from that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28949	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs, it did not vote 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2016. National MP Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law also included my fellow farmer's vineyard in an attempt. But, Mr. Chairman, you read the stenogram. In a discussion, he gave fellow MPs a diagnosis of co-prophagia, one five minutes earlier. This means – consumption of feces. He told us in Serbian to eat shit. Well, Mr. Chairman, if I were to do this, Mr. Zivkovic's family would wear black. He's lucky, I don't eat yellow. You check it out, anyway. And if that's true, give some warning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying - you're worth what an opponent is worth to you. Here, I risk talking to my opponent, Zivkovic, taking the risk I'm not worth anything. If I'm worth what my opponent is worth, if my opponent is Zivkovic, then I'm not worth anything. But I'm risking it. Someone's value counts when you take away their negatives from their positive traits. If we did that on his case, he'd be negative. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one can insult you or humiliate you unless you agree. So, I believe you disagree with my fellow farmer's attempt to try. He talked about the education of a man who finished his high school night, with dinner. About education and diplomas was told by a man who finished that higher school around a vain, in vain about more, take whatever you want. The diagnosis was referred to by a man with a diagnosis, who, due to psychiatric diagnosis, was incapacitated by the military. And to speak in Russian, I ask to bring here an alcometer, so what the Russians say – in us a simple show, there's an alkahoric. Hence the white mice, hence the bats. Blind mice have long fingers, and my fellow farmer is known for it. Everything he said was a lie. That's the man who was happy with the fire. It's a man with a safe diagnosis and he's the last one who can talk about diagnosis. That is why the saying applies to him, and the most difficult thing to do is to set up your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28951	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 16 MPs, 129 did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Society "Such Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28952	The suspicion has been expressed as to the involvement of the National Bank of Serbia in illegal activities that led to the practical destruction of the "Sucha" as insurance houses. They say workers, management, people who were related to this insurance, were on the verge of one good, not privatisation, but selling to a foreign partner, and that the competition of that foreign partner had done everything over the competent state authorities, above all the National Banks, to withdraw the license to work “Such insurance”, although it had better status and better references than the largest number of other insurance companies. On their proposal, I tabled a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee in order to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the unlawful withdrawal of the authorisation for the operation of the Action Society "Such insurance of Kragujevac", which should determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the licence. This committee would make up one MP from each parliamentary group. Everything else is technical. This should determine us: what is the responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia for the withdrawal of a license for the work of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance Kragujevac", because of the said lack of technical reserves at the time they were above the average on our market; who is responsible for the destroyed reputation of the owner of "Such Insurance" and responsibility for 104 workers who have lost their jobs and their families. I think it is in our interest that we do this job, that the Serbian public gets information about it, and that, if it is found that someone was doing something contrary to the law, that it is also handed over to the competent state authorities, or to the judicial authorities, who should launch their own action on that. I'm asking you to vote for it, and I'm very sorry that the smartest, most of all, was recognized by those doctors who called me and just didn't tell me what diagnosis he was identified in, whether he was in a copophagia or...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28953	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, it did not vote – 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Co-production, revised, submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important law and I ask it to be, not now, but in some of the next sessions. So he's significant. It can bring significant income to this country. By listening to Mr. Zivkovic, I believe he can play in horror movies and horrors. It can be quite successful in cartoons, to be "the mouse got the flu and sat in the jeep", so now he thinks he's something important, got up on his back feet. He is famous for it and should make a film about his young days, when he was walking around the school like that and, drawing on white coats, he was pelcating chickens in the village of Pukovac. Imagine that movie. Imagine that co-production -- real film. Zivkovic's chicken entangles intelligence and thus creates a "zoca virus". Zika virus is known for reducing the head and the "Zoka virus" because it reduces what's in the head and that's why he is who he is and I'm looking for an understanding for my fellow farmer. He went to the scanner after that interlocking intelligence with the chickens to record his head and didn't find anything. So I believe that in these films he could successfully play in co-production and that it would be worth it to our country. He could also talk about a partyocrat here, so he could tell how he put a woman working in the prosecution to be a party observer at the City Election Commission. For me, it is an outrageous conflict, but he could tell that Serbia is a country of wonders and that his wife can also be a prosecutor, could also be a member of his party and, in the name of the party, represent his party, i.e. the "hick coalition". The value of this "hik coalition" is not counted in percentages, but in prominences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28955	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, it did not vote – 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Convention on Temporary Import, tabled by the Government on 24 January 2018. Does MP Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28956	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important law. So it's about temporary imports. So, those who want to make this famous film can temporarily import equipment without having to pay customs duties if these same goods, cameras, equipment, after the famous shooting of the film about the Colonel, after the famous shooting of the protest film Zivkovic called and no one came because he called his members, so that a movie about the unfortunate man who applauds "Belgrade on Water" could be filmed. So it's a temporary import that's being released from customs and I think that law should be considered anyway at one of the next sessions. I think we have made significant import and export results and that export coverage has reached almost 80%, that our economy is working, that hardworking people have finally taken power, that a skilled leader recognized the chance to raise this country and get out of the trouble these unfortunate, former regime party and bankruptcy directors have pushed it, and so I suggest you be maximumly committed, worthy of not looking up to my fellow farmer. You can't get to success by elevator, it's not easy. Until success, we climb the ladders, hard and every day we need to be committed to it and step by step to get this country out of the fungi in which they pushed him like my colleague Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28957	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, he did not vote – 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstamović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 June 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? He's not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, it did not vote – 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 24 October 2016. National MP Marko Djurisic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, it did not vote – 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 13 October 2016. National MP Marko Djurisic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, it did not vote – 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. National MP Marko Djurisic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – no one voted – 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Ambassador Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law Proposing Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. National MP Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 143 MPs did not vote for – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 12 February 2018. Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Ambassador Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Act on Excises, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 November 2016. Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 143 MPs did not vote for – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 12 February 2018. Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 143 MPs did not vote for – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Marko Djurisic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 143 MPs did not vote for – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, No 011-2085/16, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Miroslav Aleksic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I propose the Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government and it concerns the work and functioning of local communities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I consider this law to be important to create conditions and commit and urban environments to have the obligation to form local communities, as it does in rural areas. Also, the second member of this bill refers to financial independence, i.e. financial decentralisation of territories belonging to certain local communities, above all to gain importance and to allow citizens at these lowest levels of government to exercise their rights and to choose what is to be done, to happen in their environments. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, there is only one city that carries out this work, and this is the opposition town of Sabac, which I am talking about, despite the law, has applied in its midst. Today, citizens themselves decide how much and what they will actually invest in. Some other cities had previously participated in participatory budgeting, as did Tristenik, but today in Serbia, unfortunately, there is no. It is not because it is far easier for you to centralize additional power, to centralize Serbia and to decide from one register first among you who will be given as much money. So this year you have 10 billion in the budget left at your disposal to the prime minister, who, according to his opinion, will be exclusively driven by political motives, deploying and giving such a Santa Claus gift to some cities and municipalities, which are politically willing to punish all others in which today is not the Serbian Progressive Party. I therefore propose this law, and I think it is important that such a law be passed because it should give meaning to those people who are willing to take over the problems in their environments, but that is why they should be given funds. These people came out by name and last name in this election. In the end, the most you have in Serbia, I don't see why you wouldn't help your members in local communities, but it's clear that you don't fit the system of the institution, you're comfortable with the system of power of a man who's someone who's going to give someone gifts and punish someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28959	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28960	Thank you. This is also an important law concerning Serbia's economy. I suggest it by who knows which time so far. The point of this law is to facilitate economic operators and domestic entrepreneurs in Serbia to be able to normally operate and operate, to free themselves of payments, or to reduce the tax base for all newly employed workers who are employed in the current year, as well as to free all legal entities and entrepreneurs in underdeveloped business areas of Serbia from a period of up to three years of paying taxes on profits. Unfortunately, you entrepreneurs in Serbia have not recognized it and you have shown it for six years and therefore you should not be surprised by this economic situation in Serbia, you should not be surprised that Serbia is now starting at a percentage of GDP growth in Serbia. What is more important to you is that you help from a half-empty register any foreign investors who come here to start jobs, simplest actually jobs, turn the whole of Serbia into a land of cable braiders, while the prime minister here, who in her exposé talked about digitisation, said that through digitisation, modern technologies, we would start the business of Serbia, so we don't fit each other. So what you're saying doesn't match the facts and what you're doing in Serbia. Today, Serbia is turning into a country of cheap labour, where citizens should be satisfied because someone has given them a job and a salary of 200 euros, while, in parallel with that, you have increased the cost of living and all other charges over the past six years, cut both salaries and pensions in the public sector. That this law is important speaks about how many companies in the Republic of Serbia are blocked today. You have 37,000 blocked companies in Serbia. You have a blockade that is measured at over two billion euros and these are companies that are due to bad ambience and bad business and because the state does not care about them, except when it is necessary to blackmail them and ask for capillaries from these companies, it absolutely shows no concern. So, also, as far as VAT returns to legal entities in Serbia are concerned, the case shows that absolutely entrepreneurs represent nothing for you. That is why they are participating today with less than 30% in creating GDP in the Republic of Serbia, and the average in developed countries of the world and the EU is at least double that. You said you'd change the law and you'd fix the environment. You didn't do any of that. The domestic companies in Serbia serve you only to rob them, to take money from them, to send them inspections, to charge the budget for the budget later to use the funds on crazy Beograda on water projects, to buy trees of 80,000 euros, to place masts, to make gondola in Belgrade, but it will not start the economy of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28961	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, 142 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 17 May 2017. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28962	Thank you. Last May, I submitted a request for the establishment of a survey board to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. It is clear that you are not interested in establishing facts relating to the respect of the Public Information Act, in determining whether the state has actually come out of the media control or has only replaced ownership control. You are not interested because you today create a fake picture of Serbia with the help of these media, which again finance the money of Serbian citizens, from the budget, from both republican public enterprises and local self-government and all other institutions that spend money on Serbian citizens. Today we have a situation that there is no free journalism in Serbia, that there is an unprecedented degree of self-censorship and that can be proven at every step, whether it is an election campaign or not. In fact, you've been in an election campaign for six years and these media outlets are every day in an election campaign for the ruling regime. As far as the law is broken, so much is not respected by the Constitution and the right of citizens to objective information, say examples from local backgrounds. In particular, in the municipality of Trstenik from which I came last year, 11 million dinars were paid to private television based on project financing. For that money, they were exclusively in the service of local government promotion, led by the SNS in Tristenik. Also, this year the same amount is defined. It's the money of Serbian citizens. You break the law and you violate the Constitution, both at the level of the Republic and in the local environments. In fact, how devised is the set of laws relating to privatization of the media that this project financing has become a serious corrupt mechanism for financing the media that is close to the ruling regime. So, if we look at how the media acted recently in a pre-election campaign for local elections in Belgrade, you will see only on one occasion that the ruling party had 73,945 minutes, positive about them on electronic media, while the list we led, i.e. in which the People's Party participated, had 2.255 minutes. On the other hand, the negative minutes we had 13,945, and you had 852 as SNS. So there is no democracy in such an environment. There is no truth in such an environment. Citizens are not aware of what you're doing to them and that every day you're actually destroying the system, destroying institutions and bringing citizens to the beggar stick. Every day poverty is growing, but unfortunately, citizens, unless they make sure they're looking at their pockets, they won't be able to figure out what's true and what's lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28963	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: 144 MPs did not vote for – two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28964	Thank you. I have proposed that this law be taken over by fellow SNS MPs or any other ruling party to propose it themselves. I also proposed to the Minister of Education that he, as a representative of the Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, propose this law because I consider it important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's important to all those people who are teaching their children. It's important for all students and gifted students who, unfortunately, for a year and a half I suggest it, but you don't want to put it on the agenda. It is a law that regulates and provides for the scholarship of students and students, therefore, the law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which only needs to be brought into line with the Law on Student and Student Standard. It's more of a technical thing, that people who want in local self-government to finance their best students and students, that they can do it without breaking the law without fearing whether or not the auditor will write them a criminal report. That one simple thing isn't interesting for you to change. This shows that you do not really care about young people or about education. You're talking here about how young people should affirm themselves and work in Serbia, but actually, they're the sphere of your interest only when they need to be a safe voice or a capillaries voice. You forget, gentlemen of power, that the intellectual potential of a country is the same as gold or oil or more than that and that all countries today in the world are trying to preserve their intellectuals, only you are opening the door to our gifted students, the best students to develop some other countries in the world. That's obviously not what you're getting at. You are not tangled by the fact that tens of thousands of people leave Serbia every year. You're talking about how you've reduced your unemployment rate, and you're not talking about how many people have been able to work out of Serbia, how many of them you've deleted from the employment service records. You don't have enough money for these young people. You predicted for the office of the former president of the Republic of Serbia to co-operate with China 50 million dinars. It was better that you focused these resources on the Youth Fund. You singled out 360 million dinars for some gondola in Belgrade only this year as a tourist attraction, and you don't think about who's going to stay in the country and who's going to live here. Also, you don't spare any money for a third child, as one of the ministers said, that it will bring down the country's economic stability, but that's why all these pointless projects and billions that have been thrown out of "Beograda on Water", through other projects with various fake investors, is obviously not going to bring down the system by you because you are benefiting, you who are today managing Serbia and you who are not caring for the citizens of Serbia, do not worry about the interests of young people, students, students, their parents, but that is why you are taking care of you and your pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28965	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28966	Thank you. I also propose this law for more than a year and it concerns increasing incentives in agricultural production. You did not realize that in Serbia today, about two million people live on agriculture, which works in more than 630,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia. You also deceived farmers in 2012 when in your White Paper, which you presented when you came to power, you said that from 2012 onwards you would raise the agricultural budget by 1%. That budget was 5% then, it's 4.5% today. So, not that you didn't raise it by 1% every year, which would mean we have over 10% now, but you've reduced it after six years of your reign. It actually says that you also deceive farmers in Serbia, as you deceive entrepreneurs, as you deceive all other social structures. What I'm proposing here is certainly not going to come to the agenda, not because you don't want it, but because you're not told to come to the agenda until you hear the bells, you don't vote for any opposition proposal. That's one reason. The second reason is because in this year, farmers cannot expect what was promised to them when the budget was adopted. In fact, ten billion are due to agricultural producers for unpaid incentives from 2017. When you subtract that amount, which is due from the amount planned for this year, you will realize that the budget is far less than the budget for 2018. In fact, you believe that agriculture can be started by teaching some investors, some Germans, some Arabs to give the country and giving them that they are processing the Serbian country and teaching Serbian farmers how to work, and in fact, in the middle, it is only a personal interest to those close to your regime. Thus, we have an example of the giving of 10,000 hectares of duchy hurricanes to a phantom firm called Al Ravafed, which locals there say in a lack of information by the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, we hear that Prime Minister Andrej Vukic's brother is processing the country, the 10,000 hectares. So you deny it, say it's not true, that there's a company called Al Ravafed or Al Dahra that's being processed today. Therefore, farmers are also something that serves you only in pre-election campaigns, and it will likely continue in the next period, but also serve to take from them the means to which they are entitled. This year you are preparing for them to introduce a voucher for all those seasonal workers, which will further accumulate agricultural production in Serbia and endanger the competitiveness of our farmer.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28967	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of urbanism. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on State Transport with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova in international road traffic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending Article 50A of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending Article 56. Conventions on International Civil Aviation. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 3, no one with abstentions is available. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marijan Rističević proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending Article 50A of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending Article 56. Conventions on International Civil Aviation. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28968	Yeah, I apologize, the system a little bit, I pressed, it doesn't react. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what I have proposed for the Wolf of Jeremiah in a people known as the Wolf of Seeds. The Air Force is very important. Considering that in five years he spent on flights and trips 20 times more than his colleague in Croatia. He spent 3.5m euros, which is why this Convention is very important. Translated, divided per year, 700 000 euros per year, which means he spent 2,000 euros on flights every day. His MP here talked about corruption, about half-empty cash registers, about subsidies, about incentives, said that we didn't even raise the rate of incentives in agriculture. They planned 19 billion for 2012, we spent 34 and this year we plan 34 billion, which is 80% more than they predicted for 2012. Also, in 2012, they collected 800 billion revenue, we collect a billion and 160 from the same country and the question arises where 360 billion went missing, and three billion euros disappeared annually from the state register, and today we hear about their story, about a half-empty cash register. The cash register was completely empty, but that's why Vuk Jeremic, who probably had an oil source in Cazin, bought a 1m-euro apartment from Murat age Pozerac in Belgrade, sent to Siti Bank to his wife $650,000 in a single transfer, and so they're talking about corruption today. Vuk Jeremic's allowance was 25,000 euros a month. So he had so much right to spend, only an allowance from the Serbian government and publicly boasted that he retired generals, war officers. He and Boris Tadic boasted in the U.S., where he visited. Also, Vuk Jeremic asked the United States not to declare independence until Boris Tadic was elected and was richly rewarded for it. That's where that 1 million-euro apartment came from. Albanians listened to Vuk Jeremic by swearing their oath on February 15th 2008 by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, and Albanians declared independence on February 17th and in the same year 2008. So this is the result of his wealth, not the oil source Murat age Pozerca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-06-0.u28969	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please determine the quorum before moving to the vote. Throw in your cards. Check the cards. There's no card on the screen. Check the credit cards or the system, anyway, since you can see how many people are physically. So that you don't physically pull out and put your cards on, please insert your cards again. 135 MPs are present. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192, 201, 202. The Rules of Procedure proposed to carry out a joint principled single search on the Proposal for the Law on Foreigners, the Proposal for a Law on Asylum and Temporary Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Border Control, the Proposal for a Law on Records and Processing of Data in the Interior, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the National DNA Register, the Proposal for a Act on the Law on the Law on Civilian Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Security and Transport of the Act on the Law of the Act of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Act on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law on the European Union, the Law on the Treaty on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law, the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Protection of the Protection of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -133, no one. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018, in general. This will end today's work. Resumption is tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall and that we have a condition for today's work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Djordje Vukadinovic and Momo Colakovic. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 18 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I invite you to attend today's session: Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Interior Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and Assistant Minister of Interior Katarina Tomaševic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry Milica Ćatić, Director of Police Vladimir Rebić, Milan Andrić of the Police Directorate, Marko Milivojevic of the National Criminal and Technical Centre, Zorica Vulić, Emilia Joksic and Zoran Veskovic of the Border Police Administration, Nebojsa Arsov's Head of the Department of Transport Police, Zorica Loncar Kasalica, Head of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Natasa Raketić and Mileva Zenović - Karasic from the Secretariat of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior and Jelena Puač, legal adviser to the normatic affairs at the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior. The Law on Gender Equality at the Ministry of the Interior is absolutely implemented and respected and thank you on the eve of International Women's Day for that, Minister. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 180. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Foreigners, Proposal for a Law on Asylum and Temporary Protection, Proposal for a Law on Border Control, Proposal for a Law on Records and Processing of Data in Internal Affairs, Proposal for a Law on National DNA Register, Proposal for a Law on the Single National Number of Citizens, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Civility of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security of Transport on Roads, Proposal for a Law on Roads, Proposal for a Law on Changes of the Law between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Belgium on the Law on Police Cooperation of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Amendment between the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for the Law on the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Serbia's's's and the Republic of Serbia's Convention, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia's Convention, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
