ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43930	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dusko Tarbuk and Ivan Kostic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government are invited to attend the session: Bojana Stanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs; Jelena Tanasković and Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Zoran Milosevic, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs and Dragana Kalinović, Director of the Republic Fund for PIO. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43931	This law is in many of its provisions, amendments and additions to this law, Mr. Minister, contrary to the Constitution and due to lack of time, I will potential several members of the Constitution, primarily Article 20, which in its 2nd position says that every kind of discrimination is prohibited. There is no Mrs. Kalinovic, but you certainly know that, before they begin to exercise their pension right, the pensioners had to get a solution to how high their pension is. As the 2014 Law was absolutely the opposite of the Constitution, so is this, because it brings pensioners into suspense. Retirement is not only acquired, but the kind of property that is also guaranteed by the Constitution and Article 21, and no one has the right, Mr. Minister, to play with no one's property. You, in this way, so for four years, you've reduced your assets to pensioners, you're putting into suspense the amount of their assets, because you're saying that if the state has economic opportunities, you're going to increase pensions and that's in line with the economic growth that you're showing through statistical data. This is also contrary to the European Social Security Charter, which was violated in 2014. This also brings each of the pensioners into this kind of social uncertainty, because they cannot know in the future whether the prices of the costs to a small extent, which are now in the retirement range, will grow so much that they will not be able to cover, as they cannot now, their basic needs of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43932	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43933	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, retirement is not a matter of anyone's will, the pension system knows how much they are who and how long they've been paying their contributions. The government's plan is to raise pensions by a percentage or two to those with the lowest pensions compared to those with higher pensions and so on until they get closer. In this way, I think he wants to touch the poorest layer, which is the most numerous, not to protect them. If he wanted to protect them, then the lowest guaranteed pension would be defined. In this way, the payment of the contribution towards the salary is fully devised, so that now every employer will pay less. Now that the pension is determined by the prime minister, no businessman has the motive to pay more than minimum wagers. What happens when the PIO fund is empty and dry? This is how animosity is created among pensioners, and everyone will be denied the absence of a legal mechanism. I think this smoke bomb caused temporary joy. When the smoke breaks up and this whole thing works, the people will realize he's been deceived again. So pensions will now depend solely on the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not on laws and figures. Gentlemen Ministers and fellow MPs, I wish I was wrong, but time will show that, as many times, Serbian radicals have warned and were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43934	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43935	Thank you. Article 2(1) The draft law amending and supplementing the PIO Act intends to amend Article 15 paragraph 3 of the basic law. Article 15 refers to persons not necessarily insured within the meaning of this Act, i.e. not beneficiaries of the right to pension and who may be included in compulsory insurance, and Article 3 of this Article refers to the termination of the characteristics of such insurance undertakings. We of the SRS parliamentary group have tabled an amendment that we have proposed to make certain changes. We have proposed by amendment that in the text of a law which I hope will be adopted instead of words – six months, it says – two months. We believe that this amendment of ours should be accepted because we have proposed a more appropriate deadline. The proposer stated that this provision was introduced into the law in order to eliminate the problems arising from the untimely check-outs of insurance who acquired this property by excluding compulsory insurance in accordance with Article 15 of the Law and to avoid the establishment of debts resulting from that basis by the name of paid contributions for pension and disability insurance. For this very reason, this amendment has been submitted because it will incomparably result in fewer debts over a period of two months than it would have been in a six-month period. The fact is, in practice, there is a significant number of people who face problems because of their debt to non-payment of contributions. We believe that the adoption of this amendment of the SRS would be prevented in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43936	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43937	Thank you, Chairman. The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted, in fact, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law, which actually complements or partially amends Article 15 of the basic law, which regulates the deadlines when it terminates the capacity of the insurance company to those persons who are not in the mandatory social security system. The bill provides for that deadline to be six months, and I have proposed that we extend that deadline to 12 months, because those persons who wish and are not already in the mandatory retirement insurance system should have some appropriate deadline, and I believe that a 12 month period is sufficient for those obligations to be made on the basis of the pension insurance they are due within that deadline. Just one more question or give me a Mr. Minister if he can tell me whether this deadline in the bill is given in six months, whether it will also apply to independent entrepreneurs who close the shop, and then within a period of six months, they want to re-apply to pension insurance, whether the deadline applies to them. Unfortunately, we are witnesses under which conditions today entrepreneurs are working, mostly very difficult market conditions and whether they will have that deadline, and I suggest that it be 12 months, and you suggest it be six months. Speaking of this bill, with this amendment, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you, we are here on the third day to discuss amendments to the Law on PIO, and unfortunately we have only changed the amendments to the title of the law, to Article 1 and we have started Article 2. I'm afraid all the time we're going to waste on Article 2 and the key law, or the members of this bill, will not be amended at all to explain themselves. If we continue to do so in the future, we will all submit amendments only to the title of the law and to Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43938	My colleague Gajic, I cannot influence how fellow MPs will submit amendments, but I remember very well the period when the chairman of your political party, who allowed the entire parliamentary group to submit only one amendment, to one member of the law, and you asked me to return those times. Those times are over. (Gorica Gajic: So let's change what's wrong. That is exactly what we have done, so every MP has the right to submit an amendment independently of his fellow MPs, so we do. We create democracy unlike those who have only a democratic party in their name, and have prevented me from submitting amendments as an MP. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43939	I thank you for asking. For the sake of clarification and for the sake of pensioners of the present and future, it means that everyone has the right to terminate and whenever they start to re-pay, they will begin to be granted that right again. We put six months in order to reduce the administration and the records that the PIO is now running, because we have a large number of people who don't pay, and now as per your proposal, if it were 12 months, we would give a deadline for someone to change their mind and say yes, I want to pay or not. We think it's a realistic and reasonable six-month term, and unless he pays six months to say that he's the last one to be paid. If he starts paying that day, of course, he'll start recalculating and adding to that internship he had until then.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43940	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43941	Thank you. My amendment refers to the erasure of Article 2(2) of this bill. It is good that you abolish this law on temporary pension cuts, but I have one reserve that is not only my personal dilemma, which is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has well assessed the economic scope of this measure, so it does not happen that in six months or a year we have some restrictions again, which would have unspeakable consequences for PIO. We need to be aware that the lives of millions of people are being broken in this area. Retirement is an economic and social category but also the right of each of the 1,700,000 pensioners, and it is good that, with favourable circumstances, you abolish this law from 2014. As something we particularly insist on, we MPs of the SRS, it's that relationship, i.e. The difference between the minimum and maximum amount of pensions reduces and evens, as in fact, the economic and social division of Serbian society is seen at the same time. I have to agree with my colleague, Marijan Risticevic, who usually says to himself that he is a farmer, I would say an intellectual of the agricultural type, which is also that farmers have the right to a decent pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43942	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43943	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking for five days at this session of the National Assembly, and we've heard here several times thanks to the pensioners for cutting their pensions, because they agreed to it to make us feel better. I will have to remind you of an exhibition at a meeting where most MPs here were present at the time, which is when the president of the current Republic said before the 2014 elections in the country hall "Pinky". He says so - Better off our backs than touch acquired pensioners' rights. With representatives of international institutions, I said that savings can be made in the budget through a reduction in the number of official travels or cars, a reduction in public sector wages of more than 60,000 dinars, but that savings cannot be made in the area of pensions. I don't let pensions touch, if we touched those rights, we wouldn't make a problem just for the pensioners, but also for the state. Now I guess the current government is trying to solve this problem that has been made, but we haven't seen for these more than six years the SNS authorities do something about what Vukic said, which could be interpreted – better off from our hump to get off on people who are functioners and some who are placed in places that have fabulously large salaries. I will make a few concrete proposals regarding savings in the public sector and in the budget of the Republic of Serbia so that you will no longer be in the situation, and by this law, when it comes to effect, you will be able to agree at the cabinet's session immediately on the level of pension and the fate of pensioners, you won't even have to come to the Assembly. First of all, you have the salary of the governor of the National Bank, which is more than 5,000 euros. Is it normal for the governor's salary to be 5,000 euros in Serbia, where the average salary is below 400 euros? You have the salary of the Manchester, which is about the same height, maybe a hundred less, while the salaries of judges, ministers and MPs are four or five times less than those salaries. You have abnormal charges for the non-governmental sector. Look out, the government's funding of the NGO sector. It's a contradictio and an Adjective. How can an NGO finance itself from the government? But instead of taking account of it, it's not the biggest problem that these NGOs are funding from our budget alone, much more money comes from other states and foreign governments' budgets, but how does this cost be explained? Why are the funds dedicated to that purpose? I'll quote Alexander Wolfie again. He says pensions are rights acquired and I won't let anyone touch them. You know, when you hurt someone's right, a way to protect that right any man can get a lawsuit in court. What will happen to our reforms, to our austerity measures, to our fiscal consolidation if pensioners decide no longer to believe such pre-election promises and go into the protection of their rights in court, to return to them what was taken from them? So what will our growth and our reforms and our economy, which we've heard now, be second in Europe, look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43944	The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. Does anyone want a word? Fellow Member Nikolic Vukajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43945	Thank you. The way you want to save the pension fund is really embarrassing for this country and for this country and for the president himself, and for all of us. Why? Because everything you had to do and what the government was supposed to do, she didn't. This means that if the Minister of Agriculture had done his job, he would have raised agriculture and we would have had a great share in GDP from agriculture; if the Minister of Local Self-Government had done his job, he could have done a lot of things to prevent local self-government theft; if the Minister of Business had done his job, he could have done a lot of things in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that your co-ordination bodies were doing their job, I mean, above all, the Council on Combating Corruption, we wouldn't have lost a billion euros a year, and that you as a government were doing, of course, not to come up with this shameful way of harmonising pensions, i.e. the lack of pension increases from now on. These two ministers sitting here are at least to blame, because the minister of social giving and social policy, of course, couldn't affect GDP growth, but only a man is there to properly distribute what he has. So, this government, if it's absolutely incompetent, absolutely unprofessional and all the ministers in it, honoring exceptions, should wonder what they're actually doing. The only thing you know is that you're waiting for Alexander Vukic to bring any kind of company out there, to try any way to supplement that pension fund, and you're kind of bragging about it and to defend him in a very unprofessional way all this time. If I were him, I'd say – thank you very much, don't defend me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43946	The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43947	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in the context of a comprehensive debate that we have had the opportunity to hear these days about the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance, we have heard also the reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, resulting from the need to further edit the pension and disability insurance system, and in the context of the reform of this system. Thanks to the efficient economy and the stability of all monetary policy parameters, such as the third-year surplus, inflation below 2%, reduced public debt, a decrease in unemployment below 12%, which is a historic minimum in the last 25 years, we are now in a position to further reform the pension system and allow our oldest citizens to increase pensions. For such good economic results and indicators, the government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, is the most grateful pensioners who have borne the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation and the necessary restrictive measures and reforms. The main objective of the reform of this system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners, which we did not have in the previous period. An unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners and the constant trend in the deterioration of this relationship has led to deficits in the business of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, and an increase in pensions has been an instrument in the Democratic Party's pre-election games, which has thus seriously threatened and devastated the budget of the Republic of Serbia, leaving the pensions uncertain, but also the salary. The previous system was not adapted to the changes in the demographic movement of society and was exaggerated in relation to the economic possibilities of the state, to the greatest extent this refers to the overly and unwarranted rights of disability pension, resulting in the monster we also faced in the previous period, and inherited as a burning problem, which is corruption in health. In order to find a solution to achieve regularity within the system, but also the sustainability itself, it required more restrictive amendments to the law in 2014. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Christmas.) ) The restrictive nature of the law was necessary because it was an integral part of the package of financial consolidation measures that gave positive results. Furthermore, until the financial sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system is achieved, pensions will be harmonised according to the rules governing the budget... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43948	The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43949	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act to further define the text of this member, but I have put a special accent on what is today in Serbia reality, which is economic stability, consolidated finance and a stable model of sustainable pension financing that we are planning today. What is planned today is certainly possible from real resources and real revenue because we have achieved this on the basis of savings and on the basis of reforms and responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has led to savings and plans which, of course, are in line with the results achieved. The stability policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS has led us to be a stable country now, a favourable investment destination that has sent a clear message to investors that a suitable situation is here and that we are ready for the development and recovery of our economy, which has been destroyed years ago and is now recovering. If we are talking about results, the figures do not lie, clear indicators are if we look at 2008 that then the deficit in the budget was minus 47.5 billion, 2009 minus 92.6, 2010 minus 102.9 billion, 2011 minus 135.8, 2012 minus 213 and such a decline was up until 2013, minus 200.9 billion dinars, but in 2016 we are making one serious shift, we have minus 7.9 billion, then 2017 plus 33.9 billion. In 2018, we now record the result of plus 40 billion. These are all the results of a responsible and committed policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The savings that have been achieved have, of course, now led to us being able to plan on realistic grounds to increase pensions and simply that those who have suffered the greatest burden of reform and savings have now finally felt the improvement and the increase of their incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43950	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Mitchin, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43951	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO, which will be abolished by the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction, which, as I was saying yesterday, we had to pass because of a very irresponsible policy of the yellow enterprise by 2012. Yesterday I also gave you information that you could hear that they planned the budget for years so that every time what they planned was broken and every time the budget was minus a few dozen billion dinars larger than what they planned. They then came into the situation that they had to take loans with as much as 7% interest, which is a huge difference compared to those of us who are now taking loans, and only when we have to, of 1% interest, because then they borrowed in dollars when no one was in debt in dollars, and that's why they made the situation so public debt increased by over eight billion euros. What we have today is a surplus in the budget constantly bigger, third year in a row. What we have is a situation that Serbia no longer has budget rebalancing. So, there is no budget rebalance, because the budget is very well planned. Economic growth is 4.6%, one of Europe's largest. Public debt is shrinking, while they, as I said, have increased public debt because Serbia, according to IBM, which is a world-renowned company, today the first country in the world, compared to the size of the country, by the number of job openings, because investments only until July of this year, foreign investment, were 916m euros and because today we are in the 42nd place on the Duing Business List of Easier Business, and we used to be in 93rd place. That's why today we have money to raise pensions. Dear pensioners, your pensions will only be bigger and bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43952	Thank you. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43953	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, there is no doubt that the SNS and our coalition partners will support this bill on amending the law, because I believe that we have achieved a certain financial stability and have confirmed that the 2014 decision of then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and then the Government was brave, visionary and have created conditions to create taxable income, an income from which we will be able to fill the funds and fill the budget. For the third year in a row, Serbia has a surplus in the budget. The conditions have been created to further increase pensions. As the state strengthens, pensions will also increase, not only pensions but public sector wages will also increase. Serbia has become interesting to foreign investors because of its political and financial stability. We're witnessing that a little bit, a little bit, so some cornerstone is laid somewhere or some factory opens up. So far, over 70 factories have been opened. As for direct investment, Serbia is among the top 15 countries in the world. The conditions have been created to reduce the migration, i.e. the internal migration of young people in search of work because now that they can find a job in their surroundings, in their neighborhood, they no longer have a desire to move to larger places. The unemployment rate's down. From 25.9%, it fell to 11.9%. Investment investments in infrastructure have increased. Special attention has been paid to reviving the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and has become more responsible for the country and agriculture. Simply, employment and the maximum exploitation of its own capacities have created a healthier and more serious environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43954	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Veljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43955	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is notable that displaced persons are one of the most sensitive social groups who, despite the declared principle of enjoying equal rights and freedoms under international and domestic law, as well as all others, have huge problems manifesting in almost all areas of life, from status issues, employment, education, health and social protection to resolving housing issues. In the area of pension payments over the past period, they suffered adverse consequences in terms of inability to receive full pensions. Namely, displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija receive pensions based on workbooks containing data on employment and pension contributions. If they do not have working books or there is an unscheduled record of paid contributions to earned earnings, which is the case due to known events in that space, the PIO Fund shall pay a transparently defined pension which is significantly less than the one it should actually receive. Also, victims of non-compliance with legal obligations were displaced, as former employers did not pay contributions to PIO. Now the displaced are unable to initiate proceedings against their former employers. These are all reasons why displaced persons without their own guilt cannot exercise the right to retire or receive unjustly reduced pensions. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO removes some of these problems, and they primarily refer to the lack of data on earnings, income fees and the basis of insurance for insurance and fairer means of resolving this issue. In this respect, I point out that the proposed amendments prescribe that, instead of the lowest base, these insurance companies are now subject to their average annual personal coefficient, as set out in Article 67. The law. In addition, this will refer to earlier users, who can address the Fund with a request for an amendment under this law within one year of the date of entry into force of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43956	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43957	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. My colleagues have discussed this beautifully and in detail these four days. All aspects of the affirmative law listed. On the other hand, in figures, the entire ambience in which the economy currently operates and Serbia's budget illustrated the same. I, as on Wednesday, would ask if the camera could show the other half of the hall, where the opposition MPs are, except for the MPs of the SRS, who sits neatly at all sessions. There are no other opposition MPs. In figures on the part where opposition MPs of other parties should be 62 MPs, and there is only one, and those 62 MPs should represent ten opposition parties. Now, they're not in their workplace first. So they get paid and they don't work. On the other hand, they are representatives of citizens who need to represent both their opinions or their views. They're not here. Dear citizens, consider these MPs and those parties who do not respect their jobs and do not respect your votes to represent you in this home, to consider in the next election who you vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43958	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43959	Mr. Veroljub Arsic, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. You would have to warn the ruling opposition about their behavior. The job of an MP isn't just sitting in this room. Just because someone's not there right now doesn't mean he's not worthy of the votes he's got from the citizens. In particular, this should not be said by MPs who a few days ago felt that the main committee of their party, i.e. a session of the main committee, was much more important than the debate in principle under this same law. In this way, the dignity of the congregation is offended. Another thing when there's power here when there's opposition? You guys here in the last few days are the most hit by these thieves who, you say, ruled until 2012. Well, you're talking about your coalition partners in the worst possible way. Now that you ask them, they were the opposition... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43960	Comrade Sarovic, I beg you, breach of the Rules of Procedure is a technical matter. Nemanja Sarovic: I want to explain. Don’t explain it to me because you first told me to warn my colleagues from “the ruling opposition. ” It doesn't exist. Don't explain it to me. There's no such thing in any theory. (Inemnja Sarovic: There is, I am just explaining, in practice there is. In practice, good. (Imanja Sarovic: What you don't understand is your problem. Yes, you're wrong because you want me to influence how fellow MPs... Nemanja Sarovic: Let me finish. You can't finish because you're out of the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. I can't identify who you were referring to when you said the MP of the ruling opposition, so I can't give you an explanation of why I did it, so I'm asking you now, do you want the Parliament in the day to vote to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? (Nemnja Sarovic: Please include to plead. Now you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43961	Mr. Arsic, first of all, I want the Assembly to declare the previous injury. You were obliged to turn on my microphone to plead. So, if you're asking me if I want to vote, you're obliged to allow me to plead. The only legitimate way to do that is to turn on the microphone and let me do it. You didn't do it. Second of all, Article 103 has been injured. Article 103 speaks of the right of MPs to point verbally at the violation of the Rules of Procedure. An MP who points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure has two minutes to explain what the injury is in, and only then do you have to give your reasons. I understand that in about 45 seconds, as far as I've had before, you haven't been able to figure out what this is about. That's why I'm trying to make all the MPs, including you, Mr. Arsic, understand. Someone's got 10 seconds, you're supposed to understand that during the debate. You're not. Someone figures it out in 10 seconds, someone in a minute, somebody takes two. So when I said "the ruling opposition", I didn't make a lapus, because when you perform in public you act as an opposition, when you talk about the previous period you act as an opposition. Only when you come here, then the ministers are strong, then they come as power and that's the difference. So, when you talk about thieves who ruled until 2012, these are the thieves you've received in your ranks from the DS, they're your respected coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43962	Comrade Sarovic, it's 10 o'clock and 51 minutes now. In these ten minutes, as long as you're in the O.R., you've managed to even notice twice that I've broken the Rules of Procedure. (I Nemanja Sarovic: I am noticeable of nature. You are noticeable of nature, and 11 minutes ago you entered the O.R., and of those 11 minutes you were in the O.R., you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure for five minutes. It is obvious that apart from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have no other way of expressing your political position. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead on the injured Rules of Procedure? (Nemnja Sarovic: You are obliged to allow me to plead. From the scene, Mr. Sarovic, without turning on the microphone. That's enough head nod. Oh, no? All right, thanks. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Nemnja Sarovic: You will now see how the session is conducted. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43963	You'll ask for Arsic's return. Ambassador Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43964	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is amended in Article 15. I propose adding a new Article 4 that reads – the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a particular reference to the improvement of the private sector. When we're looking for reasons to pass this law, we need to determine the basic goals ahead of it. The need to regulate the pension and disability insurance system is a long-term and permanent solution. It is necessary to obtain all legal and social guarantees and to ensure that this system works for many generations to come. Today, when we look at public finances and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we can see harmony, progress and order. We can see that the economy is the one that makes a big contribution. This means that the stronger the economy, the bigger the budget, and therefore economic stability. Our country has been recording historical results in recent years and is one of the countries with the fastest development in Europe and beyond. This government opens up factories, builds roads to reconstruct schools, kindergartens, and hospitals. When sound foundations lay the foundations of budget planning, when domestic business and finance management are done, investment in socially beneficial things immediately takes place. This law is proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, keep their word and keep their promises and that is why today the proposal here is to abolish the Law on the temporary way of paying off pensions and thus end pension cuts for our pensioners. This is the result of responsible policy, it is an indicator of how public goods should be managed. I am very happy, the results of the reforms are visible and I am convinced that this is just the beginning of the great economic and economic recovery of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43965	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43966	I thank the president. On the draft law, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 in the sense of adding a new position on the 4th -- the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the rule of law. Thanks to the responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian budget has been consolidated and since 2015 is always in the positive, i.e. the third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Such a policy allowed the state to change its attitude towards the Pcinj County and Vranj as its seat. In Vranje, however, many serious projects are being implemented today with the help of the state. Thus, with the help and support of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure in the past 2017, a pipeline of raw water was built from the Prvonek dam in Vranjska Banja in the length of four kilometers. Then, three collectors of fecal sewerage in the city itself, and asbestos pipes in the length of more than 17 kilometers were replaced. In addition to this, two other very important projects of more than 14.3m euros began to be realised in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43967	Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? (No) Alexandera Mike submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43968	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with my associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. Since the Law on PIO was passed, he has suffered several changes and all these changes and additions have been mostly restrictive. In some past period, we witnessed the need to raise the age limit for retirement, to strengthen the conditions for the exercise of the disability pension rights, but to strengthen the conditions for the family pension and to bring in other restrictive measures, above all because it was necessary. Due to the successful measures implemented, which were also an integral part of the financial consolidation package, because of savings, because of new investments, but also because of new employment, we today have amendments and additions to laws that have no restrictive provision. It is certain that the amendment of this law, primarily due to the reduction of bureaucracy in the handling of the PIO Fund, will reduce the time that citizens will spend on counters and in contact, both with the PIO Fund and with other institutions in the local self-government that is working with them, but what affects is that the largest number of our citizens are concerned, that October pensions with payments from November will be increased by 8.3 to 13.2% depending on the pension level and that these will be touched by about a million and 750 thousand pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43969	Radmilo Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43970	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and the objective of my amendment is to protect particularly sensitive, especially vulnerable groups. Thanks to the responsible, hardworking and dedicated work of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has achieved excellent economic results all over the world in the last three years. In economic growth, for the last eight months, which is 4.9%, we are the second country in Europe, right after Poland. Serbia is a working and building country. This is seen by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And, thanks to the improvement of their standards, thanks to increased employment, they in a democratic way, in all elections, started in 2012, provide huge support to Alexander Vukic and SNS. This year, August 24th, the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, together with Minister Djordjevic, visited the Gerontological Centre on Bezanjska Kosa, otherwise the largest institution in the area of social protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On that occasion, in an open and cordial conversation with pensioners, the President of the Republic thanked them for their sacrifice and their faith in a good result. He also told them that all pensions will be increased since October of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43971	The second amendment was submitted by LJibuška Lakatoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43972	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the proposed Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act provides legal certainty and the social situation of the current, but also future pensioners and creates conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system. This law has suffered many changes, and the last amendment to this law, which was implemented in 2014, was a restrictive character. Many workers were out of work in Serbia between 2000 and 2014, and many businesses were closed. The situation resulted in the number of insurance and pensioners almost being leveled, which was unsustainable and inevitably leading to bankruptcy. It was not easy to make a decision to cut pensions, as one of the measures of fiscal consolidation, but with the government's responsible policy, by bringing many foreign investors, by opening new jobs, by increasing the number of employees, Serbia has become a financially stable state, leading to the possibility of increasing pensions and salaries. Our country has also become an economic and political leader in the region. Restrictive measures, which were necessary, have led to the consolidation of the budget and long-term financial stability. With financial stability, GDP growth, more investment is also possible in the education system, in building schools, investing in the future of young people, which will certainly have a positive impact on Serbia's overall development. I call on my colleagues to support the Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance in the voting day, which provides a better position for all pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43973	Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ana Karadzic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Vladimir Orlic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43974	Thank you. In the spirit of the discussions that SNS MPs presented today, the fact is that thanks to the good results on the economic plan, thanks to a good relationship with investments that have been made possible and a stable political environment, but also a significant contribution to the stability of the region, which the Republic of Serbia has given, thanks to a responsible relationship with the needs to look after economic opportunities, we are indeed in a situation to talk about such a legal solution, we are in a position to make pensions greater than ever for all categories of pensioners. And it's a fact of fact and it's a condition that's going to reflect very clearly on home budgets since next month. That, of course, is not all. Thanks to this good and responsible relationship, the Republic of Serbia has managed to achieve other good results that are directly reflected in citizens' standards. I am also talking about the average salary, which is actually bigger than by 2012, and there are significant differences, and these are no longer compatible with the media that are in favor of this tycoon-hoof coalition of Dragan Gilas, with all their Latvian accessories. So these are numbers and the numbers are inexorable. We've also managed to increase the minimum profit several times over the last three years. With new increases in minimum earnings, it will be bigger again than ever. If you look at those indicators that describe how all of this affects the standard, you'll find that the ratio of the average profit to the minimum and the average consumer basket feels better than in their time. You will also find that the minimum profit ratio towards the average, or minimum consumer basket, is again better than ever, feeling better than it was possible to imagine by 2012. Those who don't look forward to these good results. They've limited themselves to people because they don't want to be honest, they just don't appreciate it. They've shown they can't compete with these good things. They showed that the reality of the cruel and ugly, which they offered, was only turning Serbia into a sad DOS palanka and nothing better than they never knew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43975	Milovan Krivokapic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43976	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, co-workers and colleagues, I have submitted Amendment 2 to Article 2 of this law, which adds attitude 4, which improves the development of the Serbian state and creates conditions for the economic stability of municipalities. The first thing I'm going to point out is the fact that the basic objective of reforming the pension and disability insurance system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. In this respect, measures have been taken in the previous period to reform the adaptation of the system to these circumstances and the measures taken have yielded positive results, which are primarily seen through the halting of deficit growth and the reduction of grants to cover deficits from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In addition to the measures taken, the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and new employment, which improves the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners, which we do and, most importantly, we succeed. We followed the effects of the last adoption of the law, which was restrictive, because it was necessary at that time and its restrictiveness is seen through the measures of fiscal consolidation, which gave positive results. It was these positive results that gave us the opportunity to continue planning changes and additions to the law, which is what we do, because, among other things, we create conditions for a more efficient work of pension administration. Everything we do, we do for future generations, to make the state stronger and to make everyone better, and not just for our own personal interest and present state, as the previous government did. In this context, it is necessary to continue to apply the measures in order to achieve the objective together, and this is the financial sustainability of the PIO system on the one hand and the long-term preservation of the results already achieved on the other hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43977	Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Member Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43978	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, respected pensioners, this amendment further defines Article 2 of this Law. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO will repeal the Pension Reduction Act on 30 September 2018. The bill also provides a legal basis for the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay the increased amount of pensions, depending on the economic movement and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, by establishing that the funds for these purposes cannot be greater than 0.3% of GDP per year. The key reason for the adoption of the rebalancing of the PIO Fund's financial plan is the abolition of the Interim Pensions Regulation, as a higher amount is needed for the payment of net pensions. Our oldest citizens, our pensioners are the most responsible for creating the basic conditions for implementing the necessary economic reforms our government had to implement and thanks to them we now have stable public finances. That's what future young generations will be very grateful for. Thanks to the government's responsible policy of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, the Nis Clinical Centre has been completed. The first clinical centre ever finished cost about 50m euros. The helipad is now ending. Serbia's Clinical Centre will be built, then the Novi Sad Clinical Centre, then the Kragujevac Clinical Centre. There is a significant increase in salaries for nurses and doctors, because we have a surplus in the budget three years in a row, because we are one of the three fastest growing economies in Europe. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for these laws in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43979	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was filed by Tijana Davidovci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43980	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have been able to hear numerous proposals and suggestions from individual MPs from the opposition in recent days on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is on the agenda. We could hear them now fighting for the rights of our oldest citizens and bringing out some laws and proposals, now that they've stabilized public finances, now that the economy has started to recover gradually and when we have GDP growth of 4.9% thanks to the development of the economy, not by selling state property, now that our unemployment is 1.9%, now that investments in the first six months are 1.4 billion euros, which is 15.6% more than in the previous year, now that Serbia is recognizable in the world and when we have salary growth, now that the minimum working hours have been increased to 155 dinar, when we have a stable exchange rate of the euro for years, now, when inflation has never been less, and that I don't count more positive results from when it comes to power, with President Aleksandr Vukic. All of this has been achieved because our citizens have recognized who is really working for them and is leading a responsible policy, and who is just telling empty stories. Our oldest citizens have greatly contributed to achieving these results, and we have promised that the Interim Retirement Law will be abolished when the Republic Fund is stabilised for pension and disability insurance and, as you can see, SNS keeps its promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43981	Thank you, colleague of David's. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43982	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, that this government and all our ministries care about all categories of the population have confirmed that by adopting and proposing this law, as well as by dispensing funds for treatment abroad, both children and adults, from 600 million dinars. In fact, I must remind our citizens first of all that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as prime minister in 2014, has brought the initiative to establish a budget fund for the treatment of disease, condition or injury that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, so, here, once again, we show that the concern for our citizens is our primary goal and that this is our policy and probably why our citizens recognize it and give us huge support, which we have from day to day and which is growing. I would also remind myself that the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in previous days have agreed a protocol on co-operation, where, when it comes to emergency situations and sending patients to treatment abroad, two planes are provided to provide both faster, better quality and better transport, in order to save valuable time, especially when it comes to our youngest residents. So, taking care of the kids really comes first. Those who are full of the mouth of that previous day to take care of maternity, pregnant women, and here's how much they care about the citizens of Serbia and how important it is to them that we are discussing pension increases today, I would remind them that we have just passed laws that introduce a new right to compensation based on the birth, care and special care of the child, not them. They've been drawing funds, bringing our country to bankruptcy, and they've shown how worried they are. So I ask them to disappear from the political scene, because they've shown how incapable they are of anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43983	Thank you, colleague Barisic. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43984	Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which amends Article 15. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, paragraph 4, reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation." We said, and it is known to everyone, that the money pensioners receive as an increase will be re-emerged into the Republic of Serbia and will partly return to the budget to affect its stabilisation. In order to get to this increase, much had to be done to reduce unemployment, which was large, to bring investors, which is not easy at all when you don't even have an infrastructure that is appropriate and that bothers them more to come and invest here. Thanks to the government led by the current President Vukic, as well as the current government, and ministers who do their job well, they push for even better results, we can now increase pensions. I hope, in the coming period, as the country develops and more investors come, because, as the president said, many more places are waiting for infrastructure and investors to come and work, first of all, young people so as not to leave the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43985	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43986	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO which is being amended in Article 15. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, adding a new position, reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on strengthening and improving the judicial system." Article 15 of the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act stipulates that persons not necessarily insured within the meaning of this Act, or not beneficiaries of the pension right, may be included in compulsory insurance and ensure the rights provided for in this Insurance on terms, in scope and in the manner provided for in this Act. The capacity of the insurance undertaking referred to in Article 1 shall be obtained on the day of submission of the request, and exclusively at the request of the person, at the earliest 30 days prior to the submission of the application. The proposed provision of Article 2. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, eliminates the problems arising from the untimely withdrawal of insurance undertakings which have acquired, in that capacity, inclusion in compulsory insurance pursuant to Article 15 of the applicable law, the establishment of debts arising under that scheme and the name of the contributions not paid to the PIO. The existing provisions shall be completed in such a way that in this case the property of the insurance undertaking ceases on the day for which the person in the application is defined or if the contribution is not paid within six months of the day of maturity and at the earliest with the last day for which the contribution is paid. These, as well as other amendments and additions to the law, stemmed from the need for further arrangement of the PIO system, and all under the start of reform of this system in 2002. This reform creates conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, while ensuring legal certainty and the proper social position of all pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43987	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43988	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, distinguished colleagues, before I say anything about the amendment, I would especially like to make my impression about the debate on this legislative proposal. I think it is a special pleasure and honor to bring the good news to the citizens of Serbia, and especially to those who have sacrificed their own personal incomes, to bear the burden of stabilising the state. We should be proud to be part of successful reforms and to contribute as MPs to raising the country from the bottom of bankruptcy. In addition to the pensioners, the president of the state, besides the government, who have borne a special burden and who have done their utmost to strengthen financial power from the country and we have our part by voting for the laws, and whether they support or criticise legal proposals, I think we need to have a sense of total satisfaction. Is it possible that the outbreak of the opposition's last quasi argument, by which the right is somehow denied, is the only reason to oppose this law and not admit the generally known thing that this is a success that respects the whole world? The state of Serbia pays out its obligations from real sources and responsible policy is a filled state register, which is the only truth that cannot be denied. The amendment I have proposed aims to draw attention to culture, because any improvement in living conditions, standards should also improve the quality of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43989	Thank you, colleague Krlic. Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43990	Mr. Chairman and gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by abolishing the Law on the Temporary Editing Way of Pensions Retirement, pension levels are returning to the level without a reduction, which is the result of positive economic movements. This allows pensioners who have suffered the greatest burden of the fiscal consolidation process to benefit from improving the situation in the economy. Amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO aims to further define this Member of the Law. In Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO eliminates the problems arising from the untimely withdrawal of insurance undertakings which have acquired this property through inclusion in compulsory social security pursuant to Article 15 of the Law and avoids the establishment of debt on that basis. Namely, unpaid contributions for PIO, which means that the person loses the security property on the day the person is defined in the application or if the contribution does not pay within six months of the day of maturity. I would like to point out that the proposed provision of the law applies to the users found, on the basis of the above, and to insurance companies which are entitled to extended insurance. For all insurance companies, the Fund will, under its official duty, make a decision on the termination of the property of the insurance company within one year from the date of entry into force of this law i.e. will be obliged to amend the solution within the specified time limit. I call on my fellow Members to support the amendment and amendment of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43991	Thank you. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43992	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the pension system of the Republic of Serbia, is now in a far better position and condition than, say, five years ago. According to official data, in 2014, the name of the grant to cover the expenditure of RF PIO. 222.4 million dinars were transferred from the budget, about 37.2% of total income and 5.7% of GDP. The increase of the Fund's original income from the PIO's contributions primarily comes from the fact that the number of employees has been increased, that there is unconditionally a fight against the grey economy, which certainly results in a better situation, both in the RF PIO's budget and in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It should not be forgotten that at the time of the start of fiscal consolidation of public finances, pensions are predicted not to increase until pensions in GDP fall below 11%, which is approximately the value of that 2004 parameter. There were forecasts that an increase in pensions would not occur by 2020, however, the good results of fiscal consolidation led to the increase in pensions, though as much as the economic development allowed, but in December 2017, pensions increased 5%. The good results resulting from the work of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and other bodies, but also the RF PIO are best viewed in the fact that in 2004, around 13% less pensions were paid out of the Republic Fund's budget than now, so that the real challenge, although there was an increase in the obligation to pay out of the pension system, is a stable pension system as it is now, fully recovered and stabilised in the previous five years, will continue to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43993	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43994	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of our ruling SNS and coalitions and a small number of oppositions who are here today, the ones who had the most objections to the set of laws that are on the agenda today, are not here to discuss with us, are not here to say anything concrete, we have not heard any concrete remarks about the laws we have filed, especially because it is impossible to make a concrete comment on the real increase in pensions, on the better life that follows our pensioners, on the better life they hope for and who will welcome for some month and employees in the public sector. So, all those who were patient, who had faith in the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS. Today, for sure and certain, I can say that they will have the first increase in pensions, if we adopt, and I am confident that we will, and already in November on their accounts, will have more money than they had before, more opportunities to process their grandchildren and their children, more opportunities to live better and more quality than it was in the past, but not on glass feet, but on solid feet, because today we have strong foundations, a strong state, a serious state that does not increase wages and pensions by borrowing on expensive and green interest at 7, 8 and 9%, so someone else returns. This is a country that is serious, which is responsible for its oldest citizens and its future, and that is why I am convinced that even citizens see it all well, feel it, and will know that when the time comes, all of it adequately and evaluates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43995	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43996	The Honorable Vice-President, this law and the amendment tabled will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which also contributes to education and education, especially patriotic education. Had Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in his attempt, possessed a patriotic education, would not have been at the International Conference in Vienna in October 2003, when he was Prime Minister, I quote, "It is completely irrelevant to me whose Kosovo and Metohija is," the quote concluded. His attitude is the same today. When our Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic takes a courageous and decisive step in finding a permanent, sustainable and compromise solution for the southern Serbian province, and his counterpart Nenad Canak, called Neso Vicoje, had a lack of patriotic education, as he said on March 5th 2017, I quote: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence," the quote concluded. And, Sasa Jankovic, called Sale Prangi, placed himself in the camp, quoting: "My platform is recognition of Kosovo's independence," finished the quote. That is why it is no wonder that his fellow academic, Dusan Teodorovic, said, I quote: "Never during my long career in the country and abroad has it occurred to me to make such a mistake in estimating the working skills, the moral code, like Sasa Jankovic's," the quote concluded. That is why, Vice President Milicevic, this amendment is extremely important so that no characters who possess a lack of patriotic education will appear in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43997	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43998	Thank you. I am not surprised by the opposition's views, as they are also tasked with criticising all the legal proposals of the position. But what I am looking forward to is the fact that in talking to citizens, especially the oldest citizens, pensioners, I have not encountered any who are disappointed with this bill, I have not encountered citizens who have something against this law. Now, it's not easy to make a stable pension payment possible unless we have a strong financial structure in the country. How are we going to secure that? Well, normally, as in all other countries, taxing. So I also welcome this amendment to the Law on PIO, where it is said, that those who do not pay regularly, that their internship should be interrupted if they do not rest within a year. I welcome this proposal, but I also suggest that more attention be paid to large debtors than to these small businesses, because they pay their contributions most often. It used to become one service, the Social Accounting Service, which did not allow anyone not to pay those contributions, but was primarily. First, contributions were paid for PIO and health insurance, and later payments were paid, etc. That is why I suggest that the Government also find such an option where it would be easier to determine how these contributions would be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u43999	Thank you. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44000	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 to explain how the overall development of the Republic of Serbia affects the reduction of social differences. Speaking of social differences, namely, the Republic of Serbia can be proud because between 2012 and 2018, thanks to the good policy of Mr. Alexander Vukic, our president, over 70 companies, over 150,000 people were employed. In this way, employment, and in a concrete case, as we are talking today about the PIO Fund, reducing, abolishing the law, paying taxes and contributions, reduce social differences. What does that mean? The number of pensioners and employment in Serbia has been almost even in recent years. According to the most recent data from the PIO Fund for 2017, this relationship was one-and-a-half. Thanks to this policy, thanks to employment, I'm sure in five to ten years this relationship will be one to three. In Serbia today, millions of 1,720,435 pensioners and 2,583,557 insurance workers live. What's very important and what needs to be pointed out is that four years ago we passed the Pension Reduction Act, because Serbia was really in front of bankruptcy, and that's not what I said, but the IMF. It was an extremely difficult decision for us. We have now decided to abolish this law and further increase pensions, although there are no elections ahead, that should be known. For weeks, we worked on it and decided to increase pensions from 8.8% to 13.3%, and pensioners in Serbia showed patience and faith and should therefore be rewarded. Not only that, these are the people who created everything in this Republic of Serbia, contributed to a better life and deserved extremely good things. So we, 13.3% will get all pensioners, millions of them. It should also be pointed out that 60% of pensions, that millions of people will get 13.3% increase, somebody's funny, it's living truth, and they'll never have more pensions in life, since inflation was just 1.5 to 2%. There's still a lot to talk about, but I don't have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44001	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44002	The respected chairman, respected ministers, co-workers from the ministry, fellow MPs, pensioners are very important for the Republic of Serbia and great efforts are being made to provide them with the best conditions. Today, almost two million pensioners live in Serbia, where the pensioner's and working age ratio, as my colleague said, is one and a half, given that 1,723,435 pensioners and 2,583,557 insurance workers were registered last year. We promised to abolish the Pension Reduction Act when the country is financially stabilised and we do it right, because we keep our promises. It's not a political move, it's a reality. The conditions have been met, as the republican finances are stable, fiscal consolidation has been implemented, and economic restructuring is under way and business environment has been significantly improved. Our President Vukic is a great statesman, although Serbia is a small country and by the number of inhabitants and spatially, but he is a great man in words and deeds. First of all, he, a great personal pawn, but everyone else who follows his policy, here I primarily think of our Prime Minister, our ministers, managed to attract a record number of foreign direct investment in 2017. In 2017, Serbia was listed as top 15 countries in Europe by foreign direct investment, and directly open more than 20,000 jobs. At the level of public debt, Serbia will be among the 10 countries with the lowest public debt in January 2019. That's what we need to talk about, not critics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44003	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44004	I thank the chairman. The main objective of the 2014 austerity and fiscal consolidation measure was the recovery of our public finances. The biggest problem we were facing back then was an extremely high budget deficit that was around 150 billion dinars in 2011 in 191.9 billion dinars. Such a public debt has put us in a position that we have to borrow abroad, to raise drastically our public debt, which in 2008 was about 29%, in 2012, already 60% with a growth trend, at one point, as you know, up to 78%. Today, our public debt fell to about 58% with a tendency to be below 50% in early 2019 which is an extremely serious result that even the greatest optimists did not expect and in this sense Serbia will be at the height of public debt among the most developed EU countries. As for the budget deficit, which I was talking about at the beginning, let's say, in 2017, we had a surplus of 33.9 billion dinars, which is almost two billion euros better than in 2012. For example, in 2012, the inflation rate was 12.2%, while the last three years have been moving somewhere between 1.2% and 3%. The value of our national currency is practically the same as it was in 2012, so no major declines. Such a public debt situation, first of all, we can thank the growth of our GDP, the growth of our economies, and all those who criticise the arrival of a large number of foreign investors, the opening of new jobs, should know that these foreign investors have primarily provided much more exports to our country, because they had their own market and the best example for this is "The Irons", where we saved 5,000 jobs, and today "The Irons" is one of the biggest exporters for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44005	Thank you, colleague Parezanovic. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. The word is from MP Vlado Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44006	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the pension system in Serbia is based on the principle of insurance. The last amendments and additions to the PIO Act were extremely restrictive, but this restriction was really necessary because it was an integral part of the fiscal consolidation package that gave positive results. These results also enabled the planning of further amendments and additions to the law, as its negative effects on certain groups of pensioners were observed in practice, as well as the need for more effective work of the pension administration. As a result, new amendments and additions to the Law are primarily related to changes in the way of calculating the amount of early retirement pension for insurance companies that are accounted for with an increased duration, etc. Beneficiary work experience, so that the foames are counted for each particular insurance undertaking in particular. All those who have the maximum degree of increase in internships, so-called 12/18, they must have at least two-thirds of the work experience carried out on jobs that can be undertaken under this category of increased working experience, with a maximum age limit of 50 years. Until the financial sustainability of the PIO system is achieved, pensions will be harmonised according to the rules governing the budget and the budgetary system. In order to reduce the number of temporary solutions, from now on, a pension solution will be issued before the end of the calendar year, and a three-year deadline for the duration of the temporary pension solution is introduced, in the event of the absence of all necessary documents and data for the adoption of the final solution. After three years, the PIO Fund will declare them final, and that means that there will no longer be pensioners for years, some even for the rest of their lives, taking checks after a temporary decision. There is also the authority of the Tax Administration to control the collection of social security contributions, so that pensioners will receive pensions in relation to the amount and length of the payment of contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44007	Thank you, colleague Granny. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44008	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, surely we would not be in a position today to talk about pensions and raise pensions that our President Aleksandar Vukic does not work permanently in opening new jobs and investing in our country. The witness of these words is certainly today opening a new factory in Nis, and tomorrow, in two days, our president opens two new factories in Nis, which is very important for southern Serbia. Today, the Austrian firm Cumtobel, a world leader in lighting production, will employ 350 workers, and will employ up to 1,000 workers over the next three to five years. Tomorrow, our president in Nis opens another Imi factory, a Filipino car parts company that has invested 30m euros in building 14,000-square buildings. They will employ around 1,500 workers, which is very important for southern Serbia, with 500 engineers who will have an average salary of about 1,000 euros. This is confirmation that our president has fulfilled everything he has promised, unlike the previous presidents who were only strong in words and weak in deeds. If they had stayed in power, the "yellow company", today would have been just a mental noun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44009	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44010	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the main objective of all changes to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is to adapt mandatory pension and disability insurance, as the most important part of the pension system, demographic change, primarily the process of ageing the population, economic circumstances, but also with the strategic determination of the state to establish a modern and efficient administration, i.e. The process of normative regulation of pension and disability insurance continues. Our oldest citizens, our pensioners have accepted the greatest burden of reform on our shoulders, so we are grateful to them today through changes and additions of this law we are returning pensions to the amount from 2014, with an increase of 9 to 13%, depending on the level of income. Those with the lowest incomes will get the biggest increase. The social position of the pensioner will be improved by the proposed possibility of a pension increase. This gives the legal possibility to increase total pensioners' income, in line with positive economic developments and financial opportunities of the Republic's budget, i.e. the Fund's. There is also the possibility that funds from the Fund can be extremely used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners and cash compensations to be determined by the Government. In order for our country's budget to be filled faster, and GDP to grow higher, new factories are needed, i.e. New jobs. Unlike the previous government that destroyed all the companies that worked in Loznica and the environment, thanks to our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, the US company Adient has already started working in Loznica, so far with about 200 workers, also the Chinese factory "Mint" has yet to start production. Both factories will employ 3,000 people, which will be a rebirth for Loznica and Podrinje. In this way, state policy is being held responsibly, seeking to develop evenly each region.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44011	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44012	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, to further define the member mentioned, all in order to highlight the importance and recognition of financial capacity in our country and for the purpose of realising infrastructure projects. As conditions have been created to increase pensions, to increase wages, as the budget for the third year in a row is recording the surplus, that the number of employees in our country is increasing, and all these results are being recorded because responsible policy, in line with the SNS programme, headed by President Aleksandr Vukic, gives excellent results. Today we can go free to face world leaders who recognize our country as a great investment destination. In the first six months of this year alone, 15% higher foreign investment growth was recorded compared to the same period of the same year, which is recorded as a record year on the issue. I would also add here that the bill defines that a simpler procedure relating to the application for pension, further networking of the system, a reduction in the number of necessary documents where the time for conducting the procedure is reduced and costs are therefore reduced, and this certainly contributes to a more efficient service for the citizens. Through the basic objective of passing this law, as well as through all the accompanying solutions that have been defined once again demonstrates a comprehensive responsibility and concern for the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44013	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44014	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today I want to address respected pensioners, tell them that for the third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, instead of deficits, we have a surplus. Thanks to you, respected pensioners, for the third year, as I said, we have a surplus in our budget. You knew we could get results through heavy measures. You opened the door to our country's future. Today, the dinar is solid, unemployment is less than 12%, we have economic growth and we are reducing public debt. We listened two days ago to how many MPs the opposition took care of us. Their concern is great, and one piece of information, respected citizens and citizens, will tell you how much they cared for their mothers during their time of government. When Mr. Gilas was mayor, he left a huge debt of 1 billion and 118m euros in 2013, 630 euros per head of every Belgrade citizen. Now I'm going to be taxing as much as it is in dinars. One-time money aid to socially endangered persons – 120 billion 660 million dinars, a salary debt during pregnancy leave – 388 billion and 921 million dinars, one-time cash donations to employed and unemployed maternity and pregnant women – six billion and 375 million dinars, subsidies for paying utility services of more than four billion dinars. So much for their moms.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44015	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44016	Article 32. Indeed, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, there is no longer a dilemma, we must conclude that the chairman of parliament is malicious compared to our parliamentary group. I don't know how many times I have to tell you individually, that you have to turn away, if the MPs don't either take care of it or don't distinguish some things or read what's written for them, so they don't look at who they see on this side, but the chairman has an obligation that when the MP says it - the opposition says it and there's no opposition, the opposition used to be like this or like that. You must stop for a moment and say – please, the opposition party of the SRS, second largest in parliament, the strongest opposition party is in parliament, working, participating. Whether you like it or not, that's your thing, that's the thing and the people's MPs who think differently, but you can't classify us among those who aren't really there, that we don't care who's here or who's not here, that's what we do, that's what we're interested in, that's what we're interested in, that's what we're interested in, that's what we're interested in, that's what citizens of Serbia are interested in, that's what we're interested in, that we're trying to do with our constructive objections, amendments, our discussions, our debates trying to influence both the ministers and the general majority, to sort out the laws so that all Serbian citizens can benefit from it. Please, for the sake of the public, you have to take care of it. You keep trying to distract the public that there are only these and only these and there are no more policies in Serbia. There is the most serious political party, the most consistent with the most serious programme, the SRS. (Serbian Filipovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44017	I heard you from my colleague Filipovic, just for a moment, since I am obliged to respond as chairman first, and I noticed when you and your colleague Markovic reported to the office. My colleague Radeta, I didn't want to interrupt my colleague's thoughts, because I would interrupt the meaning of what she wanted to say, and I really don't want to believe that what she was saying meant by the SRS. I fully understand your position and it is legitimately right for you to point out, because you do not want to be, which is completely understandable in the group of the opposition that we were just talking about. We've had several dialogues on this subject. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you, colleague Radeta. As far as I can tell, my colleagues have given up their apparitions on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I also thank my colleagues Filipovic and my colleagues Markovic for their understanding. We continue to discuss the amendments. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44018	Thank you, Chairman. When we say that new jobs are opening, some wonder why we're so potent about it and what's so important. However, the multiple effects they carry with them. Not only does it reduce the unemployment rate which is indeed the primary objective, but it affects the greater amount, the tax inflow that will be paid into the budget. Thus, it says that it will be safer and safer pensions and hopefully in the next period and their growth. What also made Zrenjanin, my fellow citizens, happy is that when the president of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic visited our town, and then China, not only comes one company that manufactures Shan-dong Ling-long Tyre tires, but another one that specializes in zinc production. It is a new 2,000 jobs for Zrenjanin, for Banat and of course for Serbia. Once again, I would like to thank the pensioners for their insistence and allow us to redefine our financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44019	I thank my colleague Janošević. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44020	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, the fact that at one point the Pensions Fund with almost 60% was touched from the budget was enough to see that this country was facing bankruptcy and that something had to be done, i.e. And the law of that time on the temporary reduction of pensions was certainly one of the most difficult decisions of the government, but today we see how well it was a good decision and, of course, gratitude to all people who had understanding and then when they pleaded, and they had more opportunities in the elections to make a statement about whether it was a smart decision. We can now turn the budget towards projects that create growth. I'm going to set an example of my community where we've provided from that growth, Ministers, when you visited Priboj and, of course, launched the whole initiative, and through the Public Investment Office, we have 407 million to reconstruct a secondary engineering school and a primary school in Priboj. Also, thank you for your great help and your associates in establishing a high school machine profession in a free industrial zone in Priboj. This is a unique example of a high school unit in an industrial zone where future students of manufacturing machinery will have dual education as in the palm of their hands. The prize has a free industrial zone that was formed thanks to the team of Alexander Vukic three years ago, and today works nearly 400 people, seven companies, and in the coming days we will sign an agreement with INMOLD from Požega, who is the champion of dual education in that part of Serbia and you will have enough of this company. So, if it hadn't been for that money through the Public Investment Office, we couldn't have established a new way in school, so it's an investment in a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44021	National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44022	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by supplementing this member with the position I have proposed, are further defining the draft of this law. The signing of a reconstruction and construction contract of the Clinical Centre of Serbia is another confirmation of the Serbian government's firm definition of investing in the construction of new, state-of-the-art hospitals, as well as the purchase of state-of-the-art medical appliances and equipment, with the employment and training of young doctors, that our health system is rapidly becoming the best quality in the region. In the first phase, the new 86,000 squares of space will be built. Serbia's clinical centre will receive a complete new emergency centre and diagnostics with twenty new operating halls and 500 hospital rooms. The contract also covers part of the second phase of work under which the construction of a new tower of 25,000 square meters was planned, as well as rehabilitation of a long-built 60,000 square squares floor along with all technical blocks, parking and traffic. The total value of the investment is around 110m euros, and soon the reconstruction of KC in Novi Sad and KC in Kragujevac begins. Also, the state has allocated more than 2m euros to equip KBC Zemun. For a new magnetic resonance apparatus set aside 685,000 euros, more than 300,000 euros for angila equipment, for an ultrasound apparatus 130,000 euros, and the completion of the works on the complete reconstruction of the facility is expected next year. The realisation of all these projects is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia is pursuing the overall development of the state and raising the standard of living of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44023	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44024	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, I would like to thank all the pensioners who had the understanding of their country when it was the hardest and the most difficult measures of savings to give our country and our children a better future. That is why we have managed to make the city of Leskovac an example of good practice in several areas, as the first city in Serbia to agree its defence plan with the plan of defence of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the second city by success in the list of illegally built buildings. Leskovac is also an example of good practice when it comes to social protection, which is why we are the second city in Serbia at the height of the dedicated funds defined by the Ministry of Labour by local self-government to improve and develop social protection services. One of the primary objectives of the task of the timbering local self-government is constant work to improve the quality of life of children. We have invested 75 million dinars in the renovation of educational institutions so far from the Leskovec city budget, and all to provide students with a warm classroom and a better place to learn. There is hardly a school in a city where there were no significant investments. In addition to the city, the new glamour was given to many schools in villages such as Pečevac, Cekmin, Drčevac, Gornji Krajinc. The new school was built in Svirac, of course, with the help of the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, at school for primary and secondary education, music school "11. October," the first sensory room in Leskovec was also equipped, and the pay for corrective exercises was built. The success of music school students is rewarded by local self-government every year by buying pianos. Five drunks have been bought so far in the last five years. The elementary school "Petar Tasic" in Leskovac and "Aca Sinadinović" in Predejan received new physical halls, and the construction of the hall at the "Vozd Karadjordje" school in Leskovac is under way. Six pitches for small sports were built, as well as 120 small and five large mobilisers so that woody young people and youth would have an adequate place to play and play sports, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44025	Thank you. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44026	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, submit an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the PIO Act shall be amended in Article 15. The bill by adding a new attitude 4 that encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to tax liability. The paper in the proposed amendments to the law is to change the way in which the amount of early retirement is calculated for those users who have an unfavourable working experience and who go into early retirement, so they are calculated so-called. Penalties due to a lack of years of life. Since 2019, they will be subject to a reduced age limit, not as general as before. After they have filled their full pension pension, they will not have penalty pens because they are younger, thus correcting the failures of the current pension account for this category of pensioners who have acquired their pensions by performing complex, responsible and difficult jobs. The proposed fairer calculation of the amount of early retirement for persons employed with a well-favoured working experience significantly reduces the employer's obligations to fill and deliver to the PIO Fund of various forms and provides greater legal certainty to pensioners. By abolishing the law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, this category of pensioners will receive a future pension check without a reduction, and the possibility of a pension increase is introduced. Taking into account the above, clear and unequivocal efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries to improve the position of us and our oldest citizens in line with the economic movements and possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, proposed amendments and additions. In Voting Day, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44027	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44028	Thank you, Chairman. The third lifetime carries with it one of the greatest changes in life, which is the end of the job and retirement. Animosity and ignorance of a new way of life are further compounded in the event that the waiting for the first pension is delayed and experience so far shows that future pensioners are precisely those who can speed up this process and remove all obstacles that cause the first pension to be delayed. The irresponsibility of employers, late payments of earnings and unpaid severances within the legally prescribed deadline are only some of the reasons why new pensioners sometimes wait longer for the first payment of the pension check. The difficult environment also includes incomplete data on insurance, late earnings and contributions to pension and disability insurance. All of these are reasons that affect the length of the proceedings and the decision to retire at the very beginning of the retirement period. In addition to pensions themselves, the pension solution is also necessary to regulate health insurance and health card, as well as obtaining a credit card with a discount for public city transport, the possibility of using checks, a discount for pensioners or borrowing from banks for favourable loans to pensioners. Future pensioners will receive time if they check their own standing and payment data in the home records available on the official PIO fund website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44029	Thank you. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44030	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. The main objective of the draft amending and supplementing the Law on PIO is to create long-term sustainability of the pension system and improve the situation of the current and future generations of pensioners. I would again point out that pensioners have just taken the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation since 2014 until today. Thanks to the responsible policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, pensions will be increased on average 8.8% to 13.2% from 2014 before the reduction. The adoption of amendments and additions to the existing law stems from the need to further edit and improve this area. The specificity of the pension system is certainly also the fact that it is directly dependent on demographic and economic flows in the country, i.e. the age structures of the population, migration movements, levels and quality of employment, the level of earnings, gross GDP growth. One of the important newspapers is a fairer calculation of the amount of temporary pensions for insured workers. Reductions in temporary pensions will be established in relation to the reduced age limit, not compared to the general age limit, as foreseen by the law so far. Furthermore, greater legal certainty for pensioners is being achieved. It reduces the employer's obligation to make different applications to the PIO Fund and the demarcation of competences is carried out. With that in mind, the objective of the proposed amendment has a positive effect on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44031	Thank you. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44032	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is good news for all pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, as October pensions will be increased by between 9% and 13%, and they will now be more than they were before the 2014 cut. I'll remind you of the following facts. Serbia was ahead of bankruptcy just four years ago. Public debt was 78% of GDP, now it is below 50%, and these are really good results from the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. From this point on, I would like to say that I really thank all pensioners in the Republic of Serbia who were truly patient, patient, but also understanding of all those austerity measures, measures of fiscal consolidation. We as a state today, as a society have something to hope for, we have a stable state, stable finance, and these are the results that the opposition can't really blame us for. In fact, pensioners are the group of our citizens who have opened the door to Serbia's future, have shown sacrifice and Serbia today is really recording good results, and when it comes to direct foreign investment in all of Southeast Europe, we are leaders today and when it comes to unemployment, for the first time in 25 years we have unemployment in Serbia that is below 12%. Our money is stable, inflation is really low, and economic growth records a significant leap, which is 4.9% today. I want as an SNS MP to tell all Serbian citizens that we will continue to reform our society, we will continue to reform our country and that the increase in wages and pensions is not just political will. We, indeed, now in our register in Serbia's budget, have the opportunity and the space to raise salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44033	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blaža the Prince. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44034	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, we were all witnesses to what it looks like when you have one robbery, boast and irresponsible authority, which brought Serbia to the brink of ambition and, in 12 years, managed to destroy almost everything in Serbia. Wise, courageous and determined moves were needed to save the state from bankruptcy, without misleading the people and above all telling them the truth, which is what Aleksandar Vukic did. It was a difficult way to recover, a great burden of economic recovery for Serbia was borne by our pensioners and we are all grateful to them because they realized how important this is for our country. Despite all Serbia's successes, despite Serbia being among the three fastest growing economies in Europe, some affected by hatred and personal frustration will not see and acknowledge the results that the state of Serbia is taking big steps towards even greater success. How else can they get up in the morning when they first hate themselves and everyone else in front of the mirror, and when they start dealing with some alleged policy, it's always hate policy and increasingly frequent calls for violence, or violent change of government in Serbia. Gentlemen, as long as the citizens of Serbia decide in the elections who they will trust, and so it will be because Serbia is the country in which the Constitution and the laws are respected, unlike your time, you have absolutely no chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44035	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dalibor Radčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44036	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, all with the aim of further defining the draft law. Article 2 shall amend and supplement Article 15. The PIO Act. This prevents the accumulation and determination of debts on behalf of outstanding contributions to PIO. A large number of citizens had a problem with unpaid contributions. He became aware of it only the moment he applied for retirement, when they found out they didn't have a full-time job. It is all the result of irresponsible authorities headed by Serbia. By destroying businesses and closing them, they brought a huge number of workers to the brink of existence, and so the destroyed companies sold the Buddha for what. Workers also lost their earnings and unpaid salaries, as well as no pension and disability insurance payments for the period when they worked. In this way, the irresponsible government has made it impossible for citizens to go on a well-deserved pension, as if they had a lower pension due to the irresponsibility of others. That the SNS and the current state leadership are different from the DOS destroyers of the economy and industry can be seen today in Nis. Today in Nis two new factories are opening up, in Nis which used to be considered an industrial giant, and until a few years ago was a city without hope, now slowly returning to it the old glow. More than two thousand new jobs are guaranteed that the PIO fund will be stable, and it should be noted that more than 500 engineers will be employed, which is very important for Nis as a university city with a machine, construction and electronic college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44037	National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44038	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, by abolishing the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid, the amount of pensions paid is returned to the level without a reduction, which is certainly the result of the most positive economic movements. This allows pensioners who have suffered the greatest burden of the fiscal consolidation process to benefit from improving the economy of the Serbian state. The law was a temporary measure necessary to heal the country's economic and financial situation and did not touch all the users of PIO rights by protecting millions and 100,000 pensioners with a pension of less than 25,000 dinars. Rapid development, results achieved, the continuation of the reforms launched enable us to support this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO without reservation, especially in view of the continued growth of GDP and surplus in the budget today more than 49.1 billion dinars. Such a situation tells us that this and next year will certainly be positive for the better position of pensioners and that the proposer in the new model of pension coordination actually provides a higher percentage of pension increases in the future. A responsible SNS policy, along with a number of results, should also stress that inflation is moving within the projected objective, that it is almost gone. Therefore, the new model of pension harmonisation is certainly more favourable for pensioners themselves. It was my duty to say this on behalf of the pensioner from the New Prince who believes in this model because they live in real time and see that Serbia is going through dynamic development, progress and progress and that under the leadership of Alexander Vukic and SNS, it will become an even better place for the lives of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44039	Thank you, colleague Jancic. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44040	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, distinguished colleagues, respected ministers with associates, to Article 2. I submitted an amendment to the bill, proposing that in the first position the words should be deleted for six months and that three months should be put in place. In contrast to my colleagues who had different thoughts in earlier debates in this article, and given that this is not about compulsory insurance within the meaning of the Law on PIO, but about the possibility of people being voluntarily provided, I believe that it is absolutely in the spirit of alterations and additions offered by this bill, that the deadline should be reduced to six months. Why? The property of the insurance company, practically voluntary insurance company, ceases on the day it is defined to stop or, as proposed by the amendment and supplement, do not pay within six months the contributions he has committed to pay. I believe that the six-month deadline in this situation is too long, which will only create a huge debt that will simply be something that one who wanted to achieve something useful for himself will come into a situation that alone creates a commitment that cannot be fulfilled. The extension of the deadline to 12 months would indeed lead those users to an even more unfavourable situation than what the law offers, and I think it is quite appropriate that this deadline should be reduced to three months, as Article 15, Article 15, which does not change, says that, exceptionally at the request of the person, the right to insurance can be acquired 30 days before the application. So, when both are taken into account, and with this reduction to three months, it would practically cover a possible period of four months in which someone can react and fulfil their obligations and cover their work experience and reduce the risk of debt to pension disability insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44041	Thank you. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44042	The respected chairman, Milicevic, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, by passing the Law on the temporary arrangement of pension payment in 2014, the biggest burden was borne by pensioners themselves, who believed from the first moment that the government and its prime minister, Aleksandar Vukic, were making a move to get the country out of bankruptcy. Their belief in better tomorrow and patience did not leave them both in 2014 and 2016, these same pensioners give full support to Alexander Vukic's policies. Today, when we talk about the draft law that ceases to apply to the Law on the temporary regulation of the way in which pensions are paid, and when we know that this law lays down a legal basis that gives the Government the possibility to pay the amount of money as a pension increase, of course, depending on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, by further establishing that the funds for these purposes cannot be higher than 0.3% of GDP on an annual basis. The funds for this purpose will be provided in the budget, and the exceptional amount of money will be paid from the financing of the Republic of the Pension Insurance Fund in 2018. Four years ago, the state was facing bankruptcy, and this suggests that the public debt at that time was 78% of GDP, and that before the end of this year it would be below 50%. For the third year in a row, we have a surplus in the budget thanks to responsible first prime minister policy, and today President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44043	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Firenjan Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44044	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to the responsible policy of the previous government and also the government's responsible policy, Serbia has managed to record excellent results in previous times. There are far better conditions for the lives of all its citizens. Serbia has thus managed to become one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe, building modern highways, reconstructing railways, building tunnels and our country's political and economic stability, large investments in infrastructure, have led to more and more investment today and more jobs. Also, we here at the National Assembly a few months ago passed excellent laws concerning the military. The army began to rebuild its equipment, unlike those times when tanks and hoodies melted. Also, there is much work to be done to ensure the best possible conditions for our young engineers, scientists, innovators and Serbia in all ways to keep them here in the country, to create families and their working relationship here. Given everything I've said, and a lot of things still can't fit in these two minutes, it's clear that Serbia has made a lot of progress, that there have been a lot of investments, a lot of new jobs, and that a lot of repairs are the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners and that we are able to pass one of these laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44045	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44046	Thank you. Dear Ministers, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 15. The Law on PIO, a new position on the 4th reads -- the provisions of this law encourage the development of the Republic of Serbia, and related to better access to economic resources. The amendment further defines Article 2 of this Act. Amendment to the Act amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending Article 15 The PIO Act. The adoption of this amendment further defines Article 2. The draft law, which also states that non-mandatory persons, secured within the meaning of this law, or not beneficiaries of the pension right, may be included in compulsory insurance and may ensure the rights of such insurance under conditions, in the form and in the manner provided for by this law, in the sense that the property of the insurance undertaking ceases or on the day when the claimor is defined or if the contribution does not pay within six months of the day of maturity. In this way, the person acquires the right to be a security guard and their position, rights and obligations are better defined, protected and determined more precisely. Our country thus provides its own safe development, and people as part of economic resources are more accessible to potential employers, while guaranteeing the rights that law and bill provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44047	Thank you. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP Mr Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44048	The Honorable Chairman, amends and additions of the Law on PIO is an important topic of this agenda in the National Assembly and therefore this number of amendments has been submitted to these points of change and supplementation. Surely what the Government has promised when public finances are stabilised and the PIO Fund will be abolished and the Retirement and Pensions Act will grow in the coming period in line with the reforms implemented by this government, which has a clear goal of raising the quality of life of citizens daily and will not be seen only by those who have bad intentions. My colleagues talked about the disastrous methodology and the poor pre-election intention of increasing pensions in 2008. In order to increase by the yellow company, the disastrous decision also had a further collapse of the state budget, because in the absence of real-source payments, short-term expensive loans were raised, and when we have spent money from privatisation spent on public spending and projects from which they were sucking money for the party and their personal cash, we have the result of a destroyed public finances, destroyed Serbia and abandoned hundreds of thousands of people without a job. All of this had to come from the foundation of President Vukic at the head of government and state and to courageously implement reforms and raise Serbia's reputation in the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44049	Thank you. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, the People's MP, doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44050	Dear gentlemen, the most important thing is that conditions have been created to increase pensions in the future. The strongest guarantee is a stable dinar, gold reserves, foreign exchange reserves. However, when it comes to increasing pensions that will be in the next period, the question arises – is it a formula or a budget? I'm responsible here for saying that it's a better budget than a formula, because when you have money in your budget, you can make a formula. If you have a formula, and there's no money in the budget, it's not worth any of the formula. What's the big deal? If we want to increase our pensions by the budget to 0.3% of GDP, the Budgetary System Law must be respected, budget implementation must be done to six months, budget implementation must be done to nine months and a final account must be done. This must be heard by the finance minister. Without this analysis, without this insight, this formula, this algorithm will not be good. I ask you that the Budgetary System Act is respected and that this is done and followed by a improvement to all of us, and above all, to pensioners who will certainly be raised pensions, because last time I was saying that what we give to pensioners from the budget, it is immediately back to the budget, thereby increasing that sum of personal spending into GDP, and again I urge that we slowly prepare and talk about gross national income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44051	Thank you, Professor. I'm gonna cry. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44052	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the story continues, of course, from earlier sessions. We know all of us here in the O.R., but those who are looking at us don't actually know, or maybe they're missing out on what this is about, I've come forward on this amendment, I could've done it for many others, but just to draw your attention to the explanation that this amendment has been rejected, like all other amendments, almost all the other amendments proposed by colleagues from the ruling party. He says: “This amendment is rejected for the reasons set out in the reasons for the refusal of the amendments of Ambassador Sandra Christmas to Article 2. Proposal for a law’. When you look at the explanation, then you see what we've seen, read in earlier sessions when these, I say, are fictitious or phantom amendments. My colleagues don't like it, but they are to be adopted, not to be adopted. Anyone who submits an amendment, he reckons he'll be adopted. This is where the amendments are submitted to waste time. In any case, the Government says in response, not my Government, but your Government, although it is common, unfortunately, refuses because it is not related to the content of Article 2. It's a bill of law. Therefore, the amendment is rejected because it is not related to the content of the member to which it is submitted. This applies to dozens, more precisely hundreds of other amendments, which were submitted and rejected in the same formula. So it's quite clear, only now, earlier times it's simply 100, 200, 300 times repeated formulation – it's rejected because it's not related to the proposal or to the contents of the members of that and that and that law, and now a slightly more elegant formulation has been found. So we could simply shorten this procedure and these days and this hour. We have been discussing the amendments for three days, in particular, and we have reached a second member at the first item of the agenda. The educational amendments and amendments to this law on education are unlikely to reach. It's happening again. I'd say it's unnecessary, sit down and make arrangements, representatives of the government and the opposition, at the college. I've heard there's been multiple calls from the opposition that there are no representatives of the opposition here and there are few of them. I'm telling you, there won't be that many of them. You've noticed that there's been a lot of representatives, just slowly, there won't be so much debates like this, and it's not good that, as I would say, they're actually boycotting instead of announcing that they're boycotting this debate, and I think maybe that would encourage the ruling majority to then, perhaps, sit down and make a deal. When the debate was in principle, then as you know, there were representatives of the opposition, there were discussions, there were polemics, more quality or less quality, that's another thing now, but this is what you expect someone to sit down and in some way masochistically listen to these amendments that are not amendments that are formulated just to talk about the successes of the government, it's simply a masochism that is unreal to expect from the representatives of the opposition, I would say any MP who holds onto himself. Simply, I repeat, this is a debate that is too high in this way and serves only to waste time, or to choke, not to hear the voice of the opposition, such as. yesterday's debate on the government, I end up with, where, I summed up, a total of 16 minutes speaking to the opposition's representatives, of 180 how much was available. So 16 out of 180 minutes, so that's less than 10%. So, it's simply not even representation, even in this proportion, where the representative is more, I don't mind having their voice heard anymore, I don't mind that in the media their voice is more dominant, nothing bothers me, but don't completely choke the opposition's voice, because it never ends well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44053	I noticed everything from my colleague, but just before I give you my word, I see that you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I feel the need to respond to my colleague, Vukadinovic, and then I will allow you to suffer injuries from the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Vukadinovic, I think we have repeatedly conducted a dialogue on the topic you are launching. You know, legitimate law is, you know it very well, and MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition that they can submit amendments. Whether or not some amendment will be a subject and be part of the debate in particular depends not on us, but on the committee that all amendments are going through to come to the feast afterwards. Please, I didn't want to interrupt you, because then I would say that I am preventing your democratic right to express your opinion, that you do not define in the future your amendment colleagues or the positions, or the opposition, because, may I say, the amendments were submitted by colleagues from the SRS, who I very much respect, and they want to participate in the debate. Please do not use the word "fantomic amendments" and do not dispute the right of MPs to explain their amendments. They saw, of course, that I am fully convinced, all colleagues who have spoken on the subject of amendments submitted so far, and I am fully convinced that they have seen the argument of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but they wanted, and that is their right, and this enables the Rules of Procedure, to, through further discussion, for up to two minutes, once again attempt to show the Government of the Republic of Serbia the importance and importance of the topic they wanted to launch through their amendment. Whether, Mr. Vukadinovicu, the opposition, and that's an incorrect qualification, and I have to do it because of my colleagues who are in the O.R. today, during the afternoon, I am suggested, here, my colleague Radeta, I am doing it, so there is no boycott of the opposition, I see here colleagues from the opposition who are ready to argue. Those who are not ready to talk about issues such as raising pensions in Serbia, that only speaks enough about them, not about us sitting in the hall. As for yesterday's session, since you raised that issue, and that's not the subject of the amendment that you've submitted to, and yet I've allowed you to speak, which means you're wrong when you say someone wants to prevent a democratic confrontation of opinion and that someone wants to prevent a democratic debate in this House. Allow me, the government showed a responsible and serious relationship yesterday, a willingness to answer MPs' questions. How was that done? In line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure did not define and did not vote this ruling coalition, nor the ruling coalition before this. We are always ready to discuss the subject of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. What's the matter with me, as chairman, that bothers me? Our benches are empty, Mr. Vukadinovic. Whether or not a boycott is of no interest to me personally, but I believe that everyone has a responsibility, first of all, to the citizens of which he received his mandate. So we can certainly talk about amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, if we talk about yesterday's session that lasted from 16:00 to 19.00, but also, please see how many MPs the opposition had yesterday been able to ask the question and how many MPs of the position. Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Now we have, of course, a large number of elected MPs, which is understandable. First of all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't be surprised at the performance of fellow Vukadinovic. When someone's ready, politics works, to change their nationality, he's ready to serve the false. So here's to correct, Mrs. Radeta corrected me – when someone is ready to change their nationality because of the parliamentary mandate, he's ready here a little bit and to tell the truth. I want the chairman to explain to me whether my rights as an MP are greater than MP Vukadinovic? And in the submission of the amendments, and in the performances, we all have the same rights, at least we whose parliamentary group is five MPs. So my group and his group are five MPs. We have six minutes plus 15 minutes to discuss the details, which is 21 minutes. We have 4.2 minutes per MP to perform in particular. MP groups that are larger, say, the Serbian Progressive Party, have 120 minutes plus 15, a total of 135 minutes. They have 1.35 minutes per MP. Mr. Vukadinovic and I have 4.2 minutes. If someone is damaged in the debate in particular, they are MPs of the most numerous parliamentary groups, it is the Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Radical Party, and we who count five MPs are least damaged. The opposition's ability to exploit it, not being productive, not being creative, being created from the outside, is not our problem, but theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44055	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I agree with you in that part of the context that when we talk about meetings where representatives of parliamentary groups are asking questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I understand that you have talked about it, the most damaged are the MP groups that have the largest number of MPs. There's another problem. You have parliamentary groups that were established at the beginning of this call, and then three or four smaller parliamentary groups are formed, and then somehow they always have an advantage over the other parliamentary groups in asking questions. I have to ask you one more time - do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, People's MP... My friend Orlic, you wanted a replica? Did counterpart Bačić and counterpart Marinkovic want to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since they are both in the system? Comrade Eagle, here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Djordje Vukadinovic came to tell us what he said we were discussing here for three days. Well, he's not discussing it, but we've been discussing it here for three days, without his participation. He came into this room a minute and a half ago. A minute and a half ago, he came into this room, and look how many hours he's got, and I haven't seen him since 10:00. In doing so, a man should have the right to comment on the other MPs again. And on the subject of this as many as he attends, he likes to photograph as I saw the other day. He was very inspired to photograph the benches of Serbian Progressive Party MPs. Here, I call him now - let him make a selfie. Let him make a selfie, let him paint himself alone there in those benches, so let him show how many other members and the tycoon-Ljutić coalitions are around him and how actively he participates, along with him, in six attacks on the Serbian Progressive Party and as he said - our phantom amendments. You know what the only phantom thing that's happened in this country in the last few days? Men's attack, men with phantoms on the wife of Mladen Ciolic, one of the Serbian Progressive Party's commanders in Sapac. Two men with phantoms grabbed his wife, held hands, covered her mouth and threatened her not to have a good time, neither she nor her family if her husband continued to do politics. And do you know why they did it? Because they are guided by a bright example of this leader of yours, this Željko Veselinović, a great hero, a man who is a known lover of democracy and a protector of law, who called for the rape of Ana Brnabić, Prime Minister, a man who is your leader and leader, who is your nickname, who is your image and opportunity and from whom you have not once been fenced, and today he is your president or chair of your tycoon-Ljutić coalition. When you walk in like this, after the complete day you've spent in a better place for you, now I'm going to finish up, take the opportunity and that time you have, you've heard how much you have, to fence yourself from this, if you don't have better things to do...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44057	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44058	... And it is also from Jesic, who is obviously not enough to do this, but today he must threaten to drag us into the streets. Come on, say something about this if you have anything, and if you don't have anything better, take a picture of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44059	Thank you. A colleague of Vukadinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44060	Just don't take it away from me then. Regardless of what the respected predecessor said, I respect and commend at least that gesture to be replicated, and not to be abused by the Rules of Procedure, so I am pleased to conclude, as his predecessor, or previous speaker, usually, for the hundredth time, for the thousandth time, has abused the Rules of Procedure here. And you abused him, Mr. Chairman, because you didn't even ask him on any basis to advertise the Rules of Procedure. It's so much more of a habit for a respected colleague to wave at this Rules of Procedure and tell him everything he wants, insults, invents, defamation of political opponents, and that he has to get a word in the Rules of Procedure, that you simply didn't ask him on what basis and by which member he advertises. You can check that out, and that's where you're wrong. On the other hand, let me just give you a quick answer, since we're probably going to continue this, hopefully useful or at least relatively useful controversy. I'm fenced, of course, Mr. Orlic, here's to mention the name, so I don't have to avoid it. However, I have nothing to build on because I am not a member of this alliance and this Mr. Veselinovic is not my leader, but anyway, I think it is a tweet that is for judgment and I have no problem fenced myself from it, although I think it is hard now to try to blow that case up and make it the biggest problem in the country, out of one unmeasured tweet, which was a bunch and by the representatives of the authorities in the previous period. So I have no problem condemning it. As for the other thing, this other thing, I don't know what it was in Capco, I didn't send it out, and as far as tweets are concerned, I'm saying, I don't have any problem. He's not my coalition, he's not my leader. As for the presence in the O.R., I said, there will be no presence in the O.R. So, I've sat down in the previous days very hard, very neatly, certainly more than a few who, a few who on this side, and also on this side of yours. And you knew how to be alone, lonely, the only one you sat by the president of the government, so you said, one is enough if the arguments are strong. I think I'm one enough to point out that the way you use and abuse amendments is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44061	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. My colleague Vukadinović, I speak very carefully and clearly. I don't think you've heard, colleague Marijan Risticevic, there may not have been a microphone on the moment you mentioned article 107, but at the beginning, mostly, it's my duty to ask which member is being called, and after the completion of the presentation of my question is whether the National Assembly wants to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I speak very precisely and clearly, as I have asked you whether you want a basis for reporting the replica, because you have a basis, or you want to speak according to the amendment. So now we have a lot of logs in. Wait a minute, all the injuries are to the Rules of Procedure. All right, let's take it in a row. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44062	Dear Chairman, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I gave up on the previous discussion to report to the Rules of Procedure, but now I still have to react, because when the false Vlah is talking about phantoms, you've reacted it's okay, but to make it impossible for MEPs to talk about topics that are current, and they can only ask for those who have no ideology and care about the citizens of Serbia. This last Mohikanac in the benches across the street defends Veseinovic, Jeremic, Gilas and others, only in the function of still trying to get something on that side for his personal account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44063	Mr. Becic, you have been in a situation many times now to lead and chair the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session and you know very well that it is very difficult to predict what the MPs will talk about, so that I personally cannot preside over what my colleague Vukadinovic is going to talk about, and it is my obligation to enable him to report and to base this announcement, because there was a basis for it to be a replica, and after that I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is my obligation as chairman. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Igor Becic: I do not ask the Assembly to declare itself. I thank my colleague, Becic. We continue in the order of the reported. I've seen you, colleague Vukadinovic, but too many have been reported and all point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty to let my colleagues speak. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44064	I thank you, Chairman. I reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure after my colleague Vukadinovic was exposed. I will point to Article 107, the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by the words of counterpart Vukadinovic, first of all, for the reason that he, to put it this way, has not dared to come to a principle debate on these bill proposals, and has also not been here now or in the debate on the details of these bill proposals, and we of such MPs listen to the abuses of the Rules of Procedures made up of SNS MPs. No SNS MP has abused the Rules of Procedure when he reported after the presentation of Djordje Vukadinovic. I also like his sentences very much, if we could cut back on sitting down so much, or let the authorities and the opposition agree. Apparently, a colleague no longer knows where he belongs, but that doesn't give him the right to violate the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm not gonna ask you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44065	Thank you, colleague. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. You wanted a replica, not a exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44066	I signed up for the line, I showed you earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44067	Well, if you'll excuse me, colleague Orlic, for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44068	Did you give me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44069	Yes, I did, but I thought it was the basis of your reporting to the Rules of Procedure's injuries, since there's a lot of colleagues in the system. First, colleagues from your MP group pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then a replica, of course. The word is Alexander Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44070	Thank you, Chairman. Article 108. I highly appreciate that you tried to draw attention to what speaker Djordje Vukadinovic, an MP, said. Again, I must say that we have easily crossed over one thing that has been said, which is masochism, characterized the performance of SNS MPs as masochism, and I think you had to point to that violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then we heard - asphyxiation of the opposition. I have to ask the question – and which opposition? Who's choking exactly and what opposition? Where is the opposition, Mr. Vukadinovic, where is it? Left of you, right of you, where are they? Where are they today? Where are they yesterday? Where were they the day before yesterday? What is smarter that they have to do than attend a session of the National Assembly where important laws are passed? Where are they today? What opposition are we suffocating, and in what way? It shows – phantom amendments. I can also say that these are phantom MPs, who are never present when the bill's proposals are to be discussed. Mazochism, because we dared to write amendments whose essence is to support a good bill. This is a good bill. Our amendments are in support of a good bill, which will produce good and positive effects for the citizens of Serbia and is therefore masochism, and it is not masochism when he and his colleagues write hundreds and hundreds of amendments with only one text – it is deleted, a simple sentence – deleted. Then it's not masochism. I think you should have reacted and a minimum warning to give him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44071	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44072	Thank you, Chairman. I advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 109, where he says – an offensive term is if he uses a speaker, or what he calls himself a speaker across the street at all. What happened in the last few days characterized this whole debate, even today, when they occasionally turn on about one or two afternoons, when they wake up so boldly and come to the Assembly to drink some coffee, juice or eat, well, then they come to call us masochists, to call us senseless, that the amendments are pointless, that everything we do is stupid. Well, of course raising pensions for them is stupid, because there's no increase for their tycoons, the mafia and the others. Of course it's stupid for them. You should draw attention to this and give warning whenever dozens of ugly words are used, and as much as the one there has made faces, he used them in the same way, and received a warning, so be the same in giving warning, and remember what was said earlier. But everything they say actually serves to cover up their writings on Twitter, their threats by rape, I don't know, hanging, killing, kicking, slapping, and all that. In addition to Serbia's citizens punishing it in the elections, we have a duty, and you as chairman to punish it in an adequate manner in the Serbian Parliament. I will not allow the rape alliance to rape in the direct transmission of all Serbia, it will not allow SNS MPs. If necessary, we will all report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but no one will threaten any woman in Serbia with rape to our daughters, mothers, fathers, SNS officials, Serbian Government, any woman in Serbia. He thinks it's funny. It's funny because they support it. They say - I can condemn it, but not condemn it, because to condemn it, they would not sit so constrained in the coalition for rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44073	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. As you have noticed, I rarely say such a sanctioning measure when it comes to MPs and positions and opposition. My goal, first of all when it comes to this session, is to return the session to one normal course, primarily because of the importance and importance of the topic we're talking about today. I'm sorry if some colleagues and colleagues didn't realize it, but it speaks of them, not of me as chairman. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Filipovic? Yeah. Thank you. Right on line, fellow MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44074	He says Djordje Vukadinovic doesn't know about these examples we're talking about. Here, now you've heard, now you know what happened to the family of Mladen Cholic. Are you determined by that? I didn't hear anything. Now you know what Jesic wrote and how well he threatened us, when he would drag us around the streets. Have you made any arrangements about that? You're not even about that. You know very well, you've known for days what Zeljko Veselinović did. Now you're saying - I could be the one to determine myself, but I don't belong there, he's not my leader. And where do you belong, Mr. Vukadinovic? What MP group are you sitting in? Are you in a parliamentary group with Ristic, who is one of the founders of this tycoon-Ljotic association? Yes, it is. Is the chairman of the parliamentary group of party vice-president Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivic, also the founder of the tycoon-Ijotic coalition? Yes, it is. Is he also in the same parliamentary group as the president of Jeremic's party's female collective Dijana Vukomanovic? Is it, may I remind you, the same one who, when the Belgrade City Assembly discussed condemning Željko Veseinović, who, for evil and wrongly, was a committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly, commented on the words of one of our colleagues that it is unacceptable what this man thought, let alone what he wrote, said, about Ana Brnabic, a lady, you know how your colleague who cares about women's rights? "She is no lady," so in those words. And justice and divorce and relativisation, so it's nothing else, Mr. Vukadinovic, to agree with these and these views. Because we know where you belong politically and because you relativize things like this, and you ignore everything else and pretend it never happened. This is your face too, this is your picture and opportunity and these are your values as much as you don't want to accept it or admit it to yourself, and that selfie you hit still stands open to you, it's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44075	Thank you. You want a replica, colleague Vukadinovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44076	Yes, I commend the last speaker for at least trying to replicate, and that cowardly concealment behind the abuse of the Rules of Procedure should be their honor, therefore, to his colleagues, the first thing. The other thing is, there's no need for me to build up on a statement from someone who's not my leader, but I certainly condemn it when it comes to that tweet, which you've made and a little high and misused, but it is for every conviction. I also didn't notice you being so loud and you've heard yourself, in the condemnation of the conduct, the ferocity of a political, one person, one individual, not to say one thing, what is said, the entity and one character that has been here in front of the Assembly for days, weeks of noise, calls out and spits out the MPs of the opposition and interferes with the appearances of public and scheduled protests by the opposition representative who did not tweet, but has been convicted, convicted, legally convicted, by the way be said for rape, and who acts and acts as your stalker, Mr. Orlic, by the way, but of course, the fool has everywhere and we can't deal with it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not following Mr. Jesic on Twitter and I don't know what he's tweeting, nor is it my obligation to react to anything that appears there. What's much more important than this, so where the opposition is, I told you, maybe the viewers can't tell the difference, one debate in principle, that opposition sits, participates, as far as it can in the Rules of Procedure, and the other is the debate in particular, this is the submission of amendments that I still call, I think they're phantom. Why are they phantom? Because they are tolerated, not to be adopted, but to waste their time on the opposition. That's why they're phantom. As for who, which is false, I think it's really hard to be hurt and offended, although some colleagues work across the street from people who have changed party uniforms so many times, who have sold faith for dinner, I am of course not a fake Vlach, but they are fake Serbs, including their leader.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44077	My colleague Vukadinović, what you were talking about, the way you qualified a particular topic, which was launched and talked about several days in the National Assembly, speaks of you, and I will not comment on it as chairman, I will comment when I am in the parliamentary benches. But once again, please do not insult the dignity of any MP by saying that the amendment is phantom. I didn't interrupt. We talked a little bit about procedures, the way some amendment becomes an integral part of the debate in particular. If you thought so, then you should have talked about it at board meetings, but I don't know if you did. In this way you insult the dignity of every MP and position and opposition, and you insult the dignity and the committees responsible for making such a decision. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44078	Well, yeah, what you're doing, exactly what you're doing, now what you're doing, that's justice. That's exactly what you're doing right now, that's relativization. You're telling me I've got someone of my own running around here in the parking lot. What's that nonsense, what does that have to do with what we're talking about? Where do I get a man who scares people in the parking lot? Come on, get some sugar and water. This is what you need to determine, about this and where you belong, so where do you belong to Vukadinovic? Are you the president of Sanda Raskovic Ivić's parliamentary group? Yes, it is. What did she say about this? What her colleague said that she had only commented on this – she is not an Ana Brnabić lady, so she can be told this way. She's not an Anna Brnabic lady, so she can be told this way that she wants things this way. Is that your company? Are those your leaders? Then what are you? Who are you and where are you? As far as these questions are concerned, where does they belong? Let me tell you one thing, you won't condemn when a woman is attacked physically, you won't condemn when a woman is threatened for her husband's politics, you won't have these things fenced, and do you know why you won't? Because the things that these people sit around you are applauding. Next, listen now and draw conclusions that they are not ashamed to report. In the election elections we cannot win, over 60% of functionally non-psychotic citizens are there and they will remain his believers until the end. Milosevic lost not in the election but in the revolution. I'm an advocate of the rebellion of the people. That moment will come. Says Gajic, senior party official Vuk Jeremic. Says Gajic, a top counterpart, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic, and others with whom you are in the same ranks. On these things, what do you think they're doing? They're applauding. They applaud as you now verbally applaud the invitation to rape by trying to know and to defend it, or to protect whether or not you ignore it, but certainly revitalise that it doesn't turn out to be scary. This is not that terrible, this is so disgusting, human disgusting, that you can't do it, and while you're doing it, I can only congratulate you, Željko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44079	Thank you, colleague Orlic. My colleague Filipović, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44080	Chairman, once you don't give a warning, then it goes on forever, goes on and on to insult us. Again, I ask of you, here, is the injured article 107, 108 and 109, the whole Rules of Procedure was injured in principle when what is across the street addressed us to SNS MPs, because it is not the intention to fix something in this debate but merely the intention of hating more and more and to be hatred among the citizens of Serbia, which is impossible. Serbian citizens see what is done, see that salaries and pensions go up, see that roads are made, bridges are seen. It's not phantom roads, phantom bridges like you did, paint a wall and open it. But you weren't able to do that either, and you honor us for changing our uniforms. You know what, I was born a Serb, as a Serb, and I'm going to die, but you were born as something, you entered parliament as something, so you'll come out as something. And that's something that you choose what you are, how easier it is for you to enter parliament, because for you, your own family won't vote, and for the SNS, over two million people voted in the elections and the list. Who's voting for you? Who are these people whose name are you speaking for? Whom you represent in the Serbian Parliament. Wake up at noon, come here at three, for an hour, throw some opening around the Serbian Parliament and move on, probably picking up some expensive pasta at Jeremic and similar, at Gilas. Leave more citizens of Serbia alone, they will give you, give you both this grade and the elections and give you every day. You and Gilas, Jeremic, Pajtic and other bandits are both at the waste of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44081	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged injury? No, I don't. If I had double arches, then I'd have to make two warnings about what Mr. Vukadinovic said and about what you said, unfortunately, by accident, I suppose, in effect. So there are no double arches, and I have no intention of preventing, repeating the confrontation, democratic confrontation of opinions here in parliament. What is allowed for Mr Vukadinovic is also allowed for you through an indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, in one I fully agree with you, which is that we are too far away from the topic, and the topic has great importance and importance for the citizens of Serbia. Did you point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 regarding Article 104 and Article 107. I'm going to do the same thing by amendment so that my colleague Vukadinovic doesn't call me a cowardly performance. I'm not a coward and I offer him a duel if he wants to go to N1 TV, etc., where he goes and four times calls me, of course, without my presence. A colleague, Vukadinovic, said I offended him. I brought two things. One was that it was the second on the list of weeds of the national minority. He should answer clearly – yes or no. If he was, and he was, then there was no insult. The second thing I was saying is that he and I have the same rights and that these rights are greater than the rights of the SNS and the SRS, or that according to the MP in particular, the SNS has 1.35 minutes, and the two of us have 4.2 minutes. In the debate in principle, it's more than that. So they have 5.2 minutes, I have 5.2 minutes, and SNS and SRS MPs have far less. So I put it out and I don't know what was an insult and what was false and what was cowardly about it. It's the same thing, and I can't say it again, and I have a desire to repeat it and give it a chance to lead the replicas with me, and I think it's going to go very badly. I expect after this, the only thing left for him to do is to cast some oatmeal magic, put in a rooster, put in two bat wings and try to eliminate me and my colleagues. He did not fence himself against his electoral list bearers, who called for a serious crime, the military and police to execute the coup and take over. He's never fenced himself from anything, and I'm building on every statement of that kind, whether it's coming from us or from their side. I'm not asking to vote on this, but I'm not a coward and I'm at his disposal whenever he wants to, but don't come in at one hour so bold and sleepy, because at that point, I might not be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44083	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I understand that you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, and believe me, as chairman, I have no intention of making any TV duels, nor do I want to participate in it at all. This is the kind of debate I'm not going to allow anymore, because I think we're... I'm not saying, this topic is probably of great importance for colleagues Vukadinović and colleagues, but I think that citizens expect us to continue to talk about amendments to the amendment and addition of the Law on PIO. What I thought was an insult, I also suggested to my colleagues Vukadinovic and my colleagues Filipovic. I believe it wasn't their intention, and now I want to believe that neither of them intended to insult anyone, that certain things were said in effect. I have an understanding of this kind of political struggle. We are now continuing to discuss the amendments. counterpart Marinkovic has been waiting a long time to talk about the amendment submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44084	Thank you, dear colleague Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must also look back at the previous debate and say that the opposition colleague, therefore, has been a previous speaker in the focus here for about an hour. We had one debate on this television that supports the former U.S. administration. We had a very cultural debate. So that was about nine months ago. However, what is essential is that I have not heard from my colleague a single word about this topic of today's agenda, which is an increase in pensions. This is a serious debate on how to make a better life for pensioners, therefore, the oldest citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are around 1,700,000. So nine months is his policy whether anyone has the right or not to propose amendments to the National Assembly. Well, what else is he going to do, rather than work on committees, propose amendments and help his discussions to make the draft laws as good as possible, to be applicable in practice, to be in favour of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The previous speaker is a public opinion researcher and is very well aware of the political situation and the consolidation of political, economic and other relations in our country. He knows that more than 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia support us and I know that it is very difficult to discuss this in a situation where Serbia is second in Europe in terms of economic growth with 4.9% in the first six months right behind Poland, which has 5.1%. It is difficult to discuss when we are increasing pensions, when we are preparing to, in accordance with economic power and economic success, increase public sector salaries, when we have more and more investment I know it is difficult to discuss and make some constructive proposals, but yet I call on my colleagues to make sure that, for the sake of their better lives, we talk about whether Belgrade's water construction dynamics should be faster or not, whether we have done enough highways in 2017, and there were 110 kilometers. I agree, it may have been possible to make 120 and 130km of highways, but we are talking about this debate in parliament going towards making Serbia's citizens live well and well together. I know that you have no arguments and I know that the only argument – we do not have enough space. So how come you don't have enough space? Look at the weekly, look at the printed media. The situation in Serbia is the same situation in the United States. Eighty percent of the mainstream media there is focused on the criticism of Trampa, to criticise his policy because those who are doing this now and criticising lost their privileges have lost their influence. So it is now and here and then you, due to the lack of arguments, due to the lack of what is the fundamental problem of parliament and political life in Serbia. Because of your lack of policy, the biggest problem for you is why the ruling coalition submits amendments. Well, I personally have submitted an amendment to the amendments to the Higher Education Act and let the Minister say so, and he will plead if we have time to see whether the amendment is good, whether or not he will fix the bill, but you have no right to call us phantoms and to call here over 160-170 people cowards and people who do not work in the interests of your country. And what are you doing? You have condemned racial discrimination, you have condemned full discrimination. Yes, you said - I condemn. Is that enough? Well, if one of them had done it on the left here, they'd have crucified him like Christ on the Golgotha. Please continue with one specific discussion. We're talking about concrete things here, about a very, very serious subject. We are increasing pensions and making our oldest citizens better, safer and better-quality alive and that is, the result of President Vukic's policy, that is, the result of the policy of the Republic of Serbia and our majority here in parliament and, of course, with such a policy we will continue. Of course, you continue around the amendment, continue around trivial things and you will remain, as well as Dimitria Ljotic. He was 1% in 1938. It's probably the same order right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44085	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44086	I thank the chairman. As for the amendments, it is acceptable, in any case, but must be seen in one broader context, in the context of everything that has happened before we started a serious reform of the pension and disability system, and thus the reform of the PIO. It is obvious that the reform processes in this area, which were in 2002, 2003, 2005, and in 2010, did not produce adequate results because they did not follow the relevant social changes, did not follow the appropriate demographic parameters. They also did not follow what means the burden of the budget in the right way. They didn't follow the movements that relate to covering certain social and social problems, which is why we were always with so-called. the pressure of the budget and the budgetary developments which in no way gave citizens the right to be stable, based on stable foundations. In view of this fact, it is indisputable that this reform process that is currently taking place, and this very bill that is before us, and which we are discussing, points to a good path, one good direction to form a PIO, how to define the position of pensioners and how to ensure their, above all, social security, and thus legal certainty. What is good is that there are certain preconditions for this, that there are investments that allow as many employment as possible, an increased number of employees, and therefore a logical reduction in the number of unemployed. It is good that increasing the retirement age has led to a balance, i.e. a balance in the relationship between the number of pensioners and pensions. This creates conditions for a continuous and continuous increase in pensions that pensioners receive. What I still want to point out, and I ask you to write this time to me as the time of the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, is a fact that no one in the opposition has spoken correctly, or has been used by facts or better to tell the truth. In 2002, 2003, the system was not good when it comes to pensioner and PIO status. On the other hand, from 2008 to 2012, we have been participating in the government, but the cash was in the hands of those who decided how to channel financial movements, how and under what conditions to meet the needs of pensioners and how to determine the heights of their pensions. It is obvious that they did not produce good results in this direction because mistakes were made, and these mistakes can certainly only be attributed to those who decided on financial developments in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44087	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to the amendment, MP Djordje Vukadinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44088	You and I and God know I had the right to replicate Mr. Orlic's exposure, but you didn't give it to me. I'm speaking on the amendment right now to say, since there was a dilemma as to what kind of attitude and why we don't support this measure, we support this measure of increasing pensions, but this is not a law on raising pensions, but this is a law that actually abolishs pension cuts, to be a little precise. Also, it is a law which, that is to say, transfers to the Government the discretionary right to whether or not it will comply with the possibilities, but perhaps also with the needs, and those needs may also be pre-election, whether pensions will be raised or not, and therefore, the majority of the opposition is left and right of me considered to be a bad measure. So it's a good thing that bad law is abolished, which suspends its validity, it's good and it's to greet. It's not a good thing the government is handing over the discretionary right to say a little bit like that good Sultan or Suleiman or Haron Al Rashid who goes by the charm and pulls out and promises, sharing pensions when he thinks there's a need and a possibility. That's not good. It's not good that when the state of the budget is and the state of the government is as good as colleagues keep stressing, then why didn't you really adopt some of the numerous proposals here to the opposition on both sides, who said that they were then constantly getting their pensions back. So, to be returned to being taken away, when the situation is so good and when you are so, I would say to God, stabilize the finances. So, gradually, as well as old foreign savings, step by step, it was eventually returned. I think we should do that with pensions, that's one thing. Secondly, since my colleague Marinkovic spoke according to the amendment, and in fact he used it all the time by replicating me, I must say that he doesn't worry about whether we from the opposition or I personally have an argument, let him enable us to make those arguments in very fair terms and debates, so we will see who has and who has no arguments. As for those of you who were talking about Vlach magic, I think some magic was already cast on the fellow concerned, so I wouldn't, or at least it looks like magic was cast on him, so I wouldn't do it too much. Also, like the nicknames for not representing anyone who comes from someone who's a fake conductor, a fake or a real window washer, a fake conductor, a fake high school kid, a fake student, a fake magistrate, and he calls out and teaches other people's minds. The point is, so let's cut the debate short. You want to end the bad law and we support it, you don't want those pensions back within a reasonable period of time. I ask – why? I don't think there's any reason, I'm saying, if it's that good already. As for insults, I always get the feeling that someone keeps calling me for a violation of the Parliament's dignity, I don't know if my colleagues ever look at a stenogram, let them see what the representatives of the majority speak to us in words of day to day. The last thing, I won't really owe on this subject, is the 77-fold name of Dragan Gilas, a man who's not even an MP in this assembly on Wednesday, 77 times. Does that mean someone here is itchy or blistering the gentleman? I didn't mention it once, it was mentioned by representatives of the ruling majority. What's this about? The ugliest attacks. So, I stand by my words today and yesterday and tomorrow. My colleagues from the Parliament club, we agree on the main issues, we agree on what is the topic of the assembly debate, and what, to whom is private, for whom the vote, who it supports, supports, is their business. So we are not brothers in blood, but we are here, acting in harmony with issues on the agenda of the congregation, and we are very complex in this regard. I really don't know that there's so much hysteria about one inappropriate, rude, etcetera, whatever you want, tweets, and this is where you look, that's when I see a thorn in my brother's eye, and you don't see a log in your own eye, dear colleagues. You can't see that in the studies of state television and ratings TV, a convicted rapist and salty mind and wisdom, thinks and disturbs the opposition's gatherings. It's a little different than one rude, stupid tweet. As far as the law is concerned, we support the reduction, we do not support the fact that the measure and return of the pensions that have been taken, and whoever it represents and who it votes for, we will see it in some future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44089	Comrade Vukadinovic, it's not a problem if you, as you said, will be in debt. You have the time that belongs to your parliamentary group and of course, according to the Labour Rules, you have the possibility and the legitimate right to use it, but the problem is the other part. You insisted on it, and you didn't. Only one small part of your presentation was directed towards the amendment and to the law, and the other part to the desire to continue the debate that was held until a moment ago, which is not the topic of the current assembly session. So you insist on the topic of congregation discussion, and you did not talk about it in the second part of your presentation. I did not warn you, nor did I suggest you, nor did I interrupt you, for if I had done so, you would say again, "Well, you have prevented me from speaking. As you can see, no. No one has any intention of preventing you from speaking, but I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You just had a chance to use the replicas, you had the possibility of a replica, you had the right to a replica, exchange your views on the subject you're re-enacting with your colleague Orlic. With your presentation, you have now challenged a certain round of reporting following the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you say that your goal is to talk about what is the subject of the assembly session. Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. And I have to ask myself whether it's worth being this much tolerable and trying to conduct a debate in a democratic spirit. Thank you. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44090	This Zeljko Vesenovic, who has just said that his main goal is to defend the character and work of Dragan Gilas, the boss, the leader, did he, he try and himself seem to justify it now, but how? What did he say, that I, like Željko Veselinović, called for some kind of rape? Did he say that? When did this happen? Did I do it? Did Alexander Markovic ever do that? Did Serbia's Filipovic ever do that? Did any of our colleagues do it? What are you talking about? What's wrong with you people? Who ever did something like this to us? So this is, not just above all limits of insolence and insolence, this is below every level of any human dignity, if anyone in the world feels it. He says: The reduction is lifted, and what will happen to the difference? When something is bigger than it was today, both yesterday and October 2014, it is not said – the reduction is lifted, it is said – is increasing. If anyone wants to know where the difference is, well, the difference is that in a plus that's going to be seen every month for everyone. You can see it now for almost 90% of the pensioners. You'll see everyone from next month. Positive difference. And the fact that people's pensions were received from October 2014 until today, and they wouldn't receive it, no one, no one category, not just those we weren't reducing, but only the increases they were getting, but no one. I'm sorry? Who? You want me to apologize to Veselinovic once? They say by chance, one small tweet, they say – by accident, some small mistake. They say it happened. This rape call and this kind of violence, it's nothing by chance. It's nothing by chance, it's manners. That's the way. It's technique and method. Did he accidentally invite Bosko Obradovic to arrest the president of the Republic and the military junta? He's lost it, too. Because yesterday, Jesic accidentally called for the withdrawal of SNS people on the street on the lynch? He's lost it, too. Did this Vladimir Gajic happen to call for riots and take over authorities on the street? He's lost it, too. So how come everyone from the tycoon Ljutić Association gets lost every day or two?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44091	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44092	Last sentence. How come everyone makes the same mistake and doesn't feel the need for each other to say what they think about each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44093	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44094	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. As long as you don't have that attitude, look at your face in Željko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44095	Thank you. Comrade Rističević, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 103, 104 and 107. I think colleague Vukadinovic has every advantage over us. He is the Messenger of the people. During the time, I've already said that there's the same time in principle, in particular as me, and that there's three to four times more than there's SNS and there's more time than there is SPS and SRS. I want to tell you that there's still a series of advantages. He's also a journalist. He can report himself. I'm not that. My colleagues aren't. He's also an analyst. So, a politician, an analyst, a journalist and a public opinion investigator. He can also doping support, as he did to Vuk Jeremic, the Wolf of the Seed, better known in the people by that name. So he got 35 percent, this one won 5% in the election. We know him as an analyst who was researching "Luthium of Serbia", and he was investigating whether you were satisfied with your life and for this he charged 2 million and 400,000 at the time of Boris Tadic, and "Lutrija" then went to minus. On, as you say, that he won the games of chance without buying "Lutria", I lied to him, and I did not insult him. Also, Mr. Vukadinovic must not be fenced from the worst crime in politics, and this is an invitation to a coup and coup. Here, let him stand up and say that he is fully under way with Bosko Obradovic's statement, which was the bearer of his electoral list, that he invited officers and police to take over the president of the Republic and replace the government, even though the president of the Republic of Serbia enjoys the support of over 50% of the voters registered. Let him stand up and say that he is fully under way, from Bosko Obradovic's statements, and I will applaud him first. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44097	I thank you, colleague Risticevic, and I understand that you do not want the National Assembly in the Day of Voting to enter into a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Personally, I don't see how I could have done it, because I could have done it as chairman, but I realized that this data was, first of all, for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public. Thank you. Just before you came forward, colleague Žarić Kovacevic, then you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44098	Thank you, Chairman. I've reported it after the Rules of Procedure's injury. I refer to Article 106, paragraph 1, which says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. As you yourself have seen, following the presentation of Djorđa Vukadinovic, which you yourself have pointed out, counterpart Vukadinovic appeared after the amendment and replicated all of us who appeared in the previous round of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, it is impossible, because the Rules of Procedure do not even allow anyone to have a reply to the Rules of Procedure without talking about what he reported after the amendment. So he's obviously going to use all the time he's got today and use the notifications to cause pointless replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which aren't meaningless in terms of hurting the Rules of Procedure, but are in terms of what we need to talk about today. We here today need to talk in detail about a very important law, about how pensioners will increase pensions, and he's using his notices to distract attention from something else. I'm just asking you, on the one hand, I'm going to take the opportunity to ask you to return the debate to your current and get us back and discuss the amendments, and on the other hand, I'm asking you to stop it in the future, regardless of what I know and I see that you're really very tolerant and that you don't want to put yourself on the line that you didn't let anyone talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44099	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44100	Article 27, Mr. Chairman. You're supposed to be running a session. You do it selectively, despite trying to sound like someone who's objective. You gave the replica to Mr. Orlic again, you gave the replica, and then you gave the breach to the Rules of Procedure, even though it should have been the other way around. Secondly, they've allowed you to be re-injured by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. It's a serious injury you do all the time. You particularly tolerate representatives of the ruling coalition. I, as you know, never or terribly rarely tend to harm the Rules of Procedure. I prefer to compromise, rather spend this little time I have than wave to the Rules of Procedure, and actually, under that firm, to replicate and answer, I say, to fake conductors, fake peasants, and I don't know what else. As far as who's sticking to the subject, we and as most opposition MPs talked about the subject much more than those who, as I said, were on Wednesday 77 times...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44101	Are you, colleague Vukadinovic, replicating or pointing?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44102	No, I'm explaining your double standards, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44103	Then talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44104	So the double standard is that you've allowed controversy and accusations against me, often insults, and on the other hand, you're not letting me use the right to replication. I'm just saying that you were simply selective here, because the 77-fold name of Dragan Gilas was mentioned on Wednesday, and nobody on this side of us did it. Well, who's turning the subject, Mr. Chairman? So, I won't use it anymore, if I'm not really forced, to hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna spend this time having some more objections on the bill. I also have a specific question for Minister Djordjevic, but it is not coming to this. But, gentlemen, if someone turns the subject, if someone uses and abuses time and transmissions and MPs and the Assembly, then they are MPs of the ruling majority with their amendments, who they know are only tolerated to waste time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44105	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. When it comes to insults, with insults and a violation of the dignity of fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, you started by saying... It may be funny to you, I don't, and I don't see anyone in the O.R. laughing except you. That's an interesting sense of humor. So, with the insults you started, you said the amendments were phantom, and I explained the procedure and explained the place and time when you were and where you were supposed to talk about it. You obviously don't understand. I am sorry that after so long in the National Assembly, you have not sufficiently studied the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about selective justice and you're talking about a selective approach. Then he's talking about you again, colleague Vukadinovic. You had equal opportunities and the right to speak as well as your colleague Orlic. You have both received a replica and an opportunity to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although you have not spoken of what is the point of the agenda. I did not interrupt you as chairman, but suggested slightly after the completion of your presentation. If it's not in the spirit of a democratic and a desire to conduct a normal debate, I don't know what else it is. Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44106	I should say yes, but still no, I don't, because it's absolutely everything, because there are so many of these violations that one more or less.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44107	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44108	Thank you, Chairman. Member of 107th Dignity. Again, false peasants, false magistrates, false conductors, and what the previous speaker was saying here, but right away, I don't want the Assembly to plead to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You know why I don't want to? Because I'm still happy and happy because all of us here today have just received confirmation of who is the real boss of Djorđa Vukadinović, who is the employer and who gives the money, and that is Dragan Gilas. What's more important to me than what we've got here is confirmation, and the citizens of Serbia, everyone can hear,
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44109	Just talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44110	Of course, I'm talking to you. Mr. Chairman, everyone could hear who was the real boss and the Alliance for Serbia and Djorđa Vukadinovic, who was giving the money. So, here as a sharp jump to the mention of Dragan Gilas, he still honors us here as we mentioned him 77 times during this session. Yes, we've mentioned it 77 times and we'll mention it 177 times because he ruined Belgrade while he was mayor and because he would ruin Serbia if, God forbid, he came into a situation to lead Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44111	Thank you. We've gotten too far from the subject. We're continuing to discuss the amendments. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44112	Thank you, Your Honor. You see, I've been sitting in this room all day waiting patiently for my turn to speak, and then he walks into Mr. Vukadinovic's room and wants to take away my right. However, if I may, I would like to make some observations about this debate. Many things have been said in this House, very useful discussions of my fellow Members from the parliamentary group we have heard, but it is noticeable that when MPs of the ruling majority speak of the achievements of this authority, about everything that is good and useful for the citizens of Serbia, one of the members of that alliance comes and does what you just saw. As long as they force that selective amnesia to deny how devastating their rule has been to this country, we must remind them of it, because it reminds us of all the debts that we are paying back today, all the bad moves they have made, because by changing the authorities can't erase the obligations they have created, nor undo the negative effects, and not to talk again about what kind of dictionaries are used to express hatred for government officials, including us MPs. Despite all this, pensions will grow, factories will open, hospitals will be built, highways and more will be done to make everyone feel better. Why are we sure that's how it's gonna be? Because we work, and when someone does, they get results. Our results are visible and measurable, not fictitious, and that's what our citizens judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44113	Thank you. The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Not by amendment. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm directly mentioned, I have to remind you, by my colleague, and that's why I have the right to the line. I'm going to use that right in a shortened form, because it's really not my goal to make this debate more difficult here, but I just wanted to draw attention, and believe me, almost every amendment of yours, every session of you could be criticised and analyzed in this way. The colleagues are so used to hearing themselves, that even the shortest, mildest, most well-intentioned remark, the very appearance of us on this side is caused by the salves of anger and insult. Mr. Chairman, not you, but your predecessor was talking about how I insult someone, so that's nonsense. I just said that I think it's my political position, after all, that the amendments, as I said, are pointless and that they serve, in a way, the time spent by the ruling party. That's legitimate. I didn't say they were illegal. I said it was unusual, that it was some kind of contribution, an original contribution to the political system theory that the ruling party submitted amendments to its own draft laws which otherwise praise. It is unusual and it stands as many of you there and as few of us as there are here. I thank my colleague. I'm not going to say anything wrong with her, as well as at the expense of the good work here in power, but who's boss and boss, I thought some colleagues used to have a boss and boss, and I don't, and that might be a flaw. This isn't where I launched the theme of Dragan Gilas, it's my colleagues from the ruling party. I was just waiting to see how many times. So, simply, it's counterproductive. You make it for the leader, I end up with the opposition, not someone on this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44115	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, according to Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44116	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know how many times I'm going to report today for the breach of the Rules of Procedure after my colleague, Gjorge Vukadinovic, has been exposed. Today, we can simply choose whether we want to report after his report to the Rules of Procedure or for a replica or for an amendment or whatever. Today, counterpart Djordje Vukadinovic uses calls to draw the topic in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44117	Just specify a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44118	Article 103 is about the abuse of Rules of Procedure, Section 7, I'd say. So, I ask you not to allow your colleague Vukadinovic to abuse the Rules of Procedure in the future, while respecting the Members of the SNS and MPs of the ruling coalition as we abuse the Rules of Procedure and that we are talking about something that is not the subject of the agenda. So it's clear to me that he'd like to be at the centre of attention today, but he's not at the centre of attention today. Today, the focus is on increasing pensions for pensioners in the Republic of Serbia and the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44119	My colleague, Žarić Kovacevic, I believe I did not violate the provisions of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because if I did, then I would have to subtract from Mr. Vukadinovic's parliamentary group. He complained in his previous discussions that MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, by submitting amendments, were taking up time belonging to the opposition. We're not going to take anything from them, we're going to let them go, but I'm just wondering, where does the time for discussion in particular belong to the MPs of the opposition? Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is Studenka Kovacevic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44120	I thank the chairman. Just to clear something up, I'm using my right to replicate. Mr. Vukadinovic replicated to me even though he was not mentioned in an ugly sense. I didn't insult him with anything, and then he used it right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which Alexander Markovic pointed to about 15 minutes ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44121	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44122	I really hope that we will continue this debate in the spirit in which she was led until the moment, while you know who and you know why, didn't show up in this room. This would indeed be in the best interest of the National Assembly, but since the atmosphere is mentioned, what are the topics and what is the news today and what should be the most important message today. Our message, until those who decided to fly, seems to defend the character and the work of Alexander Gilas, Zeljko Veselinovic and others, was Serbia at all costs. So our message was Serbia. Our message was that something good was going on in this country. Our message was that pensions would be bigger than ever. What's the news of the day, if you're interested? It is a good day to open a Cumtobel factory in Nis, and the country's personal president attends. A large, valuable investment of 30.6m euros. What will be the news today, tomorrow in this country? Also, another factory is opening in Nis, and it is about the factory, and these are the things that Serbia is dealing with, and the tycoon-Ljotić coalition, feel free to deal with this kind of scandalous content. Neither will they become louder on these topics, nor will anything good contribute to the environment in which they are located – hatred, which calls for violence, hatred that calls for coup, deeply aware as it says, that there is nothing to look for in democratic elections. It's enough for itself, but she's in this country while we're wondering what the subject is, the topic won't be, there'll be good things.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44123	A colleague to Vukadinovic, a replica? On what grounds? (The People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, throws it away. From what I understand, he didn't mention you at any point. He mentioned someone who wasn't in the O.R., I don't know why. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my theory is that pensions must be earned, that they must be paid out of production and that is why I support the government's proposal, that every increase is made out of GDP is 11%. So, the opposition's proposal to do this out of inflation. Let's say, this year when GDP increases are 4.9, almost 5%, and inflation 1.5 they hit the pensioner's pocket directly, and here they say we're taking pensions. I, as a allegedly fake farmer, with an internship of one 50 years in agriculture, someone who was born in the country, someone who was nine years old going to the fields, so I lived to be a fake farmer. I advocate that farmers and workers, as much as they increase pensions, that the range between the largest and the smallest pensions be reduced. That we may distribute the money to the poor, for they spend it, not in the Maldives, nor spend it in various resting places; they spend it in the houses of the servants. They buy food, clothing and shoes, 20% of the states pay their taxes and contributions. We don't have anything from the yacht. Money spent outside causes poverty in Serbia. He's been deposited somewhere out there, and he's not here, and it's a double damage. Em's been stolen, and I don't know if there's a store going on around here, but there's a tax killing out there, not here. That is why I support the government and its intention to increase pensions in proportion to GDP. I'm not a fake farmer. I'm not lying. There are fake Vlachs. This is the 2012 electoral list, none of the answers offered, it's a list of the Vlachs of the national minority. In second place is GV 1962, political analyst Novi Sad, I believe that viewers, you know who it's about. I said the new Serbian political thought for which the gentleman is working is the gentleman, that he was getting from "Lutrija Serbia" money the moment Boris Tadic shared it with his hand and hat. Here is the evidence – the 2009 Treaty, here is the payment of 2,400,000. So if I'm lying, the papers don't lie. So that's this gentleman, his name is Boris Tadic, and there's an obvious connection between the two of them and what I didn't get an answer for, and that's a violent change of government. Do you, and here it says that pensions are reduced against the constitution, and the Constitutional Court has said that everything is in accordance with the Constitution. So we MPs must respect the Constitution. We took an oath. I didn't get an answer to the question – did my colleague build on Bosko Obradovic's statement, which he called for a coup? He called on officers and police to execute the coup and to replace the legally elected president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, with a coup? So I didn't get an answer because the gentleman mentioned was the bearer of the list in the last election, the gentleman I was talking about and who called me a fake farmer. I invite him to come to my village, to use any of my agricultural machines from my collection and to sweat at least once honestly in his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44125	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour and we're back to work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Djokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44127	Thank you, Chairman. At first, I want to respond to the false and malicious insinuations of some opposition MPs who spoke yesterday and today, and by clarifying something. So the pension level wasn't acquired right. Pensions are acquired right and no one can lift them, reduce them, take them away, but their height is not acquired. The pension level is a variable category, can be greater or smaller, depending on the amount of money in the PIO Fund and in the budget. So it's an economic category and depends on the economic power of society. In a situation where there's not enough money in the PIO Fund, but a long time ago, not to repeat, for famous reasons, not household behavior, stealing, etc... The amount of money in the budget depends on whether the pension is lower or higher. It would be ideal, but at this point, it's unreal that they are, for example. PIO registers so filled up that they can be paid at a 100% rate without the need to add a missing difference from the budget, but unfortunately it is not. The question is whether it is so in many developed economic societies. The assets of the PIO Fund were destroyed during the long previous period so that it today is not a source of income, but because of maintenance costs, it generates expenditure, significant expenditure. At the same time, the relationship of employees and pensioners is very unfavourable, i.e. he is many pensioners, and few are employees who are full of the PIO Fund with their contributions. In these conditions, in order for pensions to be paid regularly, it must be handled from the budget. So, out of the country's economic power, the power of its economy, the number of new investments and newly opened factories, the increase in the number of employees and the size of their earnings depends on whether the amount of pensions can be increased. I end up, thanks to the successes today, first of all, Alexander Vukic and SNS can also increase pensions, but now from real sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44128	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ognjanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44129	Thank you, Chairman. In 2014, the Council adopted Serbia was facing bankruptcy and the adoption of the Pension Reduction Act was an economic decision allowing pensions and salaries to continue to be paid, and it was the only measure at that time that the crisis would stop, because 58% of the pension paid out of the budget. The results have been waiting, but we have managed to stabilize the situation in our budget and for the second year in a row we are recording a fiscal surplus. We have a growth in GDP in Serbia of 4.8% and a unemployment rate below 12%. Our country has taken the obligation to implement reforms to the end, to reduce the expenditures incurred by the poor management of public enterprises from previous periods, which we have found in ruins. Then, due to irrational expenditure in the public sector, due to unnecessary high costs, to ensure stability. Today, we have a completely different picture, we heal our economy, we have an incomparably larger number of employees, renovated, built factories and those being built. We have investors who are interested in investing in our economy, and that's why today's budget cuts out only 31% for pensions. We do not forget the oldest, those who have taught us and educated us and who are grateful for the expressed trust, accepting these difficult and unpopular reforms, which have saved us all together, current and future pensioners, but also these measures have helped to achieve financial stability and overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44130	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44131	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I have submitted another amendment to Article 2 which I would like to place an accent on underdeveloped areas, on the development of the same areas, because I think life in these areas has a future when more attention is given, when more investment is being invested, and finally, here today, Mr. Vukic, president, opens two companies that will employ thousands of people. These companies will have the opportunity to employ highly qualified experts, so it is the right move to invest, to work and thus provide conditions, to increase pensions, to allocate larger funds for staying people in our areas. Finally, I think by investing in the economy, by investing in agriculture where our agricultural producers, if invested and given larger subsidies in undeveloped areas, such as the municipality of Svrljig, such as the municipality of Gajin Han, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, Aleksinac, Sokobanja, Knjižec, Babusnica and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia. Believe me, there people will have the opportunity to deal more seriously with agriculture, to pay their own pension incomes from that agriculture, and to live from that agriculture, to create their families and to have a future there. Another big thing for all of us living in southeastern Serbia is investment in the economy. Here, I expect that by the end of October we will have the opportunity to open a new firm in Svrlig, which will be supported by the government, supported by the Ministry of Economy, with the support of the Serbian Development Agency, where 105 new jobs will be opened. The company's already in the process, it's taken up space, it's working on it, the workers have started training, so it's going to be one firm. Another company from Bulgaria has taken up space, bought space and will create new jobs with us with the aim of working in agriculture, investing in agriculture, in healthy food. A great opportunity for all our municipalities, which are in southeastern Serbia, is a healthy environment, healthy food and one thing that matters – nature has given us everything. We must use it by investing in that nature, by investing in agriculture. We have a chance to develop our villages, pension insurance in the coming period will have the opportunity to change for agricultural producers, that we will then give a great opportunity to develop agriculture, economy and develop southeast Serbia, and thus Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44132	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44133	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad to be able to continue in the same direction that I started with the previous amendment and explain some things because of the very rarely-filled benches on the other side and the further story of all these amendments, as it was, sustainable development. Sustainable development, perhaps they will wonder what sustainable development has to do with this topic. There is, and it's very big. Sustainable development speaks of many things, so they will show how someone in their time, from 2000 to 2012 took care of both the state and the finances, and how someone is ageing today and how they will take care of the future. Ensuring sustainable development in economic terms is achieving continued economic growth without or with very little inflation and increasing external debt. I think that's the definition that says everything, and it's just saying that we and this government and the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and we MPs of the majority, are doing this -- we are creating a future. Unfortunately, they sold everything we had in the industry from 2000 to 2012. They've left 400,000 people out of work, no pay, no enlistment. And day and day, and Minister Djordjevic knows it well because these people are talking to him, we link work experience to people who have worked fictitiously, who have not received salaries, who have not been paid a contribution either for social or for pension insurance. And now we're talking about pension heights. Thank God, the time has come for pensions to move forward, but thanks to the Serbian Progressive Party and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44134	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Charapic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44135	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous four years, the government of the Republic of Serbia, first led by the then prime minister and the current president, Aleksandra Vukic, and since June of last year, led by Mrs Ana Brnabic, has managed to achieve impressive results. Thanks to our government's making only economic and not political decisions, as the previous regime did, we are the second in Europe at the rate of economic growth, we managed to cut the unemployment rate, we have the most foreign reserves so far and we have a stable currency, the most stable in the region. So we succeeded from a country that was in an extremely difficult financial situation to become a leader in the region at a rate of economic growth. Thank our pensioners who have trusted us and who have borne the greatest burden when it comes to fiscal consolidation measures, because thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, structural reforms, thanks to digitisation, we have today managed to become a leader in the region by the inflow of foreign investment. In China alone, a week ago, a Serbian delegation led by President Aleksandar Vukic managed to conclude and sign 11 agreements worth over three billion dollars. It is defined for RTB Bor billion and $460m, for the Zrenjanin tire factory over a billion dollars, the construction of an industrial park in Borca, which will bring over a thousand Chinese companies and employ more than 10,000 workers. When it is added to the opening of a factory in Nis, it says that the government equally cares about all parts of Serbia, which is a feature of overall economic development, as is the amendment I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44136	Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Repac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The esteemed ministers of the Republic of Serbia, dear fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, the law on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today and these days, which attracted the public's attention most, is the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Invalidity Insurance. Aleksandar Vukic, speaking to pensioners this August, said - We are repealing the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction. The third year in a row, we have a surplus in the budget. Thanks to you, you knew we could get results through heavy measures. You opened the door to our country's future. This decision was difficult, but correct. Today, the Republic of Serbia is economically stable, with surpluses in the budget. The citizens supported and understood this decision by President Alexander Vukic. It should be said that, following this decision, in 2014, in the next parliamentary elections in 2016, the SNS increased its support in the electoral body of the Republic of Serbia by about 60,000 votes, which means that each polling post has received seven new votes. In the presidential elections, in 2017, Aleksandar Vukic won a plebiscite victory with about 55% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has risen. We are indisputable leaders in the region and the most favourable place for investors, thus providing this level of pension. The pensioners expect the state to strengthen them financially, provide them with and improve health care. It should not be forgotten that only a strong economy can provide better health care for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44138	Thank you. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) counterpart Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44139	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, the Serbian Progressive Party, has shown once again that it has kept its word. In 2014, so four years ago, we made a difficult but responsible and only possible move at that time, a move to save the little that was left. A decision reducing part of pensions and salaries in the public sector allowed the republican budget to recover and move forward. So it was at that point the only possible and correct decision, and the time after that showed. Meanwhile, Serbia is becoming a great place for investors, increased employment and a stable budget. Serbian citizens clearly understood this and supported this difficult but correct measure. The citizens realized they didn't live by colorful lies. And what does the former opposition offer and the former rule? They offer nothing but empty threats, demeaning anyone who is not with them and for them. At their gatherings we hear that most citizens are functionally illiterate, as some new revolution, some new violence, some new burning of state institutions, such as October 5th, and in the hall of this building you can see authentic images of their revolution and how they lead to a better tomorrow. Those same prime ministers are threatening to rape, and we're running around the streets. Media haranga is constantly being run in the media controlled by tycoons Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak. However, all this great majority of Serbian citizens recognise that support for these forces in Serbia is insignificant. Gentlemen, the answer to Serbia is simple, Serbia will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44140	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you'll allow order in the O.R. I can say that I was prepared to support this amendment in principle, although the government, of course, did not accept it, with an explanation as well as any other amendments that it refuses, had nothing to do with a member, or matter in that article. But that's a minor problem, that then the applicant of the amendment didn't try to take advantage of that time at least to praise the government, because we're kind of used to it, so it's used to using it to give a little more credit to the wise government's measures and policies, but then they're still on their way, not being challenged, to attack the opposition, to call people who don't have anything to do with what we're talking about. It's obvious that something's bothering me, as I would say, it's itchy. I have the impression that, despite my best wishes, I can't understand that you really can't understand that what you're doing is counterproductive, I'm going to begin to doubt some colleagues, I who aren't a member of this alliance, that you deliberately want Dragan Gilas to promote to the leader, since you keep talking about him here, so, constantly. I said, 77 times on Wednesday, I didn't count today. So, there's something bothering you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44142	My colleague Vukadinović, a colleague who spoke before you spoke much more about her amendment than you are now talking about, and your discussion is focused on her not sticking to her amendment, so I ask you to return to the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44143	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to take this, you haven't stopped me this hour, but I won't spend much time here, but I have to warn respected colleagues, if they play too much of these Rules of Procedures, advertising, etc., they have to suffer criticism. Well, do you think I or this other person can't use and wave to the Rules of Procedure and call on a few members who will give us the right to replicate. I don't want to continue the discussion. And, here, as a contribution to the constructiveity of the debate, indeed very constructively, I have remained obliged to ask Minister Djordjevic, because we cannot agree that he is in the O.R. and that I get a word for one concrete explanation, so this is and don't be angry, I think these are phantom amendments, and I got a lot of insults on the contrary...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44144	Mr Vukadinović, I beg you, the amendments are amendments, every MP has the right to submit an amendment, every MP has the right to discuss his amendment. You also have the right to submit amendments and to discuss other people's amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are no phantom amendments. Ask for a word to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44145	Mr. Arsic, thank you for teaching me, but we have submitted amendments, but of these such as fairy-tale amendments do not arrive at the work of a real amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44146	Now I give you a warning. The amendments are very real. Ask for the word again, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44147	It's very touching why you give Mr. Arsic a warning, but all right, that's your right, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44148	I warned you a few times to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44149	You've also tolerated two days of uninterrupted insult by opposition MPs here, including my smallness, because you're not giving them the right to replication. But, as I said, I promised these non-existent voters, friends, families, that I would ask Mr. Djordjevic a specific content question, and your colleagues were dealing with a serious debate as Balša Bozovic, for example, or as I did a few months ago, I wanted to...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44150	Sir, will you finally ask that question? I think you've been setting it up for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44151	What are you worried about, Mr. Arsic? How am I going to spend this little time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44152	Col. Vukadinovic, the job of the chairman is to make sure that the session takes place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. One of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure is that those who speak should stick to the subject of the agenda. I do have a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and I allow MPs through their discussion to say some things that are not in line with the agenda. But you didn't say one thing besides the conduct of your fellow MPs, you didn't mention the agenda at any given moment, you promise to ask the Minister and keep trying to continue as usual. Here, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44153	Your kindness and tolerance are business, Mr. Chairman, and when I return to the topic, I would ask Mr. Djordjevic, it will not change the world and save Serbia, but it is still more important than how Balsa Bozovic is dressed or me, or someone third here in the Assembly. So, Mr. Djordjevic, you said that these measures, the proposed measures, are all in favour of the pensioners or those whom others are and that there are none that are not in improving their status. I said, we welcome my colleagues, we welcome that this harmful law is lifted, but we don't support the fact that they're not returning from their pensions. So, what about those early pensioners, who didn't, who went into retirement, who had a full-time job, so they didn't start working very early, they worked 35 women and 40 years, and they're permanently cutting pensions just because they don't have years of age, so they have years of internships, and they don't have years of age, and they're not paying their pensions, not only until they're old age, which I would have accepted, because I would think that this is okay, but they're paying for their pens all their lives, that is, by the end of their retirement. You've taken a step, and I'd like to welcome it, if at least some occupations, so at least some professions that have a well-favoured job experience that allow them to be punished for it, and then the full amount of pension is calculated for them. But it's also some sort of, I'd say division, separation between...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44154	Ambassador, I'm not Veroljub Arsic, he's such a broader understanding of the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44155	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44156	You can't finish at all. What you're saying is, I've been hearing this for a long time, but in my office.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44157	So I asked Mr. Djordjevic about this topic of debate and this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44158	No, you have no idea what you've been talking about for hours...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44159	I have a very good idea, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44160	Since you haven't been to Parliament at all. When you came here, you gave yourself the right to talk about whatever you wanted because you hated being there when it came to that. Third, you deceive the public and say – me and my colleagues. I don't see who your colleague is here in parliament, there's no one from the opposition because he hates everything together to come here to parliament and argue with the amendments, not the bill in general. We have finished this debate and we are discussing the amendments on the third day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44161	But my time is running, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44162	Don't interrupt me. Well, time can't be used the way anyone will, because we're not a bar, we're not a market, we're a parliament. You're going to talk about amendments or you can't waste time on whatever you think of. That may have been the case during Dragoljub Micunovic, or later, but during my presidency, amendments and points will be discussed. So what you're trying to do isn't working out.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44163	Ma'am, if I were you... Please take my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44164	I take no one's time, you take away Serbian citizens' time. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go. You have to sign up before I give you my word, because I don't see any MPs unless they sign up. You didn't do it until now. So you have to sign up to get the word, and Gjorge Vukadinovic signed up in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44165	As it has been known in Serbia for five years, so-called A regional housing programme aimed at addressing the housing needs of the biggest victims of war, expelled Serbs through four visions, through building apartments, through the assignment of assembly houses, through the purchase of rural properties and through the assignment of a package of construction materials for the completion of houses. Unfortunately, the programme is largely implemented very slowly in the good work and unquality and therefore had a great dissatisfaction and indignation of refugee families because of this fact. I'm going to name just one example, we have 302 refugee families in Belgrade waiting years to be delivered building material to finish their houses, it hasn't happened yet. As early as December 2013, the Paris Donors' Assembly decided to settle the 715 families in Belgrade for the 302 refugee families mentioned above instead of getting the material back in 2015, that, I repeat, they were finishing their houses, here it is in 2018, and they still haven't received that material. I'm trying to talk to a competent institution, and that's the project management unit -- JUP and the Refugees Committee -- to sort it out. Unfortunately, neither JUP nor the Commissioner for Refugees have solved these problems so far, and now there is the only address left, that is President Vukic, and we will try to solve this problem from President Vukic's office in the next few days and finally 302 refugee families will receive packages of building material to finish their houses. I repeat, five years since the Donors' Assembly received funds for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44166	Thank you. Member of the 2nd Amendment was sent by Member Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44167	Thank you. I am glad that due to the failed attempt, although a small number of colleagues, we are returning to the topic, returning to what is on the agenda of this session and what is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. My amendment refers to personnel resources, i.e. integrated management in this area, in order to improve the services of the PIO Fund when it comes to this area. Therefore, constant integration of the human resources management process should result in the PIO Fund successfully meeting user requirements both for services and for requested information. We must bear in mind that at all times the ability to achieve the objectives set by any organisation depends on both the concept and the organisation's plan to manage the development of its intellectual capital, or human resources. Those organisations that understand this process well have both results and significant advantages from those organisations that are not the primary objective. So the key question is what are we going to do with them and how do we encourage them to create conditions and improve human resource management? My view is that it is best to make a legal solution and therefore I have submitted an amendment adding a new position 4 in Article 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, because I believe that this amendment is further defined by Article 2 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44168	On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Olivera Pesic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44169	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic is the creation of new factories and new jobs. In Serbia, around 80 factories and 150,000 new jobs have been opened since the SNS led by the country. Today and tomorrow in Nis, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic opens two new factories that will employ about 3,000 new workers in the next two years, and these new jobs are the guarantee of stable pensions in the coming period, and these new jobs are actually a guarantee that pensioners can count on increasing pensions in the coming period. It is a socially responsible policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia and led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Socially responsible policy is to pay out pensions from real sources and increase pensions from real sources, not how our predecessors worked until 2012 to increase pensions from credit. Pensioners understood why pensions had to be reduced, because the state was on the verge of bankruptcy and today pensioners understand that pension increases can only be counted on from real sources, depending on financial opportunities and thank them for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44170	Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44171	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. Today we are talking about receiving people who are the oldest in our country, receiving people who, thanks primarily to responsible financial policy, today, or in the coming period, will get an increase in their pensions. What is particularly important and what I would like to point out is that, first of all, this financial discipline that adorns this government and the government led by Mr. Alexander Vukic is something that has managed to make exactly these moves. We're talking about this law today, and it's essentially the most important thing that's happened in some earlier period and what happens every day. Today we are witnessing the opening of two new factories in Nis, which will employ over 1,100 workers in the first act. We are witnessing the solution of the Smederjev Ironworks, which today is practically the bearer not only of development in Braničev County, but also of the whole country. We are witnessing the departure of the President of the Republic to China, where he was able to sign a $1.4 billion agreement with the Chinese to take over the RTB Bor, then a $1.4 billion contract for investment in the grain economy, the Shanghai firm, one billion contract for the 100 million-dollar zinc processing plant, an Icarbus contract worth 2.6 million contract with the Huaway transport control company. Generally, it was all something that was a prerequisite for these steps of today's government, so I personally think that this increase represents only one initial basis for further increases and for further progress not only to say these groups of people, therefore, the oldest, but to all in this country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44172	Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44173	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, the law amending the Law on PIO certainly constitutes a significant law and I therefore propose an amendment to Article 2 concerning the contribution that Serbian citizens pay under mandatory pension insurance. Sixty percent of pensioners have never actually had a pension reduction. After the first year of pension growth, another 10% of pensioners never had less pensions than in 2014. During this period, pensions increased by 8%. When we adopt this law today, the pension will increase by 8.8%, i.e. by 13.2%, and somehow today, in this debate, a statement by the finance minister is passing by, saying that in the next period of time, there will be a reduction of obligations based on labour tax. That's what we in SNS promised. When the time of fiscal consolidation passes, we will have to recover everything we practically had to do in 2014 and reduce taxes and contributions. The government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, has an average lower labour tax than the central European countries, but we will make an effort to make these taxes and contributions even smaller. That, of course, won't reflect the pension level. Pensions in the coming period will certainly grow, but at the same time the contributions will be smaller, which is all about the fact that the level of employment is growing and the level of pay is growing and in these conditions one of the things that we can afford as a state is that we begin to think about the presentations of my distinguished colleague Jokic whose economic thinking sometimes seems ahead of his time, but certainly the economic situation in Serbia allows us to accept them sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44174	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MEP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44175	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, amendments and additions to the Law on PIO continues the process of normative editing in the area of PIO. The main objective of these changes is to adapt mandatory PIOs as the most important part of the pension system to demographic change, economic circumstances, but also with the strategic definition of the state to establish a modern and efficient administration. Thanks to the austerity, effort and work measures and responsible policy of our President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the possibility of further payment of pensions is created without diminishing and from real sources. In 2008, during the rule of the former regime, one disastrous and irresponsible pension decision increased four times. They were so much increased that they affected 2% of GDP and led to the fact that the participation of pensions in GDP that year was 13.4% and since then started all the problems of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, moving to grow public debt, moving to grow the deficit that culminated in 2012. Fortunately, Serbian citizens know all this well, and in all elections they give absolute support to SNS and Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44176	The National MP Dr Branimir Rancic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44177	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected ministers with his associates, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO encourages the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to improving health conditions. The proposed Article 2 relating to Article 15, which eliminates the problems arising from the untimely check-out of insurance undertakings which have acquired that property exclusively in compulsory insurance pursuant to Article 15. The law avoids the establishment of debts resulting from this on the basis of the name of outstanding contributions on pension and disability insurance, which means that the insurance ceases on the day for which the person in the claim is defined or if the contribution on the salary is made within six months of the day of arrival and at the earliest with the last day for which the contribution is paid. This introduces fiscal discipline, and these resources can be invested in terms of health and social security, which can indirectly improve health conditions. When it comes to health conditions, it should be said, in this sense, special attention and effort should be focused, among other things, on the primary health care of our oldest. To subdue, the complete reconstruction of the health care home, Serbia's largest primary health care facility cost 120m dinars, but to complete one investment, it was also necessary to do an appropriate parking space. Now, there's the construction of an assembly two-storey garage worth 300 million dinars, which will solve the patient's arrival problem for review, and indirectly improve health conditions during treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44178	Thank you. The second amendment was submitted by Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers with co-workers, co-workers and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has a budget surplus for the third year in a row and the conduct of responsible economic policy has created room for increasing pensions on a healthy basis. This has proved the high maturity of this government to make decisions not on a political basis, but on an economic real basis. These changes give us a chance that our oldest citizens can get bigger pensions if the results in the economy are better. Those who criticise this proposal for amending and supplementing the law and, in general, the policy that led to a healthy basis for increasing pensions should be deeply pictured and remembered that the way they managed the budget would be empty, and pensions would probably be a mental noun. Those who have made a debt in the city of Belgrade of 1,120 billion euros, those against whom criminal charges have been filed for disagreements in spending budgets totalling 590m dinars and 44,000 euros in Sapac, a total of about 5m euros, or one against whom the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has been held on suspicion that, as the organiser of the criminal group, has damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia at 61m euros, certainly are not people who would be trusted to run the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia and again lead us to bankruptcy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44180	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44181	Thank you, President. Here, it is the third day that the debate takes place in particular on the proposed law, and it is the third day that we are mostly without the presence of these experts across the street, by the wave of representatives of the former regime, except for one who is active today, and is trying to gain the status of a striker named Gilas, even to disrupt the glory of one who already has such an epithet. But what's more important than that is that today's eighth day is from that scandalous tweet, or social networking, and the eighth day that we've been denied the condemnation of such an act. So there are no representatives of the former regime today to condemn such a thing, there are neither here in the Assembly nor in the debate, nor in the media, nor, as I said, in the Serbian Parliament, nor anywhere. And today, we're going to be deprived of something like that. But what is good is that citizens have the opportunity to see that it is the essence of their political programme, that it is their political platform and that it is the only message they are able to send to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44182	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44183	I don't know, you weren't listening. A colleague managed to break his own record without mentioning a single word of the amendment. I mentioned his amendment, so I talked more about the amendment. But I have to tell you, colleague Markovic, I don't know if you're doing this on purpose or not, you've produced or produced here Dragan Gilas as some leader of the opposition, not me, because you keep talking about him and don't take him out of your mouth. I never mentioned him once. On the other hand, this debate, do you understand, is it no wonder that we have reached the second member of this debate? I think citizens should understand. We have what time belongs to the parliamentary groups, it is 15 minutes per group, but there is a time of 600 minutes spent on amendments, on amendments submitted, and the point is to spend that time, and to talk exactly as colleagues have now spent it. With all the understanding and political struggles and everything else, it's a waste of time, not my 15 minutes, that I've deployed like this, and I've pissed off my colleagues across the street. When I said masochism, I didn't mention that you were a masochist, but I said don't expect us to be so masochists. I'm the only one here now, probably not gonna be me either. Don't be surprised when your opposition doesn't sit at sessions like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44184	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44185	Replica, yes. He mentioned the name directly twice. I am truly sorry, the chairman, that the previous speaker always feels called upon to mention Dragan Gilas and as a sharp jump and needs to defend himself, to react. But what I'm saying again, the positive side of all this is that we've gotten that situation naked. Now it's clear to all of us, both the citizens of Serbia and us here, that he is here alone and only representing Dragan Gilas. He counts here how many times we've mentioned Dragan Gilas, so he's dated some concrete numbers. It's obviously his job. Apparently, in every mention of Dragan Gilas and his attempt to defend him, he gets some compensation for it. Now I wouldn't go into those internal options of theirs. However, the minor problem is whether we, with a minute or two minutes of reporting on the amendment, spent no time on Serbian citizens. The bigger problem is that they all spent 12 years of Serbian citizens together as they exercised power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44186	Don't knock on the water heater, so you won't be turned off.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44187	Listen, I've already received a warning here on the justice of God, I can also bang on the taster. I thank my colleagues for their kind response, although he has avoided mentioning me, so again, unfortunately, I am wasting this time of the parliamentary group. Don't go away, don't insinuate. I said you should mention, you don't take Gilas out of your mouth. But, in order not to piss you off, or to disappoint you, I really think that, now, squeeze your teeth, that Dragan Gilas was not the bad mayor of Belgrade. That's one thing. But you can have a different political opinion, as I could, too, of my colleague Markovic, to draw some conclusions from the fact that some MPs here are constantly attacking, say, the mayor, one of the two, three presidents of the municipality in which the opposition is in power, and some think it has something to do with some tycoons that didn't get jobs in those municipalities. So let's leave it alone, dear colleagues. I asked Mr. Djordjevic a direct question, which was really about this. I support the abolition of this law. I'm sorry there won't be any retirement returns. But citizens need to know that this is some kind of obstruction conducted by the parliamentary majority. I can get as much notice or punishment as you want, I won't give it up. And you know I'm right, and the good part, and you're kind of ashamed that you have to endure those amendments. And, I think it would be good if when we start a regular session, we give up that practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44188	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44189	Thank you. The speaker says we need to be ashamed. No, on the contrary. We don't need to be ashamed of anything. We are proud of all our results, all the results of this government and our President, Alexander Vukic. None of us hides our pride. We have no reason to be ashamed of anything, absolutely. The only one who has reason to be ashamed of something is your coalition partners, all in a row, and those who sit a little closer to you and those on your other side, all of your coalition partners whom, by the way, the boss and the employer Dragan Gilas. Here, I'm mentioning it again. You have a chance to try to defend him again. You're the only one who has the right to be ashamed, to be ashamed of you for not getting your strength and humanity eight days after a scandalous tweet, one of the most recent so far, to condemn him, to at least fence yourself from it, but no, you continue to show understanding. Some of yours continue with new tweets like Jesic, which we have talked about several times from here. When it comes to that methodology of calculating the fee for defending the character and part of Dragan Gilas from the previous speaker, I believe that the next methodology is, 2% probably of the fee for the failed defense attempt, 77 times. So here's the previous speaker is one salary and a half already at a loss. That is the reason for his attempt to defend the character and actions of Dragan Gilas and his anxiety today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44190	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. Parliament member Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44191	I thank the president. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the pension and disability insurance system must be seen as part of a major state system in which all segments are somehow causally connected. First of all, I mean the economy and the problem of unemployment. I gave this introduction on purpose because I want to say that today is a big day for the city of Nis. Today and tomorrow, two new factories are opening up in Nis. The Austrian company Cumtobel already employs about 300 people in Nis, and still 1,100 jobs have been opened today. I'm talking about an investment worth 30.6m euros. Today, Aleksandar Vukic, at the opening of the factory in Nis, said he is proud of new jobs, the transport of this factory, which will be around 120m euros, and that this is of great importance not only to the city of Nis, but to the entire Republic of Serbia. The Filipino company Imi will open in Niška Banja on an area of about 14,000 square meters and will employ 1,250 workers, 500 of whom will be engineers. So the city of Nis is getting closer to achieving a plan to bring the current 26,000 unemployed down to below 20,000. Also, Nis is ahead of foreign investment as about 150m euros have been invested in the past few years, nine new factories with more than 10,000 jobs opened. I would also like to point out that the negotiations on new factories, new jobs are being filled in by a pension fund. At the moment, the city of Nis is working on more than 30 infrastructure projects worth more than 100m euros. I am very sorry that I am not in Nis today at the opening of the factory, but here I can also fight for the policy I support, which is a policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44192	The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation of this amendment to the SRS, I will begin with one sentence that I have received, or more messages have come to me from the citizens of Serbia, primarily from the pensioners. They say this -- MPs of the ruling coalition again humiliate Serbian pensioners, insulting dignity, the intelligence of Serbian citizens. What does that consist of in their further comment? They recognized that this is not a law on raising pensions, this is a law that will lead to illegal and against constitutional retirement by Serbian citizens. Here it was heard, it is also the legitimate right of one fellow MP, it is MP Jokic who says – between the formula and the budget, it is defined for the budget and it is quite fine, but the nature of the pension is not something that is solidarity, it is not something that arises from the poor position of one individual, it is a right acquired. For what reason do they say that neither the President of the Republic nor the Ministers nor the People's MPs are thanking us anymore, which is why the citizens of Serbia are asking for it? It's just because they didn't accept. This was not an agreement and a contract with Serbian citizens, primarily pensioners to cut pensions. It was by passing one law done, taken from them, they had to accept it. We could, or the ruling majority, otherwise replace those funds taken from pensioners in the PIO fund and that they would not be damaged. I remember a statement by the President of the Republic when a subcontractor or a fountain contractor did not pay the employees and he said – we cannot force the employer to pay the salary. Yeah, it's another relationship. This could be achieved by the employer, i.e. the employee through inspection bodies and could be achieved through the conduct of court proceedings, but taxes and contributions to earnings, that is, public income. Public income is realised in one completely different way. The state here has the opportunity to force every unconscious employer to settle his obligations and pay off his pensions. Second, someone here said there's going to be a tax cut and a profit reduction coming soon. That is true, but that is what foreign investors are asking you to do, according to the largest number of foreign investors, it stands out for five years as far as they were exempt from taxes and contributions or part of obligations based on personal income. Now they want to stay in Serbia to ask the Serbian state to cut their commitments to profits, so that they remain there. We need to pay much more attention to domestic investors and pensioners not to cheat. Here, as you thank yourselves, you may apologize to them and try to return to them what was taken without any legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44194	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44195	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these few days we've been listening to each other in this room, how this government, namely its president, has achieved epochal successes on our budget and our pensioners. However, I have not heard from any of the ruling majority MPs that the name of the Prime Minister of this government, Ana Brnabic, has been mentioned, but rather, the name of the president of this country, Alexander Vukic, although we know that according to the Constitution, fiscal and any other policy is run by the government, but not by the President, but well, so much for your consistency. All of us in this room agree with the fact that we need to ensure a carefree and secure future for our pensioners, however, the amount and the amount of retirement, even though they are insufficient for one normal life, is not what bothers our pensioners the most. Our pensioners today, in addition to living with their spouse, have the obligation to support the rest of their households because in many Serbian families, the only constant and only sure retirement is. It's the kind of thing that puts our pensioners in such a difficult situation. On the other hand, I have heard no one from here or from the representatives of the government or the ministers, which is another fact about our pensioners, which is, in recent times, the appearance of a growing number of people who are suffering from diseases that have not been so represented before, and these are various diseases of dementia, and that should also be taken into account when it comes to our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44196	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44197	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and this amendment of mine aims to define in a better and more precise way the text of the law so that it can be understood to those most concerned. It is about old people who have earned their right and who want to know why they have pensions and what they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44198	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Stojanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44199	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment of mine aims to define in a better and more precise way the text of the law, in order for it to be understood to those most concerned. It is about old people who have earned their right and who want to know why they have pensions and what they have. The vast majority of pensioners have been able to do their job in a safe way and it is not right for someone to mess with their well-deserved pensions, their pensions acquired by reducing and increasing them beyond the prescribed procedure. There are a large number of pensioners who have worked 35 to 40 years, some of whom have not had a day of sick leave or some other form of job leave. I'm one of those myself. I've done all my duties neatly and in time, which I do and now as a National MP, which you could see in this room. That's why it's so important for me to have all the relevant facts about pensions and pensioners in front of me. This doesn't matter to me, my pension is bigger than my average pension, it's important to me because of my fellow pensioners who can't live on their pensions. Pensioners built this country and contributed to the highest cost of social product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44200	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44201	We're here to discuss amendments to the proposed law, and there's no Registrar. I don't see the point of why here, especially the MPs of the SRS would possibly ask some questions or resolve some dilemmas, when there is no Secretary of Justice. It may be that one of the chairmans or some other resor will do us good, but it doesn't do us any good. It's about the next one. In this law, it is defined when insurance obligations under the pension fund cease, defined when and under what conditions can be used so-called. A well-defined internship, a lot of these things have been defined, but what is not defined has not been defined by which rules will in future be paid for any increase in pensions. It is not defined how and how, by which criteria will be paid and helped with pensions. Who's going to decide? Here, the minister is finally here. Happy are our eyes to see him, especially if we expect him to give answers, possibly, how do we interpret that this is the discretionary right of the government? We've been listening to a lot of discussions here. It has been said that this is a revolutionary turn when it comes to pension payments, until, if it wasn't for these authorities, there would be no pensions at all. There are many examples in the past where power is glorified, where individuals are glorified, but, God forbid, you're shoulder to shoulder with those examples. Earlier, there were examples of us as financial knowers or those who have rarely been able to profit from the global financial crisis, and the glory of individuals, even when the late Tito died that one of the MPs said that cows died when they heard Tito died, and later they came to their senses thanks to the rapid intervention of the current government. There are different examples, but we cannot listen to these praises, but are looking on the basis of which criteria will the Government decide and who will be given these increases, or help the short-term individual pensioners? Are they all, or are they individuals? If it's individuals, what are the criteria?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44202	By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44203	I thank the chairman. Only from the second time I tried to ask Mr. Djordjevic a question, referring to what he said earlier. So that's one question that's smaller, perhaps, a rank of importance for most, but, God, for those people who are very important, more important than these outwittings of ours, sometimes justified, sometimes pointless supersedes. So we have people who worked fair 18, 20 years and 40, 35 years retired, early, because they don't have years of training. Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you and I expect you to answer me. I'm very specific. For some categories of the benefits, you have corrected the injustice, and I welcome it, that is, commending it. So, they can't be punished for having an unfettered job experience. It's an interim correction. I'm the last one who thinks all the laws are bad, everything that comes from the government, and everything that the opposition suggests is good. No, I don't. But whatever. I think it's bad that they remain categories and that you double people with years of training, but they don't have years of age. And to them, I repeat and end it, it permanently decreases, so, still, it remains a permanent reduction in pension. I expect your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44204	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44205	Thank you for both questions. I hear it. I've been here the whole time. The MPs know very well that I listen to what they say very carefully, and I follow to answer every one of your questions, because that is exactly why this debate is served. And I'm glad I can explain everything you don't understand. When it comes to the benefits of an internship, you're right. And this is right now the removal of that injustice that existed, and that's for those who were with the benefits of working time so that they could catch up with their age, that they could be admitted, that they didn't have a penal. Penalties exist everywhere in Europe when it comes to pensions and you set two criteria. It's one year's work, the other is the age limit they need to experience to retire. We would be unfair to those who say that meeting one of these conditions is enough and that, in such conditions, we admit that there is a full pension. It's simply the most just way something can work. We didn't invent it, nor is this something Serbia invented, but it exists everywhere. And I have to remind you, you may have forgotten, or maybe you didn't know, but in Yugoslavia the old one existed there until about eighty years ago. So, pens and what they say should exist or a dilemma about whether or not they exist is exactly the most just thing for those who respect and respect both age and employment and when they meet both things are retired. Any other encounter would be a rule of injustice, a rule would be an exception that would then introduce one negative rule to exploit it and everyone would find themselves. So we have to follow some rules, the rules are what they are, but they apply to all of us and to all of Serbia's citizens. When it comes to one-time assistance, it is intended to be given under certain special circumstances, to all pensioners, there is no exception. When one-time assistance and that member of the law says that the Government of the Republic of Serbia under special conditions, if there are financial resources in the PIO Fund's budget to give one-time assistance to all pensioners. As for this second increase, which you say, that second increase that exists, it is allocated within 0.3% that owns the same RF PIO and is given to a particular category of pensioners if there is a possibility that they can be given. Don't get into the basics and don't get into retirement rights, it's just temporary character.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44206	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44207	Thank you. So as not to remain unspoken, there is no discretionary right to the government given to this. It is an attempt by all opposition MPs to keep repeating that it is a discretionary right of 0.3% of GDP, which will be divided in addition to this pension. These are simply economic possibilities of a budget that currently has very good results. We hope that in the coming year there will be even greater results and that this division of that supplement will be even greater. So will it apply to everyone, of course it will apply to all pensioners. Secondly, it is a completely irrelevant fact and a flossula one that keeps repeating itself here – pensioners have earned their pension honestly. Excuse me, but who unfairly earned his pension? I guess every pensioner who's acquired the right to get a pension solution has made a fair profit based on his work. Therefore, for us all pensioners are the same. We treat them extremely responsibly, from the budget based on the law in the budget system, we give that supplement, and it can't go past 11% of GDP, that's where we define it, and that's what explains the opposition's constant story of how we're now sharing it for, I don't know, political points. No political points. We saved Serbia's budget and the collapse of Serbia's economy as we knew and knew it. Having the support of Serbian citizens and all pensioners is because the SNS, led by Aleksandra Vukic, has indeed proved to be extremely responsible and has come out extremely honestly with its political platform as it should be done. This has not gone hand in hand since politicians, because they have all dealt with themselves, not the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, I think that this way that the proposal for amendments and additions of the PIO has been implemented when it comes to increasing pensions and returning, i.e. abolishing the 2014 decision, shows the will of the Serbian government to have the opportunity to pension what they really deserve at this point, to bring pensions into line with the increase. Now, that's the right answer to questions whether it applies to all pensioners. Of course it applies to all pensioners, and it will always apply to all pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44208	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44209	Just for real information, the one-time assistance given from the PIO fund budget is given to all pensioners, so when there is a need for it, the government can make a decision. There is another increase in pensions provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the budget, meaning, located in the Ministry of Finance, if it needs to be given a category. Now watch what it was, it used to be misused by some governments, when necessary, giving such things before the elections, and giving unlimited and increasing and multiple times a year, giving such a kind of, let me say, increase. Now, that's why, in order to avoid abuse, we talked to the IMF, it's only limited to 0.3% of GDP. So you can say that you give to everyone, you can give both work and category, and you can explain it to certain things, by revenue in the budget, by surplus in the budget, by the possibility of giving, by the need for something that happens in the country, by elemental disasters, by works in the territory, and so on, because that's the only way you can cover yourself so that you don't discriminate against other categories. You don't give it from the PIO Fund, you give it from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and you give it in circumstances when you say why you give it. One-time help exists, and that member of the law, he's given to everyone. Also, it is not a discretionary right of the government to raise pensions for everyone whenever anyone wants to and that the government is doing so with its regulation. An increase in pensions is taking place, the government is passing a law that you MPs will hear with reason and vote whether you want to increase or not, and it applies to all pensioners. There's no exception, we don't disturb the pension system, there's no such thing as what the fiscal council said would collapse into anything. So, there's the only possibility to do that, is by law in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44210	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. According to the amendment, he has the right to speak.. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. Do you want a replica? Here's your line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44211	We've made something clear here that was a big dilemma, and we can see that there's also a discrepancy when it comes to the ruling coalition. Here, the minister explained finely that the GDP growth and that 0.3% of the government can only share certain categories. When it comes to increasing, one-time hikes, then the government can use its discretionary right to all pensioners, which is the discretionary right of the government. What's here? Here's the basis, that's what the minister should say, here is the basis of GDP, of GDP growth, and we have nothing against it, but we need to know the model, what it is. In order to say – in the case of GDP growth, redistribution of the resources under 0 may occur. 3% of that GDP, and pensions return to 2014 level. Now, what's the point? The bottom line is that many think that all pensioners will be equally assigned not only to this one-time, so-called help, but also to this 0.3% increase. It's impossible, for the simple reason, because it's too small a percentage, or a level of funding, that all 1,700,0000,00 pensioners could use those funds. They are still conditioned in some subsequent explanation, if GDP rises above 4%, as we understand it, that's the point. Just to be clear, the basis is not to increase the cost of life, it's not to increase prices, it's to increase GDP. It is the only basis and returns the pension level to 2014. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44212	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44213	First, to avoid confusion, there is no turning pensions back to 2014. Meanwhile, there's been an increase in pensions, that's what you know how many times, three times, and pensions have increased. So, 207a says – it is proposed that in terms of the existence of fiscal space, users of age, premature, age disabled, family pensions increase incomes, so all are covered, by paying the cash amount as pension increases depending on the economic movements and financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with funds for these purposes not being higher than 0.3% of GDP per year. Which means, on an annual level, there's no aspirations to be much more. It can be given multiple times, but up to 0.3% and only if the surplus is in the budget can we give. In case there's a deficit in the budget, you can't give it. It's very simple. We promised the pensioners, if it gets better for the state, they'll get better too. We want them to wait until they change the law, which we expect every year, when at the end of the year we bring down the accounts and we see, and I believe that we will be in plus every year from now on, and that we will all work diligently and that every year this Parliament will bring an increase in pensions. Until then, in the course of the year, if we create the possibilities of surpluses, other than giving for kindergartens, hospitals, building infrastructures, in other things, we can also give pensioners. It's not their right to gain, it's not their pension, it's just an increase that we can give by the time we make a decision here in the Assembly to be a permanent character. But we don't have any aspirations and we don't have the opportunity to do it, like some people used to do it, we have the imagination to be, so before the elections it's a lot more than the state can be. If we as a state profit, profit and show results, we want to share these results with our citizens as well. Serbian citizens are also pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44214	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Comrade Mircic, come on, here's another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44215	Let me get this straight. You decidently claim there is no going back to 2014. There's no word literally, but the 2014 pension base is coming back. So, the basis that was in 2014, with all these increases and all that's been going on in the past, is it coming back? In 2014, the minister now says, as it is not heard in the transmission, the minister confirms this. So, in 2014, plus all these increases that were in the meantime, on a reduced basis. Now returns to the base from 2014. Just so it's clear to the pensioners, that people know that they're going to be accounted for and what's going to come back to them, that it's not gonna be that -- there's no going back to 2014. There are returns based on 2014, with this increase not being lifted. Now, here remains the dilemma that the government and what criteria it will have that, conditionally speaking, it will use its discretionary right for this one-time aid. On the basis of which criteria, whether it will be a surplus of the budget, whether it will be a rise in GDP, whether it will be a rise in price, cost of life, we need to see that the government says -- it will be criteria or a combination of all these elements and others, so it will say -- and therefore, one-time assistance. This is the essence of our question, or dilemma that pensioners have.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44216	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44217	I think this government has shown by its responsible behavior now that only in conditions where it has a surplus and has a real source where it can pay for something, that it does so in such situations. I guess that's what we've concluded so far, and that with only such work and such a relationship to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we have managed to consolidate the budget and to boast today that this government has success and that we have a surplus in the budget. So that's on a real basis. This is exactly what we wanted to put, that rule, that it applies not to this government, but also to all future governments, that they can't behave like the governments of the 2000s, and that they do when they want to, or they do, in order to pay off their pensions, and then some next government will come back and say that they've paid off some pensions, and they forget that it was the Paris and London Club, to forget that they've been taking unfavourable loans, we've forgotten all that, to forget that we've sinned in 2008, that we've paid off the wrong pensions, so that now some other government is returning. Well, if that didn't happen anymore, then at least they have some limitations, so aspirations just don't have them. So, we don't want some future governments to act so uninhabited towards the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because these are the money of Serbian citizens, they're not someone else's. As for the increase, the best example tells you, here, we'll take any amount, 37,000 who had a pension today of 37,004 dinars, he'll have a pension after this 39,926 dinar. So, who had 37,000 in 2014, now they're going to have 39,926. Did I say that right? That tells you clearly how much the increase is. So it's not much of a comeback. It was increasing in the meantime, so we didn't raise that smaller pension, so now we're off and they say that now it's true. It always existed and we didn't want to hide anything from the pensioners, we told them – this is what it will be when the state gets on its feet and it will be bigger than you had. That promise is now done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44218	Thank you, Minister. The word is Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44219	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand. One part of the pension is paid out of the PIO fund, proportionate to pre-retirement payments, the other part of the 30 per cent pension is paid out of the budget, donations, of all citizens, not just by insurance companies. So that 30% is paid by all citizens, and those with the lowest pensions, say, farmers. The smallest pension, I think, is 14,000, and the farm is about 11,000 dinars. In order for the government to be able to help the most vulnerable categories, it can single out funds only for farmers and the lowest pensions, thus reducing the range, because when you increase pensions by 10%, the one that has a pension of 100,000 or 110, it gets an increase of 11,000 dinars. When you increase farmers 10%, it gets 1,100 dinars, thus creating a growing and larger difference. The government has left room for it to come from the amount we talked about, if we earn more than we've spent, to channel those funds by helping the most vulnerable categories, and I believe that it will be those with the smallest pensions, and that it will be those whose working life lasts for 70 years, that it will be farmers and that the Government will, at the end of the year, if we do well, help them and all pensioners with small pensions and increase and provide a more dignified age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44220	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Let's move on to the next amendment. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44221	Article 3 is, I suppose, the last of this bill that will be discussed in the first place, and it speaks about the effective work experience of insurance workers working in places where the insurance internship counts with increased duration, etc. Beneficiary internship. We think it's a good idea for miners first of all to recognize this internship, but not two-thirds, but the absolute internship they spent there because it has to be known that, let's say, someone who works in the mine and at 50 needs to retire, that this man can't work anywhere anymore, and there's nothing to do in those mining places, and there's a lot to do, and there's a lot of power, unfortunately, and health in such difficult jobs. In that sense we have submitted the amendment, but well, the amendment is not accepted, it's actually not good, but that's just how it works. Again today, we have listened here from the MEPs how good it is to put out the pension law. Of course it's good, and none of us are going to say it's not good that now with that November pension people are going to receive a bigger pension than this last one was, say. But that law was never allowed to be passed. It should never have happened that four years of pensioners had these reduced pensions. You know, these are quite the consequences of the pensioner's life, of their potential duties, etc. What are we listening to today? The best government in the world, president of the best in the world, everything works best in the world, simply, I think we envy the whole planet. They say those in power, of these new pensions, how this will affect the overall development of the state, and then says – especially the development of the travel network. Look, there's gonna be a pension of 2,000 dinars to someone, and that's going to reflect positively on the development of the travel network. What are they going to give those 2,000 dinars to build a road? Well, then for agriculture. How can it affect agriculture and farmers will still have no more than 11,000 dinar pensions? Then it will reflect on the judiciary, with a special view of the judiciary. How? How can it affect the judiciary? No pensioners work in the judiciary, people who are employed there, judges, who are chosen to be judges. Unless you thought there'd be court rulings on pensioners' lawsuits to give them back what didn't come back to them in the meantime from those funds. Well, for preschools, for a better life for refugees. Imagine, this pension law will have something to do with the lives of the refugees and exiled persons who, if retired, receive pensions from where they came from. Don't, people, make fun of serious things. Yesterday we told you, praise your government, praise your president, praise your ministers, but the citizens of Serbia and, Mr. Djordjevic, say well when you read it, quote a member of the law, that there is no obligation to increase pensions, there is no obligation to coordinate pensions, coordination does not have to be an increase, and that this will be done every year in accordance with the state of the budget. We've been saying this for four days, these MPs of yours who are going to vote for this bill say we're wrong. Minister, you remain obliged to answer one question, and it concerns the check and control of disability pensions. There have been stories from Mr. Vulin's previous minister, and then from you that you're seriously going to do this job, so it would be nice to hear the details of what you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44222	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44223	I'm sorry I didn't answer that day, but thank you for that question again. As for the control of disability pensions, based on the Ministry of Labour's instructions, it's over. It was reviewed in the first-degree process through 81,824 cases and all cases have been reviewed since 1990. 5.315 users were invited for a checkup. No response was received to review 1.174, no response to repeated call 160, 4.141 users were reviewed, a confirmed score of 3.857 was not confirmed for 284. For the entire period, 360 pensions were suspended, of which 160 people were suspended because they did not respond to a repeated call. For 16 users, case files were forwarded to the prosecution for the initiation of criminal charges. So it was all over on December 29, 2017. As for increasing this, which you say, only that the citizens of Serbia know and that we end this issue. We had previously in the law the harmonisation of pensions, so some authorities, before us, in 2000, frozen it so that the guarantee to pensioners, except for mere promises, although written in the law, was not something that some authority that was irresponsible, and worked and implemented and found a way for the Assembly to vote and not implement it and that there was no increase. We're not saying there's no increase. We just don't want this group that's missing here today asking us to make a commitment to increase the pensioners 1%. I told you, we don't want that 1%. We want it to be much more consistent with the state's capabilities. The opportunities of the state, the state won't forget the pensioners. I think we're all on the same page here, if I may say so, and we want pensioners to be bigger. That's the only way we can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44224	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44225	As far as we from the SRS are concerned, we want it to be better for the pensioners, for farmers to be better, for health, education workers, judges, workers working in the economy, in the private sector, so we want it to be better and better for every citizen of the Serbian state. You say you're wanted by those who aren't here today and these days are gone, you guarantee an increase in pensions of 1% a year. So we Serbian radicals, unlike these, if someone asks you for a certain percentage, he doesn't know, or he does it on purpose. We say that, just what we're asking of you, we're looking for criteria and deadlines. You are the government and you will determine the criteria based on it and based on it. Whether it will be 1%, 11%, I don't know how much percent, it will depend on these criteria that would also be adopted by the assembly majority and, of course, the deadline when it will happen. You have to tell what's true, you have to tell the pensioners, you said the other day, we'll never forget our pensioners. Let go of that hearty story. You should tell the pensioners that – we have now proposed, most in the Assembly will accept it, if there is money in the budget, we will be able to increase your pensions, if we do not, and that depends on us 20 in the government. That's what the SRS doesn't think. As for this information you gave about disability pensions, you said you filed 16 charges with the D.A.'s office. Seems to me there was room for more than that. If you mentioned 284, then 360, who didn't respond, you know what it means he didn't respond. You've got the paperwork, and it'd be good if it was in some phase to let the public know, you can't sue a man for getting a disability pension. You have to sue some Jasna Avramovic, mayor of Smederev, who gave false medical records to get a disability pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44226	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44227	You are right, but you must have some promise to someone and tell them how and how it works and how and how it can expect something from the state of Serbia. We are talking transparently about the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Every year I come here to parliament where we vote at the end of the year and vote, we make a proposal on the budget law and the budget system. You know what we're saying and if we're telling the truth. When it comes to voting, the Budget and Budgetary System Act, then you know how we predicted to share our success with our citizens next year. What we want to share with them and what we want to invest in the conditions of life in Serbia, that is, in infrastructure from these pairs. Then you have every right to say why you didn't give more? Why didn't you give less here, which is what you're doing. It's an opportunity when we can talk about it when we say the success of a state this big, of which we want to give the pensioners this much to pay, to make some benefits here, to give the infrastructure to these places, and then you say -- we think we should do it here or there, and then we can discuss it. Then you'll know the criteria for why we gave someone this much, to someone this much. I want them to be sweet to this government and this assembly, not to talk about some past times and where we're going to be in charge so that we don't increase but to return what we've made the mistake. It's been a while. I'm glad we're going to have a chance here in the Assembly very soon, to discuss how our success can be shared with our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44228	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44229	You're a very honest man, Mr. Gjorgevic. Here, for four days we have been struggling to explain to the citizens of Serbia what you have admitted, so we have to believe that you as a government will come up with some real data that will potentially increase pensions. We've been saying for days that it can't be so, that we don't have the right, no one has the right to trust you personally or the government or the president of the state, so this is a very exact thing. We're talking about pensioners, the possibility of raising pensions, the way and the deadlines when it will be. You're still telling us you're very transparent. Well, you sure as hell didn't come here with the draft budget bill. Here, for 18 years, you've been coming with the draft budget law, and only once so far, and not in your time, on the draft budget law. We can't trust any government to tell us, here's the vote, and based on that budget, we can do this or we can do that. It's only when you bring us a bill on budget implementation that we'll see. All right, in this department, it's been suggested so much, and it's spent so much, it's either left or gone. All right, you spent this much here, and it wasn't planned we didn't vote like this. So you keep trying to behave in this National Assembly and, in general, among the citizens of Serbia as if they were all members of the SNS and that, based on the party's book, they have to trust you. We didn't and we don't believe it. So, I can trust you as Zorana Djordjevic if I ask you for something, I don't know that you won't cheat on me anymore, but Zorana Djordjevic, Minister, don't give God, without a firm one in the law there's no belief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44230	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44231	Dear MPs, what it looked like when someone promises and puts it into law, and then what he promises doesn't live up to. We've seen how this government does when it promises something and it does, and then we show it in both the elections and the local and the republican, when we show our successes and it turns out to be exactly what we promised and did. If we had been wrong, if we had lied, surely we would not have had this success, we would surely have been punished as some others have been punished, because they lied to the people, but they cannot lie to them for life. At some point, it's over to the people, but that's why from the experiences we've had, they'll see how they're doing, we don't want to lie to them. This is exact data. It's our will to raise pensioners. It is our will that their pensions grow compared to the minimum consumer basket. That's what our goal is, and we're going to do it in order to go towards that goal, this change and the addition of the law is the way to it. It's a proposal for you to vote, and that's why I, as minister, stood before you and said that I suggest that you vote for it, and it will show up and we will suffer the consequences if it is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44232	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. Another comment can, although Djordjevic convinces you that he is right, you do not believe, I do not believe that something will be fixed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44233	Minister Djordjevic, you do not need to convince the SRS MPs that they have been bad for you since 2000. We know how bad they are, and it's us who exposed them. We're the ones who talked about criminal privatisation. We're the ones who talked about giving the archives to the UN tribunal, which is not done anywhere in the world. We're the ones who warned hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs with 50 years of life, so people are neither there nor here to find a job nor to retire. So, we know perfectly well that those who preceded you are disastrously bad and did not give God to ever come back. We'll do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. But you didn't give us an argument that we could trust you. You have inherited many of them, from the time they helped you steal the mandate of the SRS to make your party go the European way, the same way they go, to make EU concessions the same way they do, and you have not convinced us that you can do anything better than they do. After all, I repeat again, you can be the best in the world, you can, just that the government is the SRS, we would ask that the law regulate the way pensions are coordinated, based on which criteria and within what deadlines. You say, "You have the will." Oh, you have the will. You say you never cheated. Well, he cheated, first of all, on Alexander Vukitch when he promised four years ago not to let him cut pensions, so he cut them down. We mustn't forget some important things. So, nothing personal, simply, we have no right as an opposition, and we have no desire to trust the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44234	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miljan Dajmanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44235	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A draft law on pension-involved insurance. When it comes to this law, the government boasts as if it has done something revolutionary for our pensioners. The fact is that our pensioners are still living hard, so this increase won't give us any credit, and we've come to the point that our electricity bills, for utility services, have exceeded the amount of pensions that many of our citizens receive. If so, then why all this pomp and praise for the success of the government? We know that the minimum pension amount is 14,000 dinars and there is nothing that can be done with that money in Serbia. Not to talk about agricultural pensions, like I said on many occasions and through amendments, which are even lower than legally the lowest pensions. What should our peasant do, where and why to pay contributions for pension-inhabited insurance, when he knows he'll get a pension tomorrow that won't even be enough for utility services? I'm talking about those lucky people who'll be entitled to a farm pension, even if she's this small. But what about a large number of our farmers who aren't and who won't be able to claim a pension like this? What is the perspective of a man who goes into deep old age and doesn't have any income? From what will such get drugs, what will they pay for medical examinations, or, God forbid, more serious surgery? No one has thought about this category, and that is why all your boasting about taking care of all the citizens of Serbia is, unfortunately, falling into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44236	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Milorad Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44237	The Serbian Radical Party insists on the accuracy and accuracy of the legal provisions. Here, the promoter says that the right to an underprivileged internship has those who have spent two-thirds of the working life on these jobs being treated as specific or in difficult circumstances. But what is the Serbian Radical Party in the dilemma, is on the basis of which criteria are generally determined which are specific jobs and which jobs are subject to this category of disadvantaged employment? We have here a particular point where it is left to the Ministry or to the Minister and the Director of the BIA that they determine what jobs they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they have, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they Imagine what an absurdd it is – we will have a situation where, for example, the example works, in a police department where it is traditionally and by nature of business, it is understandable that officials have an unfettered job experience, and in the BIA we will have cases that function as well as an unfettered job internship. It's here by the nature of the job, by the conditions of work, and it's here by function. And then we're going to go into one collapsing, that simply this benefit-stricken work experience that applies to both age and total years of work experience, to be even for those who have difficult conditions and for those who work in perfectly normal conditions. It's an underprivileged internship in the period of 14, 16 and 18 months. We Serbian radicals, otherwise we insist on full precision. We think it would be perfectly normal for the lowest pension in Serbia to be based on basic living costs. For example, to take expenses for a 50-square-square living space, so that the pension can cover the consumer basket, so that the pensioner can pay for his medical services, so he can pay for his medications. It's not a category of people who go into investment, but at least to make sure these people don't hide from their grandchildren because they have nothing to buy them chocolate for. It's the biggest humiliation a pensioner experiences. That's what we Serbian radicals insist on. That's what it's supposed to be. This should be a criterion for determining minimum pensions. This does not occur by providing statistics that are, we are all witnesses, prone to manipulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44238	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44239	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The amendment proposes erasing this member and aimed at developing social justice. To be clear, you don't have to get all the rights acquired so far to downplay everyone. Article 3 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, the Proposer, wants to amend Article 20 of the basic law relating to persons working at jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration or so on. an unfettered work experience. The promoter would have to bear in mind that individual jobs are such that it is not an accident that the work experience on them counts. They have their weight and do not need employees in these jobs to destimulate and introduce new criteria to their harm. If a job is specific, these people who work in specific jobs should be respected and not punished in this way. The question arises if a government daily, through the media, boasts that it is successful, is run by a country that has significant development, which is why many of its citizens are trying to reduce their rights already acquired. This issue relates partly to the amendment that is concerned, but also to many other areas of life of citizens whose real lives are contrary to stories that officials in Serbia daily place through the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44240	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44241	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the nominal amount of retirement is not the only thing that concerns our pensioners. There are many other things that concern pensioners and members of their families. We know well that the pension population is a population that has multiple needs for all forms of health care than with other social layers. Unfortunately, today, there are various forms of serious diseases that were not present before, such as this Parkinson, Alzheimer's, etc., and these diseases affect our pensioners, and where this, God forbid, the householders, family members are tormented by what and how to do with their loved ones. And, in the end, it all comes down to the fact that the solution is sought in the gerontological centers, the special gerontological centers. However, we need to know is the accommodation, or stay in such centers today extremely expensive. I'm not talking about why it's expensive, it's probably so, it has to be, but the amount of that accommodation in many cases is triple, so somewhere and fourfold larger than the pension that that pensioner is receiving and the state has done nothing, or this government hasn't done anything, I haven't found anywhere in this law to see if there's any way to help people like these people, in order, first of all, to make it easier for their family members to treat their loved ones who are sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44242	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44243	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, each and every one, and this authority manipulates pensioners because it knows that pensioners are the most responsible part of society. Namely, pensioners are known to pay top dollar for all obligations to the state, such as taxes, municipal costs and other expenditures. On the other hand, every government in the pensioners sees the most reliable voting machine, because pensioners go to all elections most regularly. But the government only remembers when some election approaches. Pensions in Serbia are inaccessible in terms of living expenses and it is the right art to survive with pensions received by the largest number of our pensioners. This specifically refers to agricultural pensions, which are lower than all other categories of pensions. Our peasants represent the most active social layer and they have no vacations, no summers, no winters, no much else, which is made possible by other social layers, and worst of all, a large number of our peasants who are no longer capable of any work have no pensions even though they've worked their whole lives. This law has not dealt with this category of our citizens at all, even though they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44244	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44245	Thank you. Well, here, since the last hours, as the last hours of the bill expire, the Serbian Radical Party has been trying to explain all along and in fact in some way challenges the minister to give an answer to why the criteria for increasing pensions have not been clearly established from now on and we have not received any answer to that either. And since in 2014, Aleksandar Vucic made such a statement that pensions would not be touched and that everything needed to be done for the pensioner's account and for the citizens' account, would actually be done on the burden of the ministries, the government and would be stuck together to raise the country's economic growth in order to raise salaries and pensions. This has not actually happened, and for this reason there are no clear criteria why and how and when this pension could be increased from now on. What it is is reality, and what you didn't consider the whole time you were talking about pensions, is that at this point we have one to one, how many people who are in a working relationship, so many pensioners, which is unsustainable and which is impossible for one state to, of course, endure and the pension fund to be liquid. Then, we have another terrible thing to do that we have 500 thousand people who have lost their jobs from 2001 to 2012, so the pension fund has not even been charged. Well, then, since 2012 and 2014, we have some possibility and a constant effort by the Prime Minister, then the President of the Republic, to bring any, in any way, Kobajagi, investors, to make some salaries of 25 to 30 thousand, in order to make sure that pension fund is complemented in any way. But those salaries can't be complemented by a pension fund, because they're very low, and because when 65%, how much pension, how it's going to be, and those pensions are going to be 12, 13 to 15 grand. How do you think what you're saying today, yesterday, the day before by your MPs, you keep saying you'll get better results, bigger results. Based on what? Your economy doesn't work, your economy doesn't work. So, 40,000 high-quality people, written people who are supposed to throw away a certain profit and make profits in this country, they're leaving. On what basis will you make a new value, based on which you will fill out this pension fund? On the basis of your opinion that Alexander Vukic will continue to go around the world looking for people and bringing you a sleeve, wouldn't that pension fund fill you in? Well, if you were able to government, you'd fill it in different ways, you wouldn't let the support walls collapse if no one answered. You wouldn't be working on it, you wouldn't be watching calmly how billions of euros are spent, or in various calculations, but you'd be doing something normal for this country and for these citizens. So don't tell the people there's gonna be an increase in pensions. The pension increases will not be because the Serbian government is absolutely doing nothing but the president of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44246	Thank you. Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natas Spasoje Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44247	Mr. Minister, you should have accepted this amendment to the SRS. What I want to hear from you is when do you intend to do a whole new rulebook, or audit that you have to do at the end of this year, when it comes to unfettered jobs for miners? It's unfair for a mining business to classify miners if someone works in a coal mine, another in a copper mine, the third in a lignite mine. That's what you came up with from the Yellow Dossian Authority. You see how they behave, like it's a mining job for them, so they can't even come here. All robbed, destroyed Serbia, nothing at all. You've been watching it for six years. This is where you fight them. But what does that mean to a miner, especially that miner, Mr. Djordjevic, who is 48 years old and has over 40 years of training? According to this and this benefited internship, he can't retire because he doesn't have enough years to live. Now, you explain to me, Mr. Djordjevic, that someone is even less than a year old, started working at 18 years in a copper mine, in a coal mine, and working 20 years and having an unfettered job with this 18-month increase, where this man, after 20 years of working in the mine, is going to get a job? Well, wasn't it logical, and ultimately humane, when it was already such a situation, economic growth in the budget, so I guess we don't have so many miners, when you can be all over the agencies, those who don't do absolutely anything, pay with the salaries of 200, 300 thousand dinars and directors of the Agency for the Control of the Flight million and a half and some directors of public enterprises per million, so didn't you make sense to accept the amendment of the SRS and do what it takes and to be the year after the Beneficent Train for the miner, who, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some of you have now worked in the mine for over 20 or 30 years, and can't retire again?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44248	On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marjana Marash. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Marash's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44249	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Honored People's Committees, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which reads: “Article 20 paragraph 3 changes and reads - Exceptionally from Article 2 of this Article, the age limit for insurance undertakings that have two thirds of effective work on the jobs referred to in point 4 of Article 1 of this Article compared to the total work experience effectively carried out at jobs where the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration, can be reduced to a maximum of 50 years of life. “ The objective of the amendment was just to make the legislative provision more precise formulas to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on PIO I would like to point out that these complements in a fairer way are calculated at the level of early retirement pensions for insurance companies whose internship counts with an increased duration, so to speak. the benefited working time, as their reduced age limit is taken into account, and not the general age limit as before, so that the foames for these insurance companies are counted against their reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with the benefited working time. And what I want to point out and repeat, which we have repeatedly repeated, in the course of the debate, both in principle and in particular, i.e. that, due to the positive economic developments and the financial situation in the budget, by abolishing the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, pensioners will receive an increase of 8.4 to 13.3%, and what I think is extremely important is that the biggest increase in pensions will be given to pensioners with the lowest incomes of 25,000 and lower, and they are also at the most about 56%. What I would also like to point out, that besides pensioners, the burden of this fiscal consolidation has also been borne by public sector employees and I am pleased that there could be an increase and wages in the public sector since 1 January 2019. Ministers, it is important simply because we at the bar are facing a number of educated professionals and people with experience leaving, specifically from local self-government, because of low incomes and should think, if we could hear in the budget there are funds, there is room for us to have a salary increase in the public sector next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44250	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Dragan Vesović, Marija Janjusevic, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Vesovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, for the amendment of technical nature with the desire for a member to appear more logically, we have thrown out a single word. However, less importantly, perhaps no one has even read it, what is more important is that because of our work in this way we will not have time to talk about the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Professionals of Special Interest for the Republic of Serbia and I am really using the opportunity to make an appeal and authorities, and on my part I will try to do it in opposition, to put away a bad practice in order to perhaps make some laws, which, even with amendments by the opposition, we can fix and make better, make them better. Minister Djordjevic, you were trying to explain yourself to us a little while ago and you explained yourself a lot, I am grateful for that. However, I remain one thing not responsible all these days, and it is indeed interested in the families of the deceased pensioners within the time when this law has been in force and all those pensioners who are now in a difficult state of health, will they at all intend to and will the government, in any way, in accordance with the preservation of the financial system of the country that has indeed been violated, some steps, that what has been taken from the pensioners for four years? We talked about money, we talked about how much that pension was reduced to five thousand, times 48 months, to those who had 10,000, unfortunately, about 150 grand...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44252	You're bringing an end to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44253	I will, thank you, Mr. Chairman, one more sentence, about 150,000 of our fellow citizens are no longer among us and their relatives have asked me to ask this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44254	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Saša Radulović, Branislav Mihajlović, Ana Stevanović, Branka Stamenković, Ratko Jankov, Dusan Pavlovic and Jasmina Nikolic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Bakery, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44255	Thank you, Chairman. I have already said that the turning point in the way in which Serbia's economic policy is conducted is the government's decision of 2014 and the president, the then Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. It was an unpopular measure, but a state-sponsored measure, and then the wheel of economics began to turn in a positive direction. Further moves have created conditions to create real income and start filling budgets, i.e. to start filling budgets and filling funds. We already have a third year surplus in the budget, and from these real incomes, we've managed to get to the point where we can start slowly raising pensions as the state grows stronger and not just pensions, but also public sector wages. One more thing is that this government has made a decision, and at the moment when certain opposition leaders are spontaneously gathering and wearing those transparent "Mothers are the law" we say – we agree, mothers are the law, but we also say – family is sacred. It is from that surplus, from that budget and from that higher funding that the government has made a decision to help families by detaching part of the funds for each newborn child. For the first child to be born after the first of July 2018, this government will separate 100,000 dinars from one-off aid. For a second child for two years, or 24 months for 10,000 dinars. For a third child for 10 years at 12,000 dinars, and for a fourth child 10 years at 18,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44256	Thank you. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Veljkovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44257	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the system of state pensions is based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity, where active insurance companies make a contribution from earning pensions. Experts argue that for the optimal functioning of the pension system, the number of pensioners and employees should be at least one to three. The relationship between employees and pensioners has long been disrupted. It was ideal in the middle of the last century when the relationship was one to five, but in the early 1970s it fell to one to three, to be one to two and a half in the early 1990s. An additional problem that negatively reflects the pension system brings information expansion and technological progress, as well as increasing automation of production processes. The pension system had a particularly serious disturbance during the rule of the previous regime, when hundreds of thousands of workers were out of work, so the share of pensions in GDP was huge 13.8 and the retirement budget was more than 48%. In such a negative finding of opportunities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, has made an unpopular and difficult but necessary and courageous decision on the temporary reduction of pensions, a decision that was not a product of boast and arrogance, but the need for public interest and the need to preserve the stability of the economic system. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vucic were absolutely aware that in order to improve the state of the pension system it is necessary to create real sources of funding, which is primarily the creation of new jobs, which the current government, headed by the president, is successfully working to open dozens of new factories and employ hundreds of thousands in continuity. In this regard, it best illustrates the fact that at the end of 2011, around a million and 700 thousand persons were employed, and in the second quarter of 2018, two million and 120 thousand employees were employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44258	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44259	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, but I would like to comment on something, since there have been more comments here at the expense of President Alexander Vukic on some failed promises. I would remind all of us here MPs that the presidential campaign of Aleksandar Vukic and 2016, 2017 and 2014 was not based on promises, but on an application for citizens to understand that they would have to make difficult painful moves to stop the country's bankruptcy and to ensure a better future. I'll quote his statement, he says: "We had to make difficult decisions. To rule in the country does not mean to fulfill someone's wishes. We couldn't agree with you, we had to make some tough moves to get into a situation today to open factories." There's a factory opening in Nis today. What else did he say? "You were the ones who trusted the state, trusted the leadership, put the interests of the state ahead of the individuals." The people knew that they appreciated it in the election. Despite this law adopted in 2014 on the reduction of pensions and some laws on the reduction of wages and taxation towards income, Vukic received elections in 2016 and 2017 in the upper half of the majority, because the people who were hard to appreciate work and effort and had confidence in what was done and what was shown by the minority every week by opening new jobs and, to remind them, he justified his efforts. One more thing I have to say, Mr. President, don't think about resigning from the president of the SNS. You have to stay there for a while to stabilize finance and economic situation in this beautiful country of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44260	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miloevich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44261	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is amended in Article 20, I propose adding a new position 2 which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a special reference to the improvement of the private sector." It is the private sector that tends to pursue innovation and improve efficiency. A number of reforms are being introduced in order to improve the work of the state administration and facilitate our citizens' rights. Thus, these amendments to the laws that are before us propose measures to improve the PIO Fund's work system which will lead to a reduction in bureaucratic formalities. The measures of the state-level and administration systems are very important and take an important place in the long-term work plan of this government. In order to present a way of working locally, I will mention the example of the Municipality of Arangelovac, who, under the authority of the SNS, reduced the number of directors of public institutions and enterprises, implemented a systematization in most of them and introduced, hopefully, a better organisational scheme. Only through coordination between the public and private sectors, through mutual co-operation and training of labour principles can we advance as a society. Examples of this local co-operation are numerous and they have brought excellent projects. The municipality of Arangelovac, in co-operation with businessmen and with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia, will soon receive the most modern polyclinic centre in Serbia. We invest in sports courts, schools and kindergartens and thus combine the general public interest in order to improve the lives of citizens. A conscious demographic picture of the inhabitants of our country who, by far, will change thanks to the government's measures, we are preparing to train young people to continue the affairs of their predecessors. On the other hand, by adopting the provisions of this law, we achieve that pensioners and those who will become pensioners have a much better and safer future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44262	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bulatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44263	I thank the chairman. On the draft law, I am submitting an amendment to Article 3 and I propose to add a new position, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with special reference to the rule of law." Thanks to the responsible policy of our President Alexander Vukic and the Government, Serbia is developing evenly today. Today, the government is investing a fifth of its budget in health care. In Vranj, as the headquarters of the Pcinj district, numerous serious projects have been implemented with the help of the state, and it is also invested in health care. The country's relationship to Vranje and the South may best say that Vranj will soon open a new surgical block whose construction began 12 years ago and which will be a regional character for providing secondary healthcare for some 250,000 Pcinj County residents and Kosovo's seas. Seven modern equipment contracts have recently been signed at the Ministry of Health, worth about 50 million dinars to equip the future surgical bloc in Vranj. All of this is evidence that Serbia today is led by Alexander Vukic to be able to take care of all its citizens, which, as you know, was not the case until recently. The citizens recognized it and therefore the support of the SNS and our president is growing from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44264	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44265	I would like to thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 3. I wanted to point out that these changes ahead of us will improve the work of local self-government institutions. The amendments to the part of the parent records shall be subject to compliance with the Law on the central register of compulsory social security. Among other things, the M4 pattern is abolished. It is a form that brings annual earnings to all employees in the state of Serbia, local self-government and those who have a job for permanent and temporary jobs. Also those who deal with their own business and farmers. I'm just counting it to keep in mind how big a job it is and how it's worked so far, that's how it's working now. Employers, i.e. employers' accountants, were filling out data for the M4 form, individually for each employee and then sending these data to the PIO Fund, where these data were reunited individually for each worker. With these changes on our agenda today, a double deal will be thrown out, there will be no such thing as before, documents will be exchanged electronically between local institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44266	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44267	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, has been the result of a bright economic policy led by then prime minister and today President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since 2014. But aside from responsible economic policy, this government and the President of the Republic of Water and responsible social policy when it comes to the protection of pensioners and the protection of our oldest citizens. In addition, the opening of retirement clubs is also going on, and I must point out that eight new retirement clubs have been opened since 2014 at the time of the SNS government in Belgrade. As an example, I will list the Club for Pensioners in Batajnica and the Club for Pensioners in the Municipality of Savski Venac, in which the equipment and adaptation of the municipalities of Savski Venac invested 2.4 million dinars, but thanks to the dedicated transfers of social protection coming from the Republic budget, social protection services and support and pensioners and our oldest citizens are also taking place in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I must point out that in Priboj, the municipality from which I come, there is a living room for old and pensioners, which is just being financed from the dedicated transfers of the republican budget, but also from the budget of local self-government. I must point out that there is also an emergency care service for old pensioners, the only one in the Zlatibor County.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44268	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lakatoš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44269	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues, thanks to the positive changes in Serbia in all segments of society, thanks to the stabilisation of economic opportunities, real opportunities have been created for the payment of an increased amount of pensions. By bringing foreign investors and opening new jobs, by reducing unemployment, our country has become financially stable. Such a responsible government policy today we have a surplus in the budget, GDP growth, and hence the possibility of increasing profits and pensions. Due to the catastrophic financial situation, which threatened Serbia to face bankruptcy, heavy restrictive measures were implemented in 2014. The law that entered into force at that time on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid, ceases to be valid on 30 September 2018. The reduction in unemployment, which was 26% in 2014, and now 11.9%, leads to the stabilisation of the PIO fund, as the ratio of insurance and pensioners is consistent. We are in a position to support in the voting day the PIO Bill, which brings positive changes to the benefit of pensioners and thus provide better economic status for 1,700,000 pensioners and enable payment of October pensions without reduction. With the financial stability and responsible policy run by the Serbian government, the rapid development and progress of our country has been guaranteed, a better position for all pensioners, for all citizens, but also very important for our education system as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44270	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44271	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who have asked questions about what guarantees they will continue with the trend of increasing, i.e. strengthening income for our pensioners, the answers are of course in life practice. What is proof that there is a political will for it? So far, life practice, the fact that and during the reform period we have already applied pension increases on three occasions. What is proof that there is a potential to continue with this good practice? Current developments in our economy right now. For example, the fact that in 2017 the profit of our entire economy was 3.6 billion compared to 1.9 from the previous year, this is a clear indication that Serbia is not going badly. The fact that 15% more investment this year for the Republic of Serbia than also last year's record year is also a good and clear indicator that our country is not going badly. What is a clear indication that there is an intention to continue with such a practice? Constant investment in everything that represents the development that is subject to the amendment to Article 3, so on a constant investment in our economy, a constant investment in all those capacities that will allow our budget to be only fuller over time, so that it is in surplus as it is now three years in a row. After all, the strongest guarantee that these things are taken seriously, the strongest guarantee that these results are not a transient phenomenon, is the fact that the whole country has strong support for politics, a successful and winning policy, Alexander Vukic. While this support is there will be many good reasons for us to live in the belief that these successes will only be greater in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44272	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44273	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, preparing for the interpretation of Amendment 3, I have based on certain issues that are not sufficiently defined in the previous law, and as such have been singled out and the need to supplement certain members, i.e. by further defining individual members. Among other issues is the question of how to calculate early retirement in insurance companies whose insurance job counts with increased duration. The amendments and additions to the Law in Article 3, further defines the protection of the right to reduce the age limit of up to 50 years for insurance workers working or working on jobs with a maximum degree of increase in the insurance rate, i.e. it is prescribed for these insurance undertakings to be subject to the said right to have completed two-thirds effectively on operations with a maximum degree of increase in the insurance rate of 12 to 18 months, compared to the overall effective effect of the jobs at which the insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration. The most common interests in which the insurance internship counts with increased duration are in the military and police, as well as activities such as mines, black, colored metallurgy, oil production and processing, chemical, pharmaceutical, etc. So, I would repeat that the law states once again that the increased duration of training, which implies that effective 12 months are accounted for in the insurance internship as 18 determines insurance workers, i.e. jobs in which work is particularly difficult, dangerous and harmful to health and despite the application of all safeguards, and also where the performance of professional activity is limited by the completion of certain years of life or where, due to the nature and severity of work, physiological functions fall down to disabling its further successful performance. I will stress that a new era of interest must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44274	Thank you, Mr. Krinokapic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic.. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44275	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, respected pensioners, this amendment further defines Article 3 of this Act. All the reasons why the Retirement Act was passed have disappeared. The first reason was to reduce pensions in GDP from 13.8% to 11%, as much as the standard on which MFF insists. The second reason is to cut the part of pensions paid from the budget from 45% to about 30%. The third reason is a balanced macroeconomic position, which gave rise to conditions for people to receive as much pension as it says on pension checks. The adoption of this bill will end the pension reduction concluded with the payment of September pensions for 2018. The good news is that for all pensioners and public sector employees, this pension law reduced to 11% of GDP, public sector salaries were reduced to 8% of GDP. Not only will pensions return to the previous situation in October 2014, but an increase of around 7.75% will be found in November 2018. Pensioners whose pensions have not been reduced at the time of the financial consolidation, because they were below 25,000 dinars, and there are more than a million pensioners, can expect an increase whose percentage has not yet been calculated, but will certainly be increased. Thanks to the responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, intensive development in the area of health and the fact that the list of waitings for health services has been reduced...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44276	I thank my colleague Pavlovic. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44277	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia since 2001, five phases of reform have been implemented in the pension and disability insurance system, whose measures were restrictive, but have not followed the reform of the entire system, resulting in the long-term financial unsustainability of the system and the growing crisis until 2014, when the government headed by then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic joined serious reforms of the pension and disability insurance system. The change in demographic structure and the irresponsible policy that has been conducted for many years has contributed to creating a poor economic situation and increasing unemployment, resulting in the development of a deficit in the pension system and other rights arising from this type of insurance. The relationship between the number of insurance companies and pensioners in recent years has been drastically reduced. In 1990, this amount was 2.7 insurance on one pensioner, in 2001, 1.8, and in 2014, 1.4. Since 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a number of measures aimed at increasing employment and reducing the grey economy in our country, which has been positively reflected in the PIO insurance system, as the decline in the number of insurance and pensioners in June of the current year was 1.5. In four years of responsible work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, unpopular fiscal consolidation measures have led to positive results in terms of halting and reducing pension funding deficits, which has been significantly affected, above all, by reducing unemployment, by improving the collection of contributions, as well as GDP growth, which has allowed us to have stable finances and pensions from real sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44278	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Anybody want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group will support this bill because it brings the pension and stability of the PIO Fund into direct contact with strengthening Serbia's economy and we think it is the only real and only correct approach. We have had a stable currency for six years in a row as a state, or we have a stable dinar. For the third year in a row, we have a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. On January 1, 2019, and I think it is important that the citizens of Serbia know this, the public debt will be less than 47%. So, never smaller in Serbia's recent economic history. What is also important for Serbian citizens to know today, in 2018, 55% of all direct investment apartments at the level of the countries of the region end up right in the Republic of Serbia. This means that Serbia today is a well-organised state, a stable state, both in legal and political terms, and it can be a good guarantee and pensioners that in the future it will have orderly pensions and pensions that will increase on a real basis. This is also evidence of today's event in Nis, i.e. the opening of a “Cuntobel” lighting plant. It is an investment worth 30.6m euros and a new 1,100 jobs will be opened in Nis, thanks to this investment, which you assume will mean a lot for all our southern districts, and, of course, especially the city of Nis. Therefore, only such an economic policy can guarantee pension stability and their growth on real economic grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44280	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Anybody want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44281	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, after successfully implemented fiscal consolidation and stabilisation of public finances, we have also resorted to the adoption of this important law and we show that Serbia is on the right track and that in the past few years we have indeed managed to fix the situation in the country. We should not be surprised by the aggression of opposition MPs, especially from the ranks of the yellow company, because they, in the absence of arguments and in the lack of their programme, are clearly resorting to preventing us from talking about everything that our government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Alexander Vukic. Their anxiety is obvious, and apparently they now show that they have nothing to say and that they have nothing to look for in parliament, so they are not. What we want to do is continue to take care of citizens, all categories of society, which we do by passing this very important law, thinking about our oldest, but also our youngest. As I said today, but I will repeat now that the President of the Republic a few days ago is opening a clinic in Tirshova, i.e. the reconstruction of Tirshova, announced that "The People's Front" is moving away, because we want better conditions for mothers, maternity and pregnant women, as better conditions for our children, but I would also announce what the president has announced, and this is an increase in salaries for our doctors and nurses, because we want to keep them in this country, not to drive them away, as did those from the yellow company. So we move on to new victories, of course, headed by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44282	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44283	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, in Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which amends Article 20. The Law on PIO adds a new position 2 which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a specific focus on budgetary stabilisation." We gained conditions to increase pensions, because in the previous period it worked hard. The factories were opening up, reducing the number of unemployed, and what's good news for all of us today is the opening of another factory, tomorrow another new one. We hope to see more factories in the next few days, because this is the way to earn first, and then to increase profits in all areas, because there is a tendency of different, that we need to increase the public sector now, and we need to take a good look at the situation in this country, to see how much a forest farmer, who traditionally attracts, needs to do to make money, what he needs to sell, and to produce to get paid by a clerk. When I recalculated it to community officials, they never asked me for a raise again. It's very hard to work where money is created and it has to be done more and more in the public sector, absolutely. Then we can only think about the increase, and first we have to make money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44284	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44285	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which amends Article 20. The Law on PIO by adding a new position on 2nd, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with particular reference to strengthening and improving the justice system. “ Article 3. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO is amended and complemented by Article 20(3) of the applicable law. This article prescribes how the age limit for obtaining age pension rights, Article 19 of Article 1 of this Law, is reduced depending on the degree of increase by one year. This applies to insurance companies who are at jobs where the insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration, which completed two-thirds of the total insurance hold. These changes and additions shall provide protection of the essence of the right to reduce the age limit up to 50 years for insurance workers working or working on jobs with a maximum increase in insurance training and prevention of possible abuses. It is now prescribed that for all insurance undertakings, the condition for the exercise of that right is that they have completed two-thirds effectively on jobs with a maximum degree of increase in the insurance rate compared to the total time spent at jobs where the insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration. By changing the method of calculating the amount of temporary pension for insurance undertakings whose insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration going into early retirement with a reduction in pension height, so that the foames for these insurance companies are counted against the reduced age limit for each specific insurance company with the benefited track. This way, the higher the level of early retirement for all insurance companies... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44286	Thanks, buddy. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will once again show my satisfaction that I have the opportunity to increase the incomes of our most worthy citizens by my own personal contribution. And who is more responsible than those who have carried out the entire work life on their shoulders, no matter what jobs they have done? I am honored to belong to a parliamentary group that participates in this debate today, showing how valuable it is and how much it appreciates the work of our oldest citizens. It's easy to be against everything and everything, even good results, unless you have any responsibility to those who sent you here. It is clear that part of the opposition MPs no longer have a voting body behind them, and all the quasi-associations and alliances, with carriages and ropes, have only one goal, which is to somehow survive until the election, so that they can just skip the censorship, and then ride on the state's manger without any responsibility for another year, and of course, if there's a match and some sponsors, there's joy. The amendment that draws attention to culture aims to point to lasting values for the nation and the state. Without culture and education, the path to the bottom is guaranteed, and from the fungi that the predecessors got us into, we barely got away with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44288	Thank you. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44289	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO and amendment is further defined by a member of the law. The protection of the essence of the right to reduce the age limit of up to 50 years of life for insurance workers working or working on jobs with a maximum degree of increase in insurance and prevention of possible abuses is prescribed that for all insurance undertakings, the conditions for achieving the said right to have completed two-thirds effectively on jobs with a maximum degree of increase in insurance training, relative to the total effective time spent at jobs where the insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration. Applying the method of calculating early retirement pensions for insurance companies whose insurance training is calculated with an increased duration going into early retirement with a reduction in pension levels, so that the pens for these insurance companies are counted against the reduced age limit. This makes it fairer to calculate the amount of early retirement for all insurance companies because they consider the reduced age limit, not the general age limit as before. An increase in pensions is evidence that Serbia now has a stable economic situation and reforms proposed by Aleksandar Vukic have proved justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44290	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44291	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, we have before us amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act that will be able to address all shortcomings and injustices against people who have been brought to them during the previous period and the adoption of the law since 1 January 2015. For each insurance undertaking, no profit data for all insurance undertakings and instead of average republican earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, shall be determined by the average annual personal coefficient to be determined according to the profits that exist in the parent records of the Republic of PIO Fund, in particular for each insurance undertaking. This will especially correct the injustices and solutions of those users from the Kosovo and Metohija area, whose insurance internship, due to the known situation that hit the area, accounts and acknowledges according to the workbook by 9 June 1999, and by that time many had no established profit data. It will allow previous users to address the Fund with a request to change the solution, which was one of the remarks that often puts the PIO employees in Kosovo Mitrovica on the burden, because we are not able to meet everyone within a specific and concrete 60-day period. Users will address the Fund by requesting to amend the solution, in accordance with this provision, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law, but may also after that deadline, with the legal fact that those solutions will be in future. As for the subsidiary of the Kosovo Mitrovica and the PIO Fund, there are opportunities for all of their users, there are about 7,000 of them, we enter every day and provide data to everyone they need, allowing them to get to their solutions as soon as possible and to use their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44292	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44293	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have asked today some of the opposition to what we are proud of. Here, we are proud, as our head of the legislator group Aleksandar Martinovic said, and of the 'Cumtobel', of the 100 factories we opened in the previous six years, to 180,000 new jobs. We are also proud that unemployment in Serbia is no longer 26%, but for the first time since 25 years unemployment has fallen below 12%, we are going below 10%. We are proud to raise our pensions to our oldest citizens on a real basis, without that green debt at 7, 8 and 9% interest rates, as it was from 2000 to 2012. We are proud to raise our pensions and salaries, not at the time of the election to buy voters' votes, but because we can give our citizens a better life, a better living standard and better living conditions. We are proud of the pleasure of our citizens. It means the pleasure of the citizens, not the pleasure of the tycoon. That is why Serbia is moving forward, which is why Serbia's citizens are moving forward and will live better and better, year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44294	National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44295	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, there is no doubt that this Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and my proposed amendment will contribute to the overall modernisation of our country, led by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the overall development of education and education, and thus the moral and patriotic feeling and education. If Srdja Popovic, a lawyer and a member of the former regime's party, or the Democratic Party, had a patriotic feeling, would not have signed a document together with Margaret Thatcher, George Soros, Zbignje Bžinski and other assholes in 1993 asking for the bombing of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party member described Serbia, I quote, as "anus mundi", which in translation, respected citizens, means an asshole of the world, "and a bloody bandit's den", and for him, Serbs are what is in the anus, completed a quote, taken from an American magazine on September 2nd 1993. Also, a lack of patriotic and moral education was shown by Mr. Milojko Pantic, a crazy woman, because a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia have called, quote, as "a clerofastic and nationalist Serbia", and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and his associates as "a paranoid nationalist plethom pyroman", finished the quote. Mr. Vice President, that is why this amendment is very important, so that in the future, the characters of the Democratic Party and the LDP, such as these two, do not appear on the political scene, with a lack of patriotic and moral education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44296	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44297	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, the primary goal of reforming the pension and disability insurance system is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, which will ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners. Now, that's called a socially responsible policy. An increase in pensions has a check of three positive effects. First, it is very important on the moral side to release the burdens of the oldest citizens who have carried the greatest burden of the crisis on their backs. Then came the time to be rewarded for this much patience. The second effect is that Serbia is also relieved of the burden of having the 2014 Interim Pension Reduction Act, which was introduced because there was a threat that the state would have no place to pay for pensions, and we know why. The third effect, of course, is that bigger pensions will also boost domestic demand. Pensioners can expect one-time assistance before the end of this year, similar to the one they received last year. If we keep this up, and we'll continue even better, next year's pensioners can expect an increase in pensions. So, who in 2014 had 23,000 dinars, will receive 26.059 dinars, those with 26,000 will receive 29.132 dinars. The lowest percentage of the increase will be those who have over 100,000 dinar pensions. It is very important to say that pensioners who receive below 25,000 dinars will increase by 5% compared to now, but even 13.3% compared to 2014, and we know that inflation was only 1.5% to 2%. The reduction of pensions and profits in the public sector has affected the halting of the headlong growth of public debt by the end of 2014. When data are looked at, it is clear that the reduction in pensions and wages in the public sector has yielded its extraordinary results. Since then, public finances have been in much better shape. The deficit fell from 258 billion dinars in 2014 to 149 billion in 2015 to go to a surplus of 52.3 billion dinars in 2017. By turning into a surplus of budgets, the state has received a maneuvering space to finance projects of national importance, such as education, health care, road construction and many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44298	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44299	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, what enabled the constant increase of the standards of pensioners and citizens in general? The fact that the macroeconomic situation is favourable, fiscal and monetary policy is stable and unemployment has been stable for the last 10 years, thanks to our President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, new factories are being opened, health centres, hospitals, schools are being built. It's all about rebuilding the country. It's like inheriting a house of mud and building on its foundations a building of solid material, stable, safe. In addition, while you work hard and your predecessors throw bricks at you, you build, they break down. As state finances are now consolidated, opportunities have been created for a new law to establish a legal basis that will give the government the opportunity to pay the money in terms of economic movement and the financial opportunities of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Serbia has the largest growth in the region and we are rightly proud of it, to the detriment of those who only knew that they were robbing and successful do not forgive. Our oldest citizens contributed to successful reforms and now we have stable public finances. Another detail for the general public, which is that the IMF has just used an example of Serbia, as a successful model of consolidation of public finances and major progress in the short term. As an example for other countries, Serbia is going a good path and remains consistent with economic reforms, increasing the rate of GDP growth and improving citizens' living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44300	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vlado Babic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44301	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, ten years ago, and even earlier, there was an increased and increased trend of going into disability pensions, because the experts on the commissions were favored by the insurance companies who applied for retirement leave. The demands were made by people who had barely had 20 years of employment. In the Western-Baba County, the most submitted requirements for a disability commission were treated with psychiatric patients with PSP syndrome, most during the year 2000, then psychosis, depression. As far as cardiovascular disease is concerned, the most common diagnosis was heart disease, or heart attack, stroke of the brain, with resulting... or quadriparesis, increased blood pressure. Neurological diseases are usually left due to disc prolapse, multiple sclerosis, muscle dystrophy, lumboishialgia. Of the cancers, it was mostly utheus, lung, brain, or throat cancer. This all led to an increase in pensioners and the disability commission had to assess the working situation of the insurance company more strictly, so that the difference between workers and pensioners would not be even greater. The latest data is that it was 1:1.15. In the past ten years, the place of first-degree artists who were county residents has been abolished and since then come to the art of Sombor witches from Novi Sad. Which expert will come depends on the medical documentation of the insurance user. An intern, a pulmologist, a neurologist, a psychiatrist or a specialist in physical medicine can come, since the province's PIO Fund doesn't have any specialists of all profiles. A review of the solutions implemented in Belgrade is being introduced. If that was somehow necessary before, I'm sure she doesn't have cover now. That's why it should go back and be a review of the second-degree commission in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44302	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44303	Thank you. Dear Ministers, People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, well, certainly this bill on PIO, which we are discussing today, provides the most favourable conditions for the exercise of the right of employees with a well-fused job experience. In the last few decades, we haven't had an example that someone who works in the mine could retire at 50 years of age and 45 years of employment. To date, the law was that at the age of 53, you could retire. However, I have to go back to 2012, when for those same miners who worked 500 metres underground, the yellow company had no understanding and when they were sent 500 metres underground without the contributions paid to PIO and without the contributions paid for health insurance. Today, not only have we given them much better conditions to gain pension rights, but our President Aleksandar Vukic, in August of this month with his policy, managed to bring a strategic partner to RTB Bor, company Zi Jin, which, as a strategic partner, singled out a billion and 260 million dollars to invest in this RTB company. However, it has also set aside $200m of additional dollars to regulate the long-term commitments that RTB Bor has under UPPR. Thus, in this way, not only did we provide better conditions for obtaining a pension, we made it possible for better working conditions, and in this way, when they achieve 45 years of work experience together with the benefits of work experience they do not have to, because they will certainly be more rested and able to continue their work experience and to retire later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44304	Thank you. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44305	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, stronger economies, new factories, new jobs, which is a feature of our President Alexander Vukic and our Government's work, has a positive impact on greater investment and on health. With a view to the smooth development of the Republic of Serbia, there is also a concern of traffic that connects all our regions. On this occasion, I would like to thank our Government and the Resort Ministry for successfully completed reconstruction of the railway and railway stations on the line Shabac-Loznica-Brasin and allowing the transport of passengers after a 13-year break. It is also the only way out of Republika Srpska in rail traffic that connects them with other countries of the region. Also, the announcement of the construction of a fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica over the next two years will affect the faster economic development of our region, attracting new investments. This will also create conditions for the announced renovation of several branches of the local hospital, starting with the internal, breast, psych ward, which will give our fellow citizens better treatment conditions. Amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act suggest a fairer calculation of the amount of early retirement pension for insurance workers increasing the insurance rate, so-called A certified internship which, in accordance with the provisions of the law, has the right to lower the general age limit when going into retirement. Namely, the percentage of the reduction in early retirement for these insurance companies will be determined against their reduced age line, not compared to the general age limit, as has been provided for so far by law. Ensuring greater legal certainty for pensioners. In order to reduce the number of temporary resolutions of the Republic Pension-Inhabitation Fund, changes are proposed in the way of the last year's security internships. According to current practice, it was possible to account for the last year of the insurance internship only after the end of the year when the Republic Statistics Institute publishes the average annual earnings in the Republic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44306	Thank you, colleague. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Fellow Members, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44307	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, submit an amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act points out that the Republic of Serbia has created an ambience for new investments and new investments. Today when we talk about the draft law on the agenda, as a result of four years ago not so popular, but also everything they have done for this country in order to ensure a safe and realistic pension payment, on sound grounds, which will provide citizens with a good future, we will remind ourselves that the policy that was current until 2012 has brought budget, state, citizens on the verge of collapse. The factors that contributed to such a situation in the budget did not show responsibility to the state, to themselves, and above all to the citizens. The same ones who have made the deficit that the responsible have struggled with for several years to bring back the proper situation, have criticised the situation in the same way as they are today criticising the surplus in the budget. For a good future, it is important for citizens to have a stable budget and we are on a great path. That's what the results say, recognizable on the world's lists. The pace that Serbia is going to and opportunities that are opening, for example, with Chinese investment, which will be in our country thanks to the ratings and respect our country has due to the government's efforts and President Aleksandr Vukic, can also enable the achievement of first place as the country with the highest economic growth in Europe in two or three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44308	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44309	Thank you, Chairman. In the period until 2012, when companies were ruthlessly failing, our country also collapsed. We ran out of funds, and the budget was found in a catastrophic state. Pensions somehow had to pay off the people who earned them fairly, but there was no where to come from. The people were out of work. Thousands of people were out of work, and there was less and less funds in the budget, as pension-inhabitation taxes were not paid. How do you replace people? It is that the age limit has shifted at one point, but many people tell me that they can't even imagine and that they don't know exactly what they'd be doing at home, they're just used to working, while others can't wait to retire, some of them are tired, but life goes on some other time. I sincerely hope to see my pension in a carefree manner in about 30 years, but since we've established a safe foundation, I have no doubt that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44310	Thank you, colleague Janošević. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Bojan Bagica, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Krsto Janjušević, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44311	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, by adopting this bill all pensions relative to the 2014 level, and before the Law on Temporary Reduction, will be greater than 8.4 to 13.3%, with a tendency to continue to grow. What's security for further growth? We will find a part of the reason, and I will talk about these reasons, towards Corridor 11, on the accelerated works of the Belgrade-Cacchak highway, and the start of work on the Preljina-Požega section is expected in spring. The 30.9km extension on Corridor 11 means a great deal to that part of Western Serbia, the Zlatibor County. The reasons will be found in Corridor 11 and in the industrial zone in Cačka, where Forverk started its big investment with thousands of new jobs, and then in Požega the biggest investment in the dedicated industry, and then the necessity of expanding the free zone in Užica, the development of tourism in the Zlatibor County, the expansion of the industrial zone in Priboj. The security reasons for increasing pensions are also in the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway, in the part of the Resnik-Valjevo route, 77.6km. So, we from western Serbia in that period under some yellow authority could rather wait for the volcano to work somewhere than for some company to work or for an asphalt base to work for a mile of highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44312	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Branko Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44313	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by supplementing this article with the position I have proposed, the proposal for this law is further defined. One of the strategic goals in the field of health is the restoration of the University Children's Clinic in Tirshovo, as well as the construction of a new Tirshova 2 hospital. The government of the Republic of Serbia has invested 7.5m euros for the reconstruction of the institution, and an additional million euros has been provided for the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment and appliances. A feasibility study on the construction of a new children's hospital will be conducted in the next period, and the state has provided 54m euros for the implementation of this strategic project. At the same time, more than threem euros for the treatment of children and adults abroad were allocated from Serbia's budget in the first half of this year alone, as well as 17m euros for the treatment of rare diseases. The state has established a budget fund for the treatment of diseases, conditions or injuries that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia as early as 2014 and to date more than two thousand children have been treated abroad and around 23m euros have been paid for this purpose. Continuing investment in all health institutions in the form of the construction of new homes of health and hospitals, reconstruction and adaptation of existing facilities, the procurement of the most modern medical equipment and apparatus, the employment of young healthcare professionals and the investment in their professional training, are a confirmation of the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to contribute to the overall development of the state and thus to the better living standards of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44314	Thank you, colleague Popovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Here's a colleague of richinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44315	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, and this time I want to express my gratitude to all pensioners who have had the understanding of their country when the most difficult and austerity measures have made it possible for our country to have a better future. Serbia's future and the area I come from is certainly agriculture. On agriculture, one of the main branches of the economy, the woodland is heavily reliant, aware of the need for agricultural producers to remain on their holdings and maintain them, the state of Serbia and the town of Leskovac to invest significant funds to help them. For example, through the field electrification project, the Leskovac End, 65.6 million dinars were invested. It was built over 37 kilometers of power grids and 220 land-uses in five villages where we got the ability to irrigate electricity, which is economically more cost-effective. In addition to electricity irrigation, these agricultural producers through the field electrification project have been enabled to heat plastics during the winter period to place their products on the market as early as possible. The Resolution Ministry for 2018 allocates significant resources to continue the field's electrification. In addition to agriculture, Leskovac is becoming a very important industrial city, foreign companies employ close to 5,000 Leskovcans, and thanks to the large engagement of Mayor Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, an increasing number of foreign companies are interested in opening their factories into our city. This was also contributed by the purchase of "Yugoexpress" property from synthetics, for which the town of Leskovac singled out a total of 70 million dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 185m dinars for the adaptation of the synthetic building. Very soon, Turkish companies "Jimsy" will move there to employ another three hundred workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44316	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Snow White Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44317	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers and honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law amending Article 20. The Law on PIO and adds a new position on 2nd -- that the provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia with a view to tax liability. The introduction of order in tax policy and how important it is for the country's economic stability is also confirmed by the newspapers that bring amendments and additions to the PIO Act. In the amendments to the Law on PIO, it is also proposed to suspend the Fund's authorisation to forcely charge unpaid pension-inhabited contributions to those who themselves are bonds of payment and contributions by suspending a third of the pension. This introduces order in the jurisdiction of the institutions, as the tax administration is responsible for controlling the collection of these contributions under the proposed amendments, the pension cheque will be paid to the beneficiaries according to the contributions paid, as the pension amount will be determined in accordance with the length and level of payment of the contributions. Newspapers are also about reducing the number of temporary fund solutions in the way of accounting, and the last year of retirement. Thus far, the last year of internships has been possible only after the end of the year and when the Republic Statistics Fund publishes the average annual earnings in Serbia, so the Fund had to make temporary decisions on the height of the pension check. As of next year, an armistice has been introduced from the duration of a temporary settlement to three years precisely due to the lack of data for the adoption of a final settlement at pension level waiting for the user to retire. This ensures greater legal certainty for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44318	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44319	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, fiscal consolidation measures are not a goal in themselves. Namely, when the Pension Reduction Act was passed in 2014, it took us time to recover the economy, open factories and new jobs, and thus ensure the safe financing of the pension fund and the functioning of the state. When we said that in 2914 in this same room, the former regime accused us of lying most brutally, of printing money, of borrowing the country further, of increasing unemployment and of continuing to reduce pensions. Today, the president of the SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, opened a factory in Nis to employ 1,100 people. With these 1,100 new jobs, it also means a better life for 1,100 families in Serbia, meaning that we are different from the former regime that closed factories, and we are opening them, means that we are leading Serbia in the way we promised in the election campaign and that Serbia will certainly come out of the financial economic crisis that the former regime introduced us into. With the pension-restriction law in place, pensioners in Serbia will have more pensions than ever, and every year will be bigger and bigger, not because we sell to the state, not because we are in debt, not because we are printing money, but because we are opening factories and new jobs from which we pay both pensions and salaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44320	Thank you, colleague Arsic. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44321	Thank you. The paper established by this bill also states that all those who make 45 years of work will be able to retire regardless of the years of life and will not be subject to penalty points, and the age limit will also be reduced for those with a well-favoured work experience, as well as for those leaving the workplace on special conditions. As the conditions for women shift from year to year, they gradually increase to 63 years by 2020 and to 65 to 2032, according to this the women will be removed. The expected GDP growth, increased payment of the PIO Fund's contribution, new investments and the current trend in employment growth will also give positive effects on the Fund's revenues. This should also contribute to analising the potential cost growth that will occur by removing the foam after reaching the general age limit. When we talk about foreign investment, I want to say that 55% of foreign investment in the region ends in Serbia. As you know, today for the seventh time in my hometown of Nis, the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has not been recorded since 1945, that one president or prime minister visited Nis so many times. The Cumtobel factory opened, a new 1,100 jobs. A new 1,250 jobs are expected to open tomorrow, which means life and the future for my fellow citizens, for their families, and that all means higher wages and pensions. All these data are a clear indication that the state operates systematically, makes decisions in accordance with the real situation at the current moment of economic and all other vital resources and that vulnerable categories of citizens are a priority group, and that all necessary measures are provided for in this law before successful realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44322	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44323	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored fellow Members of the People, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. This bill provides greater legal certainty for pensioners. The proposed change concerns the accounting of the last year of the insurance internship. According to current practice, the last year of internships was possible only after the end of the year, i.e. when the Republic Statistics Institute publishes the average annual earnings in the Republic of Serbia. So the Fund had to make temporary solutions to the requirements submitted during the year. This change significantly improves the effectiveness of the Fund's work and reduces administrative costs. Users who have suspended up to 1/3 of pensions because they have not paid all the contributions from now on will be paid pensions according to the contributions paid. The suspension of the powers of the Fund to make provisional payment of the contributions paid shall result in the demarcation of the competences of different institutions. A key factor guaranteeing a stable pension fund is the development of the country, new investment, new employment, which improves the relationship between workers, i.e. insurance and the number of pensioners, which is one of the government's main objectives, reducing unemployment. With that in mind, the proposed amendments and additions to the PIO Act, the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is achieved, and the amendment I propose further defines Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44324	Thank you. The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Blaža Knezevic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44325	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, the state of Serbia faced an extremely difficult economic situation in 2012. By irresponsible policy, our country, completely economically exhausted, has been brought to the brink of bankruptcy. Coming to power, the SNS took great responsibility over Serbian citizens. At that time, Aleksandar Vukic is launching radical reforms that have shown to bring about Serbia's economic rebirth. One of Serbia's most important segments of economic development is certainly the infrastructure that was the key to Serbia's accelerated economic development. Our country has become a network of corridors by investing in infrastructure, creating conditions for a large number of investors to arrive and create new jobs, and these are facts. Investments coming to Serbia are a guarantee of Serbia's economic stability, as well as an incentive to charge the pension fund. To point out that in 2012, we had 58% out of the pension budget, and now it's about 32%. Unemployment was 26%, now it's about 12%. We have a constant increase in minimum earnings. The third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Serbia is among the three fastest growing economies in Europe. This is achieved only by wise and determined moves, and primarily by working towards his people and the state, as Alexander Vukic does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44326	Thank you, my fellow Prince. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? Dalibor Radičević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44327	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. The objective of my amendment is to further define the draft law, and also to point to the importance of industrial development as one of the key branches on which the stability of finance depends, as well as the stability of the pension fund. Only if industrial production increases, i.e. If the number of new production companies is increased, the percentage of pension fund debt will be reduced from the state in order to allow for regular pension payments. Article 3 The draft law amends the provisions of Article 20. The Law on PIO, which refers to jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration. These provisions apply most to miners, and I can't, not to mention miners from the Alexine mine, as well as the Aleksin mine itself. How difficult and dangerous the work of miners is and how important it is that miners achieve benefits is best seen by the accidents that occur in the mines. One such accident occurred in 1989, when life lost its first shift, as many as 90 miners in the Alexandria mine. Along with their lives, the Alexina mine, a mine that has currently been tested for coal reserves larger than the total reserves of all other mines in Serbia, has been shut down. So I hope that the mine will be reopened as soon as possible, because it's a good way to put the economy in Alexinco back on sound ground, because the mine itself was a driver for the development of Alexander and the environment, as well as for the whole of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44328	Thank you, colleague Radicevic. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here's a colleague of Jancic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44329	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, respected ministers with associates, the amendment I have submitted insists on the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of the work of local self-government, which is a condition for a better life, not just for pensioners, but for all citizens of our country. The local self-governments, as previously left us in 2012, in Vojvodina in 2016, were in catastrophic condition, completely devastated, robbed and overindebted with abandoned production plants and workers whom we could only see at the door of the Employment Service, social work centres and the Red Cross. That's what happened in the New Prince. Exactly 20 years ago, for one user, the rights of PIO were 2.5 insurance companies, in order to make that relationship negative, or less insurance than pensioners in 2016. This is not the fault of demographic or economic movements, the bad economic situation, economic crisis or migration, those who took over Serbia on 5 October 2000, including Novi Knezevic, destroyed everything, committed robbery privatisation, and, as a rule, left workers without a job, but did not forget to make themselves rich. Only in the paper factory and the agricultural combination "Spasoje Stevic" were more than two thousand employees, none today. Many of these workers are retired today, in Novi Knezevic 2,355, where the average pension is only 24,454,00 dinars. Pensioners look forward to passing this law, look forward to increasing from 8.8% to 13.2%, especially looking forward to Serbia becoming a financially stable country with stable GDP growth, guaranteed that their pensions would only increase as opposed to 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44330	Thank you. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44331	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the honourable ministers with associates, the bill on amendments and additions in Article 3 you have proposed to make corrections in Article 20, in paragraph 3 when it comes to the possible reduction of the age limit to 50 years of life, and here you have suggested that the right to this reduction can be given to those who have two-thirds of an effective working internship on jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with an increased duration. For reasons of justice and justice, taking into account all aspects that can affect this article, I have proposed an amendment that I have proposed to correct this proposal and so much so that, instead of two-thirds of the employment period, one half would be required as a minimum with an increased insurance period. Since many conditions allowed us to start a working relationship in earlier times, we have a lot of these situations, starting with 15 years of life. I think that this condition with one half of the calculation of this internship, as we call it in the jargon the Beneficent, especially the one with the greatest increase, is really a real reason and a real basis for this correction to be adopted, given all the conditions that we can estimate that these people who worked on these jobs had during their working days and that we're going to even them out with those who didn't work on special terms and have no right to be reduced to 50 years of life as the upper age limit for retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44332	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44333	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Dear Ministers with Associates, I am pleased to note that when this government and its president, in a daily fight for a better tomorrow, Serbian citizens achieve visible results, it is as if colleagues across the road are bothered by it. Why? They were able to show and prove what they knew and how much they could. Unfortunately, they were thinking of meeting first personal appetites and at least citizens' needs. For comparison, I must say, unemployment in 2012 was 25.5%, and today it is 11.9%. Serbia attracted a record number of investments in 2017, thanks to which it was first placed on the top list of 15 countries by the number of foreign direct investments. Serbia attracted 118 foreign direct investments last year. In 2017 alone, an opportunity was created to employ over 20,000 of our citizens. Each of these new jobs creates a potential for improvement and directly affects the possibility of a better life for all of its citizens, as well as pensioners themselves. By issuing contributions from personal income and payment to the PIO Fund, the Fund is being strengthened daily, I hope that in the day of voting my fellow Members will accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44334	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Fired Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44335	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill shows that the Serbian government has not forgotten the pensioners. With good continuous work, a lot of investment, new jobs have gained conditions to increase pensions. As the government has not forgotten the pensioners, it has not forgotten the other citizens. I'll just give you a few examples. 5,000 jobs have been preserved in Smederev. Here, now we have a chance to see new investments coming from China, industrial park, tens of thousands of new jobs. Also, with serious investment in higher education, in education otherwise, in high technology, conditions have been created that we can slowly keep our engineers, our scientists to stay and start their working relationship and their families here in Serbia. Construction of highways and infrastructure has created excellent conditions for new investments and in those places that have been undeveloped in our country so far. What is particularly important is that Serbia has not forgotten its people or through Drina. Roads to Republika Srpska are planned, and we have had the opportunity to see that the government of the Republic of Serbia has invested fivem euros in developing local self-government in Republika Srpska and as much as 500,000 euros in rebuilding temples in the Federation of BiH. This is one of the good indicators of taking care of his people in the best way, wherever he lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44336	Thank you, fellow Pantovic. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has professors. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44337	Gentlemen of the Council, you remember that in the previous discussion, I said that I preferred the budget over the formula. I think the budget is the most important word to become a mantra for all citizens of Serbia, because if we take care of the budget and if the budget is full, we will have no problems. We will come into a situation to protect not those pensioners who have a pension of less than 25,000, but to protect pensioners who have a pension less than the average personal income in the next step. How are we gonna do that? By making sure that the budget is charged at all times. Where does the budget go? Well, at the bakery, at the store, at the bar, at the wedding, at every step of the way. So we have to wait for the bill. We need to be aware that it depends on ourselves whether or not the state gets its share in all those transactions that we participate in, in all the processes in which we participate, etc. So that consciousness must be present with the citizens of Serbia. If we succeed and, I say, we will succeed if we highlight the importance of the budget. There's no state, there's no state, there's no state if there's no budget. The budget has to be filled. I can't just fill the budget with tax administrations and taxpayers. The budget has to fill in every citizen in every place and in every process, and then, gentlemen, there won't be any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44338	Thank you, Professor. I'm gonna cry. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national envoy, Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44339	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I will take the opportunity to remind myself of the policy the SNS ran for in the 2012 elections. The slogan was "With all its strength in reform", and in our pre-election programme, we made it clear to the citizens, although they themselves knew that the country was in a difficult state and that difficult measures must be taken to stabilise the budget and public finances. That's what we offered, the citizens understood and chose us. So there was no deception. On the contrary, for the first time citizens heard the truth and the reality of the state. We told them we'd secure new jobs, do everything we could to preserve the existing. That's what we do all the time. We said we'd improve the country's reputation in Europe and the world, that's what happened. I can count for a long time, but it's a short time. What about everything we invest in better quality education? We build schools, kindergartens, health care. We're building hospitals and hospitals. Culture, we renovate museums, agriculture, economy, population policy. So it wasn't four decades ago and all of it evenly, in all of Serbia, and not just in Belgrade, as it used to be. Add built highways, military equipment, police equipment, etc. There's no area he doesn't invest in. We have the right to point out, because that's the result of our work. You should be ashamed of your hard work, not your honest work. All I said was visible, only Gilasu did not, since in a Belgrade settlement, at the time of the Belgrade elections he said a new school should be built, and the new school was already built two years earlier. We built it and the children attended it regularly. I want you to figure out what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44340	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44341	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, none of us can be younger than we are right now. We'd all like to live long. There is a saying: “We all want to live long, but we don’t want to be old. ” Since we can't be younger than we are right now, we're all future exes and we're all future pensioners, the ones we're not right now, and I want everyone to be pensioners for a very long time. I'm going to talk about agricultural pensions that seem less than social aid. It is a very bad message and the government should correct it in the future, especially with a supplement that can be added by its decision, because it is a message – better to be a social case than a peasant. If that's the case, then it leads to the sale of the property. People to retire before time, and the average age in the country is 59 years and the biggest poverty is in the country. They resort not to retirement, but to going into social cases because they sell out the property or translate it into someone else and then show that they have nothing and are a burden to the state in just another way. It's better for the state to add something to its pensioners and they keep on doing their own estates than fictitiously alienating them and really alienating them and so stop working and become social cases that drink beer bottles in front of the store. The average age in the country is 59 years, and we have to take care of it, and we need to see what we're gonna do with those tycoons, like those who robbed the PKK. If someone for a little more than a year the PKK makes a debt of 9 billion and 900 and some million or 990 thousand agricultural pensions, if someone in that same period, when all the poor, when 400,000 people are out of work, when the peasant pensions were less than social aid, if that someone, the leader of the Thieves, cheats and secics alliances, the Latvians, if for a few years in public office, earns 100 million euros or millions of agricultural pensions, I recommend the judiciary, above all, to seriously deal with tycoons from the alliances of thieves, frauds and Latvians, and to use that money not only for agricultural pensions, but also to raise agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44342	Thank you, colleague Risitčević. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44343	Thank you, Chairman. In my previous presentation, I pointed out the fact that pensions are not acquired by law, but rather by a changing economic category that depends on the economic power of society. So, again, pensions are acquired right and no one can abolish or reduce them, but pensions are not acquired rights, but a variable economic category that depends on the economic power and power of society, the power of its economy, the number and relationships of employees towards pensioners. So, all the false and malicious stories and insinuations we could hear here, that someone, quote, retired and that they should return to who they were taken into the water. No one's pensions were taken, that they would have to return, but were in accordance with the Law on the Provisional Retirement of Pensions' Payments had to be temporarily reduced to a justifiable level, all the way to the creation of economic conditions that would allow pensions to be financed from real sources, based on visible economic results. Today, after four years, these conditions are primarily due to Alexander Vukic and his wise policy finally created, the economy is visibly stronger, new factories are opening up and a growing number of employees are working. Such favourable movements have made it possible to fill better and more regularly both the PIO Fund and the budget, so that from real sources today pensions can even increase. The difference, therefore, is drastic, which some actors would say, between that yellow time, when pensions were raised for pension payments, with high interest rates, and this advanced Vukerov, when pensions were paid out of real resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44344	Thanks, buddy. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44345	Thank you, Chairman. The continuation of reforms will help those with the lowest pensions most because they will get an additional increase. We no longer have a budget burden that is critical of the survival of the entire financial system. Today, thanks to the great effort of our government, we are covering from the budget only 31%, unlike the previous 58% pension donations. Financial stability is necessary to promote internal stability. With the percentage of employment directly affecting the amount of pension payments through contributions and taxes, our government is making the most of it to attract foreign direct investment and encourage the development of economy and entrepreneurship. All current and future investments are indicators that the Serbian government, led by President Vukic, has created a suitable investment ground and a positive economic climate. All we have to do in the coming years is stick to that path, and what Serbian pensioners should definitely expect in the coming years are further increases in pensions and overall better life. This is a path that leads to overall development and financial stability, a course set by the Serbian government, a path towards SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44346	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44347	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have put an amendment to Article 3 that I want to put an accent on underdeveloped areas, from which I come, from Svrlig, where there is now stability in everything, where it is given the opportunity through the opening of new jobs, not only in the economy but also in agriculture, where through the cooperative programme there is a large number of our people who have now been given their jobs, that through association in the cooperative community there is a job to get a job and thus tomorrow can pay for pensions. Through this kind of work, there's an opportunity, now it's done, bigger pensions. It is my greatest pleasure that in this law we now give opportunity to our people who do the most difficult things, and to miners, and to police officers who do special tasks, and to military and airmen, that for the first time now we have the opportunity to retire at 50 years and to spend two-thirds of their working life on such tasks. Until this current law was different. So far, man has to do this job all the time until he gets a chance to retire. So if he had some problems over the past year or two, he couldn't do those special tasks or be in the mine, doing some easier jobs, that man couldn't retire. This law creates an opportunity and allows all these people to retire because we are witnessing that we have had really big and good workers and miners, as well as people who work in the military and the police, that now they are free to retire to enjoy it because they deserve it. Once again, I call on all my colleagues to support my amendments, to support underdeveloped areas, such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka and other municipalities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44348	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44349	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment concerns the implementation of the 2030 Agenda when it comes to the objectives of sustainable development, i.e. the halting of poverty, and the other is related to sustainable economic development and the growth of one country and economy, employment and decent work. What is important to say is that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic was indeed headed by a sub-regional conference concerning the implementation of this agenda, as Serbia really wants to turn to world flows. The result of the overall implementation of economic reforms in the past four years shows that on 3 August 2017, in the report, Di Intellectualjens branch of the Financial Times said that Serbia was a world leader in attracting foreign direct greenfield investments, that the reasons for this, in addition to economic reforms, are to reduce the time opening of the company in Serbia, then reduce the time involved in obtaining a building permit, access to the single market, as well as a major leap on the Duing Business List. Today we also had the opportunity to hear that new factories, such as 'Cumtobel' in Nis, were opened, and that more factories would certainly be opened by German investors, but we also have announcements of large investments from the Republic of China. We know that Bor has found his strategic partner who should be employed and stop firing 1,500 workers, 4,000 in Smederevo, when it comes to Željzar Smederevo, has been stopped from being fired and we have new employment in Zrenjanin by 1,000 Chinese investors. This is an indicator, in fact, where Serbia is going, going towards a period of high economic growth, which means, by doing so, high differences in GDP growth, which will give pensioners more and bigger additions and increases, which is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, as well as pensioners themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44350	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44351	Thank you, Your Honor. With this amendment regarding sustainable development, we continue the demonstration exercise primarily for colleagues across the street, unfortunately there is one, it appeared. What is sustainable development? Among other things, achieving sustainability on the social plan, through the elimination of poverty and all kinds of social pathology. Is that how it was in the previous period? No, unfortunately not. Now, we were forced after 2012, to change many laws, some of us were harmonised, some of us had to because of our direction towards the EU, but what I had left in my memory, and by bonding with pensions, by binding on all receipts and givings, that's the law on bankruptcy that we had to change because they managed to pre-declarate those privatised enterprises, you make a debt relationship to a dependent company, declare bankruptcy, a dependent enterprise takes over all the assets of companies in bankruptcy, workers remain on the street, without wages, without any social benefits, without any related internships and no future, without future pensions. There are cases like this in my city of the King, I know a lot of businesses. I mention the car factory, which was twice privatised, sold to the same buyer from Ukraine, in the end, the state of Serbia, after all the unprivileged privatisations, had to do the same buyer who did nothing for the company, who sold the cars that someone once did, to pay, I think, 13m euros in the International Court verdict and the corresponding damage because the contract was broken. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44352	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. By amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44353	Thank you, Chairman. Why are we completely different opinions? In a few days it will be October 5, 2018. Eighteen years ago, on October 5, 2000, when citizens went out on the street to defend the election results, when it happened that the State Security set this building on fire in an effort to trigger an army and police reaction, it was 18 years ago. But what remains at that time is debts that the then government, led by Slobodan Milosevic, the SRS remained in debt to pensioners, which is 12 pensions for every pensioner in Serbia, 18 pensions for every farmer in Serbia and 24 social assistance to every social grant recipient in Serbia. Two years of social assistance has not been received in Serbia. What is important is that there was also a savings called "old foreign savings" and all of it was returned to the last dinar, with a tight interest rate and a harmonised inflation rate. It was returned in the wars, but it was returned because it was one of the pre-election promises in 2000. What is today, from 2014 to 2018, is the situation that you have remained in debt to pensioners who have been kidnapped by the Constitution for the four years. Seven hundred thousand pensioners in Serbia have experienced that what they have earned fairly during their lives, that someone, by some law, with some excuse, has forever reduced and never occurred to them to return it. You say today that pensions will be bigger than ever. You say that pensions in Serbia are finally stable and growing. And how, when the Fiscal Council claims, as an independent institution, and very important when it comes to democracy in Serbia, the Fiscal Council argues that Serbia will get close to the countries of the African type if the ministers and the government decide, by their own free will, in the course of some election campaign, how much will it take to the pensioners and how much will it give them? So nowhere in the law does it say that pensions will be bigger than ever. That's your promise. You also promised in 2014 that it was a temporary reduction and that you would return it, so this law does not. So, you once failed the 2014 promise. How can 700,000 pensioners trust you now when you say that pensions will never be higher without writing in any letter of the bill that is here before us? Instead, the formulas for calculating pensions are abolished, formulas are removed, as the Fiscal Council says, and instead by arbitrary will, someone would say charity, pensions from the election cycle to the election cycle, and before the election, probably, a few months will be bigger, and immediately after the election a few months will be less. It just means that the hands of the regime are still deep in the pockets of the pensioners, which we disagree with, because there is no longer any legal certainty in people who have worked their whole lives, with the formula that existed, telling them exactly how much money they can count on at their age. They can't just count on how much money they're going to be paid for a pension fee, but they can't be absolutely sure if there's going to be any pensions at all. Because now there is no need for a Law on the temporary reduction and reduction of pensions, it can now be done by the Government, or by a resolutely in charge of the minister, however he wills and wishes, whenever he wishes. So the past work absolutely doesn't do anything anymore, no legal certainty. That means there is no more rule of law in Serbia. This means that the pensioner has no certainty when it comes to receiving, can't plan his age, can't know how much money he'll need for life, and that's what's terrible, and that's why we're against this amendment, and that's why we said at the beginning and the beginning -- you can't let down 700,000 people in Serbia. It's just not right. They didn't deserve it. You can't even the lowest pensions with the highest pensions. That's not right either, because someone did a lot of hard work, paid a lot more money in the pension fund, unlike someone else who did jobs and spent less money on pensions. With that in mind, I believe that this law, and the amendment together with it, is executed by the legal certainty of every pensioner in Serbia, even the one with the smallest pension, because even now even those with the smallest pension have no legal certainty that their pensions will grow minimally and that they will even have as much legal certainty with that minimum. Ten years have passed since the founding of the SNS. You've been on the political scene of Serbia for ten years. Are we today a society ruled by the rule of law? Are we more successful today than we were 10 years ago? Do young people escape from the country to a lesser extent today? Can a pensioner today provide his grandchild or grandson with a allowance from his hard work of life? Is there an institution in Serbia today that will protect every worker on the site who is registered on black, who has absolutely no protection, workers who have become more and more frequent in the past few weeks that without the necessary equipment are on the floors of 9, 10, 15, 20 floors? A few have tragically lost their lives, and we have seen absolutely no state reaction in this regard. You said you were going to change things in that sense and here, for a month now absolutely nothing happened. When it comes to a relationship with life, can that pensioner today help someone who is not employed in his family? Was that pension he had been reduced because his grandson got the job? How many people have been employed in the last four years, from 2014 to 2018? Who's busy? Are these the children of the officials of this country, or are they children or grandchildren of the pensioners of this country? The question is very clear, and I think the answer is also very clear. Ten years ago, the existence of the SNS was marked by the fact that 700,000 pensioners, such as the Yugoslav Army officer, who gave a statement a few days ago that he did not need letters from the president of the SNS, owed him 600 and 16 thousand dinars and that he expects almost 5,000 euros to be returned to him. Now, this law doesn't provide that. This law absolutely does not talk about legal certainty and the rule of law, and for this reason we have made a promise and we are undermining it again, we will return every penny that is owed to every man in this country, because these pensions are not cut down to hire someone's children in Serbia who have worked hard and earned a fair education, our diplomas, but only the directors who still have 10-20 000 euros in salary, who have huge incomes, a system that spends billions of dinars, failed projects that have taken away from us every kind of future, taken away from our young people, and taken away from the old ones. What's very important is that our promise is not based on whether or not some national election is close. Absolutely not. This law is such that it does not speak about whether money will return, the State Secretary of the Ministry said it would not even be safe, and that it was not the government's intention to return it safely, he said on the Committee on Social Affairs. We promise you that every penny will be returned and we promise that Serbia will never again come into this situation so that someone can make a man what's rightfully earned to kidnap and never return it to him. This may have happened in 1945 or 1946 in Serbia. This happened in Serbia in the 1990s, it happened in Serbia in 2014 to 2018, and it is high time to stop, because if anyone wants to live in this country, this country has to be arranged. Laws and the Constitution must be respected and it is not possible in this way to create one uncertainty that corresponds exclusively to SNS officials and those at the top of the government, while citizens are completely neglected, their grandchildren, their sons and daughters, and that is what is terrible for Serbia in the 21st century. For this reason, once again we underline, we will introduce legal certainty and we will return every penny, fairly earned, to every pensioner in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44354	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44355	I was thinking whether to answer, if it was worth spending time on something that Balsa Bozovic said, but since I feel sorry for him, I had to inform my colleagues. The man had a good night's sleep, refreshed like this came to the congregation, when it had no transmission, spoke for free for 10 minutes. But I wish I knew what he was talking about. Neither Djordje Milicevic nor you asked Arsic - said this amendment. I'm willing to bet pretty much he doesn't know what amendment, who submitted the amendment. What's a man talking about? He came here to remind us of five. October to say that the security services then set the assembly on fire. If he meant the security services that Djindjic worked for – yes, Germany. If he's referring to the security services of England, which he's worked for by Wolf Pozderac, then they are. So, a complete one, such a story, that he would spend time thinking he'd be in a transfer, thinking that he'd be heard by those of that alliance of theirs, wouldn't he agree with them, since I'm not sure he knows who he belongs to in that group, who they belong to at all, how many foreign security services infiltrated, how many there are, everyone works for some other security service. That's why he sees it when he reminds me of 5. October, the day all evil started for the state of Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia. Indeed, someone who was involved in 5 is now seriously boasting. In October, it is sad and miserable in that people – what they are ashamed of, Balsha is proud of it. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44356	Take it easy on my colleague Bozovic. Right on line, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44357	I thank my colleague Arsic. I had no intention of using the right to reply, but to speak according to the amendment, but the SPS was also mentioned, much has been mentioned that there are absolutely no touching points with the amendment that has been discussed and only in a few sentences. When can opposition colleagues talk about 5. October, I guess we have the legitimate right to state our position, our political stance on 5. October, about 24. September. I want to be absolutely clear and precise to say, 24. September and 5. October is a major fraud by Serbia and it is a symbol of the failed chances and missed promises. When I say big con in Serbia, I don't mean citizens, I mean those who organized, I mean those who funded, I mean those who implemented that 5. October. You know, as far as we're concerned, we're grateful to them. If it wasn't for that 5. In October, the SPS would not be modernised and reformed, we would not see who was in the party because of functions, and who was due to ideology, and as far as citizens are concerned, unfortunately, are citizens after that 5. October and 24. In September, they had the opportunity to see how much they know, or how much they don't know, who then took responsibility and how much they can, or how much they can't do anything in the interests of Serbian citizens. The key question when we're talking about 5. In October, the SPS will allow colleagues from the SRS, to mention you, where are they after 18 years today, and where are we? I mean those who organized that famous 5. October. We have been present for 28 years on the political scene of Serbia, not afraid of that 5. October, other religious ideas of social justice and fighting for an ordinary man and when it was hard to be a socialist. Today again from some association, call the Alliance for Serbia, threatening some kind of 6. October. We have told them again; we were not afraid of you, nor are we afraid of that 5. In October 2000, and today we are a relevant political factor in Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44358	Thank you. By amendment, MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44359	No, I was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44360	You were looking for a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44361	If I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44362	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44363	I've been mentioned twice. May I? Thank you. So, the fact that there's no transmission, I didn't say this because I wanted anyone's applause. I wanted to say that the revision of history is out of the question, and the SPS comrades didn't say that in 2008, but they said, maybe that 5. October wasn't so bad. Now, September 24th, there was an election theft. If you remember what happened a few days later, which was why the protests broke out when RIK counted the ballots so that it wasn't the result they had previously declared in the collection, and DB burned down the Parliament headed by Radet Markovic to trigger a reaction from the military and the police, because Slobodan Milosevic begged and cried to the Chief of Staff and the Police then to perform special units and the head of the DB, etc. And to calculate with his citizens, with half a million or millions of people coming out of the assembly. Why is the congregation on fire? She was burned for a simple reason to put a stain on the 5th. October, you've been doing it for 18 years, but it's "John's Day", one of the brightest days in Serbia's recent history, and then we decided to become part of Europe and part of our neighbours when it comes to reconciliation and peace. That's when we decided to become a normal country. I know it bothers you, and you won't be able to get your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44364	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remember 5. October. I came to the soul at night because I was picking corn that day, but my party had one wounded and that wounded one entered the Assembly first. Among millions of people, as far as it was said, no DB could have entered, that we understood each other, or could have burned RTS, ask Joe's manager, he'll say the best. I want to say something else. It's the departure to Belgrade on October 5th. We knew that thing was set up. I warned my members to guard the crowds, but that, according to the information we had, the matter was agreed with the police and with the military, that Milosevic would go over the demonstrations. When they said the tanks would come, I left from India. Goran Jesic stood at the centre of Indjija. Indjia viewers can confirm that. I'm ready to go to the polygraph, and I hope so, though I don't. He stood and waved a broken armchair from the Serbian Parliament in the middle of the square. We call that day in India - the day of the Holy Legs, because he triumphantly entered India, freed India with his foot from the armchair, waved, waved and waved with it, and then organized in the honor of the roasted ox. It is true about October 5th, as it is true that we all knew that Milosevic was losing convincingly, but Kostunica did not have 50% plus one vote. More truth is to say, Zoran Djindjic with whose policy these do not have a slight relationship, he wanted to go to the second round, but Kostunica did not want to go to the second round. So, Zoran Djindjic suggested we go to the second round, step on it, but Kostunica did not want to go to the second round, so Milosevic lost the election without the 50% necessary for Kostunica. All votes with KIM were rejected, so Kostunica would be president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44366	Right on line, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44367	My colleague Risticevic, you are absolutely right, and that is when I say a big fraud, on September 24th, Slobodan Milosevic has never lost in the elections and has not lost in the elections on September 24th. The Socialist Party of Serbia, what it said in 2008, speaks today, but you should listen carefully and understand what I said. I said why we're grateful for that October 5th. We're not running away from responsibility. We shared responsibility from 2008 to 2012. As we did, the citizens said in 2012. Our election score was doubled. But you know what, when you have nothing to talk about, when you have no arguments, when you don't have a proposal, when you don't have a solution, and you're talking about such an important and significant law, all you know is that you're against, then you mostly remember that October 5th, to try to get some cheap political points. Not possible today, 18 years after 5 October 2000. It is not possible today, because today the largest number of citizens, unfortunately, feels the consequences of that famous October 5th. They say they came on their wings and decided to be part of Europe. It is very interesting that those you then forced out of power today take historic steps when it comes to Serbia's entry as a full member of the EU. That's the key question, and that's what it's all about. After 18 years, where are those who did and who organized October 5th, and where are we? Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44368	You have no right to a colleague, Bozovic, to a replica. Absolutely not, no one mentioned you in any part. You can only pick up the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Charapic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44369	I thank the chairman. In 2014, we introduced fiscal consolidation measures that were both difficult or painful, but only from the first, possible solution, in the economic and financial situation as it hit our economy and the state and in 2012, resulting from the irresponsible bank policy of the previous regime. Thanks to reforms and fiscal consolidation, we today can boast of more than 180,000 newly employed workers, with over 100 factories, with a higher standard of living, with the country with the highest increase in foreign tourists, but that we are a leader in the region for foreign investors. Today we have a government that looks at all regions equally. That it was so taken as an example of my community. Recently, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic visited the municipality of Kursumli, and just over a year and a half ago, so did President Aleksandar Vukic, when he was prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because it never happened between 2000 and 2012. This all says that the state has strengthened us so much and that our finances are stabilised, that today we can equally invest in all regions of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the citizens of Belgrade and Nis and Kragujevac are equally important to our government, but also small municipalities such as mine, which is a feature of overall economic development, as is the amendment I have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44370	National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44371	As I have already said, the so-called so-called five years are being held in Serbia. A regional housing programme aimed at solving close to 17,000 refugee families. Unfortunately, to a significant extent, this programme is implemented very slowly, and works related to the construction of apartments and houses are performed very badly and unqualityly and that is what is not good. I'm going to give a negative example, a bad performance and a deadline break. This year, on 29 March, 49 refugee families from the Belgrade City Assembly received contracts for the installation of houses. The deadline for handing over those houses was the end of December last year. Here, at the end of September 2018, only five houses were handed over from a total of 49. Of these five facilities, three facilities still do not have water, electricity and sewerage connections, nine families refuse to make handovers, as the investor has not completed his part of the obligation to connect water, electricity and sewerage to their installation houses. The other 18 objects continue to run, and I said, poorly, unsatisfactory, people are dissatisfied, people are bitter and I ask the competent institution, project management units or popularly called the Jup Commissioner for Refugees, to take full responsibility to send a clear message to investors that such behaviour is unacceptable and that it is necessary for investors to respect the deadlines, to perform the works in quality within the given deadlines, not to send such a message. The message is bad, that the state of Serbia is not... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44372	I thank my colleague. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44373	When it comes to human resources, we must consider several aspects of human resources management. An analysis of the work, which involves defining knowledge, skills, the capacity needed to carry out concrete jobs, then training employees regarding the creation of conditions and the process of changing certain skills, skills and attitudes with the aim of improving the results in the organisation and third, in my opinion, very important, rewarding employees and improving working conditions. The human resource management process has an important and operational and managerial function. It is managed by the service involved, but it is necessary for the entire organisation to address human resources in order to achieve better results. The objectives of human resources management in the workplace are directly linked to the results achieved by employees, then productivity with the motivation of employees. Good human resource management should not be complicated, but not overly sophisticated. Therefore, according to the plans of the Human Resources Management Service, which can always be discussed critically on this subject, I believe that this issue should be legally resolved and therefore I have also submitted an amendment to a member of the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44374	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44375	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance is an issue that is important for a large number of Serbian citizens. We have today had the opportunity to hear from certain MPs, who were MPs of the parties who ruled Serbia until 2012, about the negative sides of this law, of course, in their opinion. However, none of them said that the fact that we had to cut pensions in the previous period was primarily the result of their relationship with the government till 2012. What is important to us is that unemployment is a significant reduction and that is one of the reasons why pensioners today can count on higher pensions than they did by 2014. The most important thing is that pensioners know that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia have a long-term goal, which is to lead a good economic policy, which will guarantee an increase in pensions in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44376	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44377	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance is in fact a fully sustainable law. And when we listen today to the Fiscal Council say something different, I would quote exactly that report of the Fiscal Council, to which the gentlemen concerned are called. On page 3, he makes it clear that, thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, the state of Serbia has made one unsustainable tax system, which meant that it translates into a pension system, makes it irrelevant and thanks to fiscal consolidation measures, enables the Republic of Serbia's budget, or 11% of the social gross product, to be a sustainable amount for pension payments. The fiscal council says it's in the Budget System Act. At the same time, a report by the Fiscal Council said that the system operating by 2014, i.e. 2012, was completely non-transparent and socially unsustainable. When we vote and make amendments to this law, we are actually building a fully sustainable and completely predictable law on pension and disability insurance. Practically, we are moving forward with a global economic strategy based on the 2030 Sustainable Economic Development Strategy, which the UN advocates. What is important, and what should be pointed out, is that in 2014 and 2012 respectively, in the years before those years, the part that we singled out, which comes from tax revenues, or from the Serbian budget, was 47-48%. It was completely financially unsustainable, and that's why today, when we adopt and work on a proposal to amend this law, we're actually working on completely predictable, transparent and increased pensions for the oldest and the population that certainly deserves... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44378	National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44379	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act are defined more precisely by certain provisions, with a view to overcoming practical problems. By abolishing the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, pensions are paid back to the level without a reduction, resulting from positive economic movements. This allows pensioners who have endured the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation to benefit from improving the state economy. Maintaining adequate pension levels is one of the basic objectives of the pension system. Legal regulation of pension increases and payment of one-time aid provide a basis for further improving the social situation of more vulnerable categories of pensioners. And in the end, I would end up quoting the president, Alexander Vukic, which is that the policy of the factory's results is invincible.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44380	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44381	Thank you. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, nearly a quarter of Serbian citizens are pensioners, 24.6%. Better health conditions should be provided for them, since aging should take more care of its health. As my amendment mentions the age limit, I noticed that in one part of the MPs, from one part of the opposition, who are not currently in the hall, in their discussions in principle do not distinguish between age and age. I remind you, aging is a natural, irreversible, irreversible, physiological process, and age represents only a certain lifetime. The speciality of the pension system is certainly the fact that, in addition to economic flows, it depends on demographic movements. The unfavourable demographic situation in Serbia has resulted in a steady decline in the number of insurance companies, while the number of pensioners has increased dramatically. In Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is amended in Article 20. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act adds a new position 2, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to improving health conditions." The amendment aims to further define the protection of the essence of the right to lower the age limit by the age of 50, for a working insurance... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44382	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44383	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian pensioners should always be recognised, because they are not guilty of anything, but those who have destroyed Serbia by their irresponsible and arrogant rule. Pensioners deserve every raise of pensions, and we have to remember why they're cutting pensions, so it never happens again. In 2008, when the whole world struggled with the global economic crisis by looking to save what could be saved, the then-Government of Mirko Cvetkovic was sowing confidence, demagogy and pulsism, saying that the economic crisis was a chance for the Serbian economy. In order to secure the congregation's majority, without any cover or foundation in the budget, they raised 10% of their pensions. That year, despite the legality of the economy and household budget management, despite the crisis, the collapse of the stock exchange, the melting of assets managed by investment funds, despite the IMF warning that Serbia is more vulnerable than other countries, as it spends 500 billion dinars more than it earns each year, thus throwing half a billion euros into grants. This way, because of voter appeal, the Serbian budget has been destroyed. For these reasons, a solution had to be found in the adoption of the Law on the temporary regulation of the basics for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from beneficiaries of public funds and the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of pensions, as measures to save what can be saved and prevent the bankruptcy of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44384	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44385	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic. My amendment is heading towards supporting this bill, but also to support all the results achieved by the Serbian government, and the results are numerous and, importantly, visible. I am pleased to say, for all of those, the economic indicators and factors that have been very taxed by the authorised SNS representative, Mrs Tomic, and this all says that Serbia is well on track that the state of public finances has recovered, that we have recovered economically, that the PIO Fund is stable, which all resulted in the abolition of the Pension Reduction Act. It's something that not only those who have an extremely bad intention see. So, only those who don't want to see these effects they're trying to criticise, but without any argument. And, as you could see during today's debate, some showed up at six or seven o'clock in the evening, tried to tell a story in 10 minutes and then better turned around and fled from the National Assembly and was again empty, that is, an empty part of the hall where these members of the so-called hall. the opposition, or party to the former regime. I'm glad that we had the opportunity to crack their policy, to find out that their policy, or their political message, can come down to that scandalous tweet, or social media announcement that we talked about several times today when it comes to the leaders of that so-called. Alliance for Serbia. For all these reasons, I want to support this bill and I hope that in the day of voting and voting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44386	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44387	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as circumstances change in the economy and society in general, so the pension system must be adapted, because there is a likelihood that the crisis is going to happen. The growth of expenditure faster than income growth, the unfavourable ratio of pensioners and the number of insurance workers, the participation of pension expenditure in GDP in 2012, which amounted to over 13% are all the reasons our pension system brought to crisis, and pension payments in 2012 are subject to major question. What marked 2014 are fiscal consolidation measures, as covering the pension deficits has become a major pressure on the budget. The government of the Republic of Serbia was then headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in this area to face serious problems that needed to be addressed urgently and then proposed a Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid to reduce pensions. The savings at the monthly level amounted to about two billion dinars. Just as a result of the difficult measures, but also responsible economic policies, this government can now propose the adoption of laws that will mean an increase in pensions. Pensioners will receive an October pension, which is paid in November with an increase, as well as all pensions on the move. The adoption of this bill will repeal the Pension Reduction Act by 30 September at the latest. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also shown a serious and high level of responsibility to our oldest citizens, as well as to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this is part of a major state system. Accordingly, I will also support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44388	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44389	Article 4 refers to Article 46 of the basic law and it is interesting not in this sense as it is written, not even disputed, but it is about paying contributions to pension-involvement insurance, as it writes here, on any basis for which there is a obligation to pay contributions under the law. It would be good, here, the minister is here all day, and now he's coming out, to get information about how many people in Serbia today who don't still have the so-called so-called. related internship. There's a lot of trouble from that Balsha thing on October 5th, even to this day with people who worked in companies that didn't pay their contributions. Here, let's say a year ago, maybe ten years ago, even in a year, this Assembly didn't pay a contribution to the employees, and I said this by the way. I'm talking about those companies that used to be serious firms, which, as far as possible, brought these dominoes down as low as possible so they could buy them, and then they kept the workers until they ran out of that two-year term as per the purchase contracts so-called. The privatisations were required not to change their performance. Then they gave these people some church girl to barely survive, but they didn't pay the contributions. Several times, the National Assembly intervened on a proposal from the government. Several times these contributions have been paid for these people, but we still know, there are a lot of Serbian citizens who can't retire even though they think they have enough years of internships, they have enough years to live, but their contributions haven't been paid for a certain number of years, and we think that they should really draw a line once and for all, and that nobody... These people are simply not guilty of working for irresponsible employers, which in the country was irresponsible to these employers, at all, according to obligations, to funds, etc. It must be subdued once and for all, and all these people must be paid contributions in order to have equal conditions for retirement, as have other people whose contributions have been paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44390	The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44391	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under this law is exclusively about the nominal amount of pensions, i.e. their return to 2014 level, with all the increases that took place in the meantime. However, we need to know that it's only one aspect of looking at pensions. Pensions are a complex category and must be seen with more aspects and on many sides. We all in this room know what the retirement age is right now. We also know the dynamics towards which our ladies will catch up with our men and equalize themselves with them for the right to retire. However, we also know that this government is absolutely pro-European, but there is nowhere to be said to be an age-old retirement limit in the EU for 67 years for men. That is why I ask the competent minister, although I do not see him here, whether in this respect the Republic of Serbia will follow the EU, but based on all the experience we have so far, that is the thing that will be imposed by the EU. That's why all of our citizens who, for example, have at this point five, six years to exercise the right to retirement should not be surprised, that is to say, to look forward to that pension, because it can be very easy to happen when this right comes true to extend that time period right then. So the situation is that people have to work longer for shorter pensions. All this boasting about this law to increase pensions based on this falls into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44392	On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44393	She made the introduction of a colleague of Radet, related to an unpaid job internship and went to the one whose father bought the car and boasted about it. I mean this ball of unfortunate Christmas. He's thirty-five years old. What was he doing and what did he earn when he waited for his dad's pensioner to buy him a car at 35? He did nothing, of course, except work for the interests of those who do not want Serbia well. Also, your first founder and president, since some of you are getting, Tomislav Nikolic, unfortunately former president of Serbia, has done nothing for individual workers in Serbia, specifically for workers in Paracinska Glass, because this Bulgarian tycoon Cvetan Vasilev, who has been a partner in business with Nikolic and the main sponsor of the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, has also left people, who have worked in the most famous glass factory in the Balkans, perhaps in Europe since the end of the XIX century, without a work experience. Mr. Minister, for some of those workers, you did it. My particular question is - what will workers who had to do after such a thieving, such as this Nikolic tycoon, such as all the other tycoons and those who bought the Buddha why the companies after the arrival of these thugs to power, what will these workers who sued the state do now, because at that moment, the DS government did not promise them that they would do so and link the internship to them? They're supposed to drop the charges now, and there's a lot of expenses, right, and you know it, they were probably coming to you to pay for suing the state. How are you going to solve this, because it's about the information we have, more than 150,000 people?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44394	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44395	Dear Mr. Arsic, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few sentences specifically about the amendment I have proposed. So in Article 4. The draft law amending the applicable Article 46 after Article 1 of the proposal is to add a new position 2 which reads as follows: ‘The tax administration shall, under its official duty, control the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for each quarter (the quarterly)’. What is the point and what is the goal of the proposed amendment? First of all, to increase the control of the payment of contributions by employers, one of which is unfortunately avoiding the payment of contributions or doing so, I say unfortunately, irregularly again, all at the expense of the workers, because at the end of the day, workers will have as much pension training as they are paid for, which is very clear and precise and defined by the legal proposal that I am talking about. Therefore, enhanced, strengthened, regular and mandatory payment control to protect workers, and thus the fund is also the objective which is to be achieved by proposing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44396	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Joseph Broz. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44397	Thank you, Chairman. We are at the very end of the debate on the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, so I am giving myself the right and the freedom to recapitulate all the positive effects that will be achieved through the adoption of the proposed law. These positive effects are primarily seen in: changing the way in which the amount of early retirement pensions is calculated for insurance who have an increase in the cost of insurance, harmonising pensions according to the rules governing the budget and the budget system, reducing the number of temporary resolutions of the Republic Fund for pension and disability insurance through changes in the way of the last year's payment of insurance benefits, suspending the fund's authorisation to make forced payment on behalf of outstanding contributions to the PIO by suspending one-third of pensioners who themselves are taxpayers of contributions to the PIO, harmonising parent records with the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, setting up a pension card in order to facilitate the use of pension benefits, creating opportunities to increase the payment of money with pensions, depending on economic movements and financial opportunities for the adoption of pensions, while ensuring that there is a significant change in the way of pension. All these are important reasons to support the proposed law in the voting day, which the SNS will do with great satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44398	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44399	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in my previous address, I began to talk about a demographic situation, which is not only a problem for Serbia, but also for most European countries. On the one hand, we have the fact that nations are getting older, which naturally leads to a greater number of pensioners, but on the other hand, the reasons should be sought above all in the extension of the life span of the population. However, on this occasion, I reiterate my hope that the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the assistance that parents will receive for children will bring a significant increase in natural growth. However, the system that was in place was not adapted to changes in the demographic movement of the population, the previous authorities had bad policies that brought finance to the brink of collapse, and the budget was so overburdened that the state had come to a state of total harassing. With the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party and the measures primarily advocated by Aleksandar Vukic, we have come to the situation that we can talk today about that pensions to government decisions will soon be higher than those of 2014. There were many who attacked the government's decisions, many who said it was an unsustainable condition. Today, they can only congratulate on reforms and policies that have led to economic growth being visible, public debt reduced, and the budget liquid. Those who heroically took on and understood the importance and need of reforms, those who saw to the greatest extent what the situation was like for Serbia, were just pensioners. So I am taking this opportunity to congratulate all pensioners on the highest degree of social responsibility, because this is how the state defends itself and takes care of its descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44400	Thank you. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Boban Birmancevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44401	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, I submit an amendment to Article 4, in the sense of adding Article 2, which reads: "The provisions of this law encourage the overall development of the Republic of Serbia, with a special reference to the rule of law." Thanks to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian budget in 2015 is always in plus, i.e. the third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget. Such a policy allowed the state's attitude towards Vranj and the Pcinj County to change. In fact, Vranje today has the support of a state that never existed. A number of infrastructure projects are being carried out. For example, three days ago in Vranjska Banja, two very important projects with a total value of 14.3m euros began work on the realisation of two very important projects, which is the project of building a collection of fecal sewers on the route Vranjska Banja – Vranje in length of 7.7km, with complete reconstruction of atmospheric and fecal sewerage in five streets in the town of Vranj. Realising this capital investment solves the problem of wastewater in Vranjska Banja, which is one of the basic preconditions for the development of tourism in this town, which has all the predisposition to become a serious tourist centre. In addition to this collector, the construction of a wastewater treatment plant is under way, whose realisation will solve the problem of wastewater in Vranj. Also, I would mention that besides these two projects this year, Vranje is likely to be the first city in which 186 cheap apartments for members of the security service will begin. All this evidence is that the state, thanks to the responsible policy of our president, is present on every part of its territory, especially in Vranje and the South, where, as we all know, it has been absent for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44402	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44403	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, today and in the previous days, we are discussing and presenting our opinion on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disabilities, first of all in the principle debate, and here we are, a few days and in particular. So far, we've talked about changing the way we calculate the amount of early retirement for insurance companies with a well-favoured working time, then, the benefits involved in calculating the last year of internships in reducing the fund's administrative obligations. But what, of course, took away most of the debate is an increase in pensions for nearly 1,750,000 pensioners in the Republic of Serbia. All these changes that I have listed and which I have not cited, which are in the amendments and additions to the law, are in favour of the insurance company, i.e. in favour of pensioners in Serbia. Of course, we all agree that pensions in Serbia should increase, but we should not forget the law that follows us, which will come on the agenda in the coming months ahead of the National Assembly, which concerns the increase in salaries of those who work in the public administration, i.e. those who work in local self-government and state bodies. If we're heading towards the digitisation of public administration, if we're going towards the modernisation of the state administration, we need to have a quality and professional frame, and they, among other things, can be kept in state authorities and with an increase in salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44404	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44405	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, one of the main objectives of SNS policy is to improve the quality of life of its citizens, and the improvement of pensions is exactly in favour. I have submitted an amendment relating to the protection of vulnerable social groups, and I must say that this law and how it recognises the protection of vulnerable social groups, particularly through the regulation of ways of payment for persons under custody, for persons deprived of their job skills and for persons, or for those who are in retirement institutions. The payment method for them shall be regulated by making payments on the basis of the decision of the competent authority, and for users located in social protection institutions on the basis of the decision of the competent authority and on the account of the institution in which they are located. Also, this law recognises the issuing of pension cards as the obligation of the Republic PIO Fund on the basis of which pensioners will certainly achieve some of their benefits. This law also recognises a different way of determining authority. In fact, the authorisation granted by the pensioners will not be valid for 12 months, but will be valid until the recall of the beneficiary, or publisher of that authorisation. The law also recognises the procurement of special aids for blind users, as well as for the blind children of the user of pension disability insurance. In the end, I would end up with a sentence that Aleksandar Vucic, when visiting the Gerontological Center in Bežianjska Kosa, directed to pensioners, which is – you opened the door to our country's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44406	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44407	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, the Law on the Temporary Determination of how pension payments were made in 2014 as a temporary measure necessary to cure the country's economic and financial situation. A number of results are recorded from 2012 until today, especially in the field of financial consolidation and as a result of positive economic movements, we are able to return the pensions to the level without a reduction and thus provide a better position for all pensioners. Three years in a row, Serbia notes GDP growth and surplus in the republic's budget. Such a situation suggests that economic reforms have been successfully implemented and that pensioners can expect to grow in their incomes in the future. As my amendment speaks of improving the school system, and the need for Serbia's overall development with economic and other necessary reforms must continue. In particular, reforms of the education system have to be continued, with significant progress being made in the part of this system relating to the education of national minorities. The ministry specifically indicated a high degree of co-operation with the Slovak national minority, which I belong to myself. I am sure that the overall reforms that this government is implementing will make my people's position as a loyal nation of Serbia even more favourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44408	Thank you. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44409	What Serbia has been trying to cure and what has succeeded in a serious and responsible policy has managed to overcome, these days cannot hide those for whom it is clear that they are clearly biased. The truth is so obvious that even they themselves, no matter how hard they try to shape it, they can't hide it. Among other things, here's what the press says is favored by the tycoon-grindly coalition, these Sundays, when it explains the 2008 developments and the crisis period. "As the world choked in an unrecorded economic crisis and crouched to get out of it, Serbia had fun with its misery." They say further: "As the world sought to save and raise money lost in financial markets, a new government in Serbia, the DS authorities decided to immediately throw half a billion euros to raise pensions." They say further -- that the DS government and their president had no awareness of the tsunami that is coming to Serbia from Wall Street, have easily crossed over the heads of the IMF mission in Belgrade, Albert Jager, who claimed that Serbia is more vulnerable than other countries in the region, because each year it spends 500 billion dinars more than it earns. Further, they say, "The global crisis hit Serbia hard in the fall of 2008. In October, the dinar's sunflower begins. He records new record lows on a daily basis. The value of assets managed by investment funds melts from 63m euros to 27m euros, the Belgrade-based stock exchange has lost 75.32% in shares, with the fourth largest loss among the world's stock exchanges. “ When those who seem to favor them say this way, it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, how irresponsible was that, how disastrous for this country, how can the full truth be? Fortunately for Serbia, today everything is done is absolutely contrary to this irresponsibility and haughtiness and this obviously to a good degree and deliberate devasion of everything these people, unfortunately, have managed at that time. Well, because it's done differently, that's why it's much better today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44410	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44411	Thank you. The respected ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to Article 4 overcome the problems that arise in practice with regard to the different basics of insurance and its application, all insurance companies shall be placed in the same level of equal standing and shall make sure that in the insurance arrangement the time for which the contribution for pension and disability insurance is paid is accounted for on any basis. The president of Serbia, the Serbian government and the SNS are doing everything they can to make it better for the citizens of Serbia to finally be nicer and safer alive. To this end, there is also coordination and improvement of the legislation regarding the pension disability system and our aim is to establish a long-term sustainable system, which provides greater social and material security and higher overall pension levels. There's been a lot of work in the last four years and now we have a stable Republic PIO fund. His stabilisation created conditions for the abolition of the Pension Reduction Act, and I must stress that this is undoubtedly the first law since 2001 to have any positive changes in favour of pensioners and future pensioners. The President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, has repeated several times, and this is indeed a reality, that we all need together to have a high degree of social responsibility, primarily according to the oldest, because when many took sides, pensioners planted their shoulders and they are the most responsible for successfully implemented fiscal consolidation. The pensioners made their unmistakable contribution, and now it's up to all of us to repay them. Pensioners are almost the best consumers and thus make a significant contribution to increasing public spending, which is very important. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the law in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44412	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44413	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is further defined by Article 4 of this Law. By passing the Law on Temporary Reduction of Pensions, which we know has been in force since October 2014, our President, our Government and SNS have been unargumented for reducing pensions, although the said law has excluded 61% of the poorest pensioners from reducing pensions because their incomes were less than 25,000 dinars. By passing the law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, all pensioners who had pensions of up to 25,000 dinars and had no pension cuts will have 13.3% increase, and those pensioners who had pensions of over 120,000 dinars will have 8.4% increase or 130,000 dinars. Thanks to the responsible policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, has been recorded intensively developing in the field of health and the fact that 7.5m euros have been spent for reconstructions of the Tirshkova Children's Clinic, as well as for magnetic resonance, mobile x-ray machines, angiosal, instruments, etc. And that 54m euros will be invested for the Tirshova 2 Children's clinic will certainly contribute to improving health conditions and improving the quality of life of all our citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote for this and other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44414	Thank you. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague of David's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44415	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which is another example of the responsible authority led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic. The result of the responsible policy that we have conducted over the past six years is also seen in the fact that inflation has never been less, that we have had a stable rate of dinar for six years, that on January 1, 2019, public debt will be less than 47% which has not happened in the last few decades. With constant investment in our economy and capacity, we have GDP growth of 4.9%, one of the two highest growth in Europe at this time. Serbia is a stable and well-organised state, and that is what the first half of this year's investment was at 1.4 billion euros, which is 15.6% more than in the previous year. Today, Serbia attracts 56% of total foreign direct investment for the entire Western Balkans. The SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day, as they make a significant contribution to strengthening our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44416	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44417	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have often been able to hear in the past three years that we from the SNS, that the Serbian government and MPs in the National Assembly who voted in favour of the Law on the provisional arrangements for the payment of pensions to someone, that we robbed, that we had put our hands in someone's pocket. I, for the sake of Serbian citizens, want to say that in 2015, the Constitutional Court of Serbia rejected an initiative to launch a procedure to determine the unconstitutional nature of this law and its disagreement with the Constitution and approved international agreements. In 2015, the Constitutional Court found that, when it comes to pensions covered by the law, the initiator’s claims were made that the pension acquired under the law constitutes the property of the pensioner, but indicates that the Constitution does not give rise to a guarantee of pension payment in a certain amount, since the restriction of property rights under certain conditions is allowed both under our Constitution and under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. As a result, I quote the Constitutional Court's decision that the prescribed measures are regulated by law, that the law does not touch the pension right, that the measures are prescribed to achieve a legitimate objective because the creation of conditions for the regular payment of pensions is even in a reduced amount of general and public interest. Then, that there is proportionality in the regulation of measures because these measures are less affected by persons with lower pensions, which is achieved precisely by the fact that the percentage of the reduction is not the same for all pensions of more than 25,000 dinars. Finally, given that the measures are temporary, the Constitutional Court has assessed that they cannot be accepted as the established allegations of the initiator of the disputed law with the Constitution and the approved international contracts. So, there was no robbery, there was no hand-to-hand in anyone's pocket. This was one necessary measure so that even pensions in Serbia could be paid off.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44418	Thank you. By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44419	We will not agree whether or not pensions should have been reduced in time. We Serbian radicals spoke then, we say, and then we said that this should not have been necessary, that there were other ways and other opportunities not to finance NGOs, agencies unnecessary, etc. Of course, this Constitutional Court decision we just heard, it's also for a serious debate, not today and not here anyway, but it can't be the Constitutional Court, it can be said, but it's not normal to say that something doesn't evaluate because it's temporary. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, our main objection to this bill of amendments and additions to the PIO Act is why has absolutely no new law been proposed? This, I don't know what, 10, 12, 13, I think this is 13 changes, and that fact itself speaks of how dysfunctional and bad and often inapplicable the law is. We expect to get such a proposal once in a while, and then to discuss all the details and this here because we have several key remarks that we have made through these amendments, but unfortunately thanks to this system of work, there will be no opportunity to talk about these amendments. So, what we've been talking about all these days and what's really important to us is a message to the pensioners that we're not going to agree on again, but definitely in this bill, tomorrow you're going to adopt it, so it's going to be law, it says that, now I'm paraphrasing, pensions are going to be harmonised against the state of the budget. We can't trust any government, not a single minister to tell the real truth about this state in the budget so they can possibly increase pensions or not increase, and however theoretically there's a possibility that this provision means that pensions can increase by 100%, so theoretically they stay and the possibility that pensions never increase again and you really can't slow down. We are also sorry that the laws represented here by Mr. Sarčević, the Law on High, above all changes and additions to higher education...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44420	Well, don't let Radeta's colleagues talk about the second law now.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44421	Please, just one sentence, I'll finish and let you enjoy yourself. So, the basic message of this law where we intervened with the amendment is also a proposal that, like every time it is our proposal, to propose a whole new law, to free ourselves more of this misery from Bologna, and in this current law on amendments and additions, the amendment proposal and the amendments to the law, we have proposed that this Article 17 definitely does not limit the end of the study. Everyone has the right to study as much as they want. I can see that Mr. Arsic would not allow me to keep talking about this, and we did have a lot of objections to the education system at all, in the way books are printed, in the engagement of Croatian companies doing this in Serbia, in relation. In fact, the first thing you have to do, Mr. Sarcevic, is give your dignity back to the teachers. From this, believe me, there will be many solutions to the problems that have accumulated. As long as you have a situation that every student, or every parent, or every bloated uncle and uncle can come and insult a teacher, there's no education, and the state is doing nothing to solve this problem. Not to mention the drug problem, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44422	My colleague Radeta, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44423	She's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44424	It's been four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44425	Well, there you go. It could've been another minute, but anyway, so here's the deal. The Serbian Radical Party, our parliamentary group will not vote for these proposals and we expect more serious proposals from ministers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44426	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44427	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, it's a shame that we're already entering the eleventh hour of today's debate, but the representative of Gilas's tycoon Latvian alliance is gone, and I was just thinking of reminding them of some things from their period, since they obviously have amnesia for that period. From 2008 to 2012, about 500 children were treated outside Serbia, and today, nearly 2,000 children have been treated from the Republic Health Insurance Institute, i.e. the Fund and from the budget fund over the past four years, which means that as many as four times as many children have gone to treatment and that two and a half times the funds have been allocated more. While our Government, our President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, took care of everyone, both the pensioners and the youngest, they only cared about the lives of their ministers at the time, so some ministers did not trust their colleagues, and we know that our doctors were the best in Europe, went to operate in other countries, and the sick children died and were not taken care of. Now, we're not following their path, so we have huge support, and they, as they're not in the O.R. now, so after the next election, won't be on the political scene of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44428	Thank you. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An amendment that highlights the importance of culture certainly has places in every law, because the fact is that it can live without culture, but with culture is certainly easier, better and more dignified. Economic conditions that correct living standards provide every improvement in that direction. A great effort is needed to make economic progress, especially when it starts from scratch. Today's rule in Serbia deserves all praise and all respect, because it is dedicated entirely to people's affairs. And how does it come back from those who also enjoy all the benefits of better economic policy? Examples in my town, Zrenjanin, Mr. Laketic mentioned the largest Chinese investment worth $1 billion. You heard me well, a billion dollars. It is a great figure for both America and Germany, for every European and for every developed country, let alone for Serbia. But what are the answers? First, it's a Chinese tire company and, of course, we immediately got a slap on the face of dirty technology, pollution. Then when we reminded the citizens that from the 1950s until recently, and in Zrenjanin, there was a factory called Tegum, which, unfortunately, disappeared in privatisation, like other grain enterprises, and there was never any pollution, it was forgotten. This is about state-of-the-art technology.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44430	I thank my colleague. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44431	Mr Arsic, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, article 4, states that in the insurance arrangement, the time paid for the contribution to the PIO is to be counted on on any basis. In this way, the problems that arise in practice in relation to different insurance bases are overcome, and all insurance companies are brought into the same equal position. The key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the pension disability insurance system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and new employment, which will improve the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners. Since the system is funded on the principle of solidarity among generations, i.e. The current employees finance pensioners, due to positive developments in the country's economy, and hence the situation in the Republic of Serbia's budget, ceases the need for the fact of the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, so that the law is abolished at the end of September 30, 2018. The basis for the payment of pensions for October 2018 and its further harmonisation makes the pension paid for October 2014 in accordance with the applicable rules. What I'm still trying to say is that today, Alexander Vukitch opened a factory in Nis, opening a factory in Nisska Banja. These two factories will employ 2,250 workers. Thus, President Vukic supported the even faster development of Nisavsky, Pirotski, Toplitski. The Jablanic and the Pchinian County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44432	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44433	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on PIO which I and my colleagues will support from the parliamentary group are proof that the society that goes forward. Thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's policy, we live better, we open factories, new jobs, we build a modern society. The trend in economic growth has led to the elimination of pensions for users with higher pensions that we owe a great debt of gratitude for understanding and support and with which we are on the same task, which is to establish a financial, stable, healthy and strong state. I would like to point out that the pension system of the Republic of Serbia has been fully recovered, on stable feet, so that pension payments are made regularly and unquestionably with the promised increases given to us by the minister and his team here before us. That's why we support these laws that will bring us better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44434	The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44435	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here comes the end of the debate on amendments to the Law on PIO. Our pensioners will receive significant pension increases from 8.2 to 13.2%. Serbia is taking safe steps forward and it is already obvious that we are not all repeating the same thing all day. What I must say and point out is one lie, only one in a sea of lies brought by members of the former regime, led by Dragan Gilas, today in the alliance with the rape of Serbia who said we had given the PKK in vain. Another big lie, the same PKK brought a huge minus, they ruined the factory, only in 2017 the combination had a minus 80m euros. We expect with this privatisation that the PKK will work ten times better than it has worked and will contribute significantly to GDP growth, where those who work in the PKK will have decent salaries and their families to live on and to be able to export from these good products, that Serbia has higher incomes and a better product from the PKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44436	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vlado Babic has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milena Turk has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Stanislav Janosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the people of Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aaleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Stojadinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sandra Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužić Puzić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zivan Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the people, Serbiaslav Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP LJubisa Stojmirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Stanislav Janosevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Bagica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Pantovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mikhailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Drecun. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Desanka Repac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mlada Lukic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Vjerica Rade, together Bosko Obradović, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Marija Janjušević, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić, together Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivković, together, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinović and together Saša Radulović, Branislav Mihajlović, Ana Stevanović, Branka Stamenković, Ratko Jankov, Dusan Pavlovic and Jasmina Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dejan Sulkic, the MPs of the SDS group and the MPs of the DS group together, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and the MPs of the SDS group together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS and the joint MPs of the Parliament group of Members together submitted to the 36th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Parliament group, the Members of Parliament, the MPs of the Parliament group, together, submitted enough. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 37. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MPs of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the parliamentary group enough. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vladimir Đuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandra Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Christmas submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44437	Thank you, Chairman. Here's the thing. The amendment we have made is actually an amendment that we support the position of the Retirement Trade Unions, so that the suspension of the provisional Pension Reduction Act is regulated by the adoption of a special law. Let us now ignore the economic justification and constitutionality of the temporary four-year pension reduction. About why the government had to cut pensions we've heard a lot of the previous days. Let us also ignore how much pension cuts have been reduced by occasional pension increases during the current interim law in four years through its correction. I suggest we ignore how much higher pensions will be after the suspension of the provisional law and the question of how pensions will be harmonised, by measures, by regulations and by how much government will show treason and whether they will be greater and more predictable than what the Fiscal Council requires. These are all special topics and we would have something to say for each of them and in the far line it was said in today's debate and the previous days. All of this has nothing to do with one unabsolute fact, which is that during each month, pensioners received less of a provisional law than they would have received if the provisional law had not been. Each outstanding difference represents a loan, it should represent a loan, which pensioners have given to the state by force of the letter of the provisional law each month. That loan has to come back, otherwise it'll get the character of permanent taking. Forced by a provisional law, a prescribed loan may have the character of temporary depriving of the right to dispose of the property, but if the money is not returned, then it assumes the character of the permanent withdrawal of the right of ownership of the property, because pensions are property and according to the position of the Constitutional Court. It's something that shouldn't be allowed. The Constitutional Court has taken over that pension is property and that their reduction is equal to taking someone's room in the apartment. The Constitutional Court has accepted pension cuts on condition that it is temporary and that it is at a time of crisis. Those crisis conditions are gone. Members of the ruling majority and representatives of the government are praised for the results of economic policy and, at the very least, the provisional law is repealed. We believe you're right when you say the crisis is gone. If the Government remains in the position that under Article 4 of the Interim Act any payment is final, pensions are not returned, but we only have to stop taking part of future pensions with the permanent taking of part of the property, part of pensions from the past four years. If the outstanding pension differences made during the period of application of the provisional law are not paid to pensioners, then it will not be taken to have the character of temporary, in crisis conditions limited to the availability of property, but will have the character of a permanent confiscation of property ownership rights, which is an inadmissible violation of property rights for the candidate country of EU membership. As a member of the EU, Lithuania reduced pensions from 2010 to 2013 and returned the total amount of reductions made, around 247m euros, to pensioners over the next three years. There is also documentation on official EU websites, the European Commission. They had less money at stake. They're probably better off standing than us, so they could get it back in three, and we think we can get it back in five years. If this had to be Lithuania as an EU member, we think we must do the same as the candidate country. It should not turn out that our government treats its pensioners and their rights worse than Lithuania, Lithuania. Respect for the property rights that we now have the opportunity to demonstrate restores citizens' trust in institutions, which also raises investor confidence, reduces the need to attract investors to subsidies, and this can contribute to economic growth. To make our economic growth grow 6% -7% a year is key trust. This is what makes the difference between the current growth rate and higher growth rates, and trust is gained by respecting property rights. Our proposal is to trace pensioners' demands that the pension gaps not paid during the four years of validity of the provisional law be returned and that we support and to prevent possible court costs for the state, since we have information that the Retirement Union has filed claims against the International Court of Justice, the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, because these costs will again fall to the burden of budgets, citizens, pensioners and we appeal that an agreement be reached. The return of the loan must go on interest, as loans are so returned, for all the time each pensioner spent in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the day the Government of the Republic of Serbia kept it until the day of final payment to every pensioner. It is also obvious because of the amount of money we are talking about, that this return will have to go to wars and that it can be negotiated how long the return will last and how long the war, so as not to endanger fiscal stability. But if he didn't come back, there shouldn't be any dilemma about it. We have also proposed a special law, which in the meantime the pensioner's union "Independence" supported... (President: colleague, don't talk about the other law that you have proposed. You can talk about your amendment, not the other law. ) That's right, I'm talking about an amendment that we suggest that the suspension of the provisional law on how pensions are paid is regulated by the adoption of a special law. Is the amendment... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44438	My friend, the subject is an amendment. So, your amendment reads this: “Article 53 of Article 1 adds the new position 2 which reads – the reduction of pensions made in accordance with the position of the 1st member, to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which will be regulated in accordance with the special law. “ There is the end of the story. And to advertise unions through amendments – no. You can't explain a special law. That law is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44439	If I may continue on the amendment. I propose that the law prescribe the adoption of a special law that will regulate the payment of all these reductions that pensioners have had over the past four years. In order to discuss the acceptability of my amendment, which suggests a special law, I think it is useful to hear what is the possible model which, by this special law, could prescribe the return of pensioners to unpaid parts of pensions. So what I'm trying to say is, according to the amendment, and I respect that now it's really late and I respect that the ruling majority intends to end the session soon, and I really won't owe it, I'll just say two sentences, if you'll allow me, and thank you in advance for that. We have proposed a model to return it through bonds with five years of maturity, so that it is declared public debt, and we can suggest and discuss that it is not something that will increase public debt, but that pensioners at the height of these claims are given, for example, ENP actions, thereby raising the market of securities of value, increasing traffic. So much for me for now. I'd like to hear from the minister a brief answer, so we don't owe the debate, because it's really late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44440	The 5rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, added after article 53, was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment as incomplete. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. The amendment added to Article 53b after article 53b was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment as incomplete. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Members of the SDS parliamentary group submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Martinovic and Ivan Bauer. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and APPLICATION OF THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament, as well as by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS group. Does anyone want a word? (No) It shall be subject to Article 8 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44441	Just to inform the National Assembly that the Committee on Education has been discussed on this amendment, and it has been adopted. I have given consent, however, for some technical reasons, it is not recorded, and I am obliged to publicly repeat here that I am in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-09-28-0.u44442	I find that, on the basis of the acceptance of the proposing's authorised representative, this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marina Ristic and the MPs of the SDS together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) LJupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nenad Bozic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, MP Momcilo Mandic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs, Aleksandra Belačić, and the MPs of the SDS, together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs LJupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and the MPs of the SDS and the MPs of the DS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a PROFESSION OF A SPECIAL INTEREST FOR THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND TERMS FOR THEIR PROFESSION You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet and Aleksandra Belačić and joint MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Aleksandar Seselj and the MPs of the Parliament group, together, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ruzica Nikolic and Filip Stojanovic, together with the MPs of the Parliament group, submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sreto Peric and Momcilo Mandić and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marina Ristic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic and the MPs of the Parliament group of Members of the Association of Independent Members submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nemanja Sarović and Dubravko Bojic and the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs, submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zoran Despotović and Miljan Damjanovic and the MPs of the Parliament group, together, submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milorad Mirčić and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and the joint MPs of the Parliament group, together, submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Petar Jojic, Bozidar Delic and the MPs of the Parliament group, together, submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Nikola Savic and Tomislav LJubenović and the MPs of the Parliament group, together with the MPs, submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, September 29th, 2018, starting at 10.00pm, as the day for voting on points 1, 2, 3rd and 4th of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We'd be done with this and we'd move on tomorrow.
