ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33489	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 138 MPs are present in the hall. I have been informed that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Maja Vidinovic. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 20 of the agenda. I put it to a vote -- a bill on the planned system of the Republic of Serbia in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the Amendment Law, a Member of the Verica Radeta submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. At the title of the Amendment Act, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted to the bill by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. On the basis of the proposal for a law, the amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The amendment was submitted to the bill by Ambassador Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Verica Radeta and the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. On Article 1 of the amendment, a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Bulatovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Sonja Vlahović submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare four against them. There is no one with abstentions. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 12, against – there is no one with abstentions. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 18, against – there is no one with abstentions. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MEP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare it – 13 against – there is no one with abstentions. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare it – 16, against – no one with abstentions is present. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Member Stanislav Janosevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 19, against – there is no one with abstentions. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Veljkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare it – 11 against – there is no one with abstentions. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Stanija Kompirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 19, against – there is no one with abstentions. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. An MP named Milena Turk submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare it – 18, against – no one, abstentioned – one. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare it – 21 against – there is no one with abstentions. No amendment accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. No amendment accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jelana Mijatovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 28, against – 28. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33490	I am concluding the vote and I am telling you: no one, with abstentions, voted 122 MPs for – 19 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 134 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14, against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for seven. 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 120 MPs for – 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted for 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, who is abstentioned, voted for—13, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 114 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 25. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 12, no one, 129 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for – 16 against - 125 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 119 MPs for – 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 119 MPs for – 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Jancic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 118 MPs for – 23. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 116 MPs for – 25. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not been voted by 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 119 MPs for – 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Cokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 117 for – 24, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 118 for – 23. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 118 for – 23. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 130 for – 11, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 132. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Desanka Repac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has voted 138. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Pekarski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – no one with abstention – has voted 133. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 25, against – no one with abstention – has voted 117. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 129 for – 13, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jasmina Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstention – has voted 126. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 131 for – 11, against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that – 15, against – no one with abstention – has voted 127. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 122. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one with abstention – has voted 136. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 130. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one with abstention – has voted 124. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one with abstention – has voted 135. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has voted 134. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstention – has voted 125. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – there is no one who voted 139. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 119. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted 128. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 140. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – four against – 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 134 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for – four against – 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Jovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 136 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has voted for - two against - 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Aleksandra Majkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 131 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 133 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 131 MPs for – 10. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 133 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, ever voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted for – two – 138 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanija Compirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 130 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Petkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 138 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 130 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 138 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 130 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 126 MPs for – 15. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned—no one voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 138 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, ever voted 137 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, LJibuška Lakatoš, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 135 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 134 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 133 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 133 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 131 MPs for – 10. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vera Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MP of the People's Republic of Serbia, Slav Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them. 134 Messengers have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 12, no one, 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted for one of the 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for five, who has not been voted by 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for six, and there is no one who has voted 135 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for five, who has not been voted by 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against—no one, the abstentioned—one, voted 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Milekic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one who is abstentioned has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 12, no one, 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted for – 16 against - 125 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 116 MPs for – 24. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Olivera Ognjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstentions has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one with abstentions has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, none of the abstentions voted 130 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Maja Macužic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for seven against them. 134 Messengers have not voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, none of the abstentioned ones voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, the abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions - one, voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dalibor Radcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 12, no one, 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -23, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 117 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragana Kostic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 119 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not been voted by 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dusica Stojkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not been voted by 132 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 14, no one, not 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 against 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for three against them. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 against 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Maletic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for—seven against—134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 11 against 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted for – two – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for five, who has not been voted by 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine, and 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine, and 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Bojan Torbica, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six, against one, who has not been voted by 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: nine, against one, none, abstentioned, voted 129 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight, and there is no one to vote against. 131 was not a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for—seven against—132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 122 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 111 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the title above Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for—the fifth, the 134 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing and for one thing there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted for 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Neka Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one who voted 126 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Manojlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 121 MPs for – 17 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 118 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, the abstentioned, voted 126 MPs for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine, and 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 121 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 120 MPs for – 19 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 118 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 131 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, who is abstentioned, voted for—13, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 120 MPs for – 22. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 14, no one, not 126 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, and 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 126 MPs for – 14, against – one abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 12, no one, 129 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for seven, none of the messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 132 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 132 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Savkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for – 13, for – 13 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for seven, none of the messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Milovan Dracun, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Borka Grubor submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for five, who has not been voted by 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 131 MPs for – 10. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I find that no one has joined the vote. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—15, voted 118 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 113 MPs for – 24. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 117 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 3rd Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one who has voted for 128 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 119 for – 21 against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 126. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Prof. Marko Atlagic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, abstention – one, against – no one voted 132. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstention – one, voted 128. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, abstention – one, against – no one voted 128. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, abstention – one, against – no one voted 125. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Dusko Tarbuk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 125. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one with abstention – has voted 130. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, abstention – one. No one voted 120. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the People's Parliament, Marko Zelig, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 129. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: yes – 12, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 127. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 124. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Mr Igor Becic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 4, abstention – one, against – no one voted 134. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, abstention – one, against – no one voted 124. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic.. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—17, against—no one. abstentions – no,, did not vote 122. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 116 for – 23. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 118 for – 21 against. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, abstention – one, against - no one voted 118. I understand the amendment has not been accepted. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 123 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Dusica Stojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 127 MPs. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 28, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 110 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 125 MPs. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 132 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 123 MPs. The People's MP, Snezana Petrovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 124 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Dr Desanka Repac, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 131 MPs. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 132 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Vesna Markovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 130 MPs. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 10. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 133 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 129 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 133 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Mirko Krlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted for 130 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Popovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 125 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, the People's MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 121 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 121 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Dr Milan Knezevic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 10. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—seven, against—one, the abstentioned—there is no vote of 130 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for –13, against – one, the abstentioned – there is no vote of 124 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Nikolic to the 3rd amendment, and I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, with abstentions, voted 125 MPs for – 13 against. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 135 MPs. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 131 people's messengers. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 132 MPs for seven. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, not one, against the abstentioned ones, who has not voted 138 Members of the people. I understand the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 120 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Slavisa Bulatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Manojlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 14, for – 125 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 122 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine, and 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 133 MPs for – five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Majkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 120 MPs for – 18. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 128 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP doc. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 120 MPs for – 19 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Mitrovica submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight, and there is no one to vote against. 131 was not a Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 119 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Tanja Tomasevic Damnjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 122 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by the MP general, Prof. Zoran Dragisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions for four people. 135 MPs did not vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Stanislav Janosevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 118 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 128 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stanija Compirovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Petkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 127 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 120 MPs for – 18. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 21 against – 116 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dr Svetlana Nikolic Pavlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 119 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Jelena Mijatovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 135 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 126 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the MP LJibuška Lakatoš. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The National MP Milosav Milojevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 126 MPs for – 10 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Goran Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Karadzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has not voted 132 people's messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr. Vlado Babic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 15, against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted 121 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Vera Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—nine against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Savkic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—nine against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Dracun. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted for – two against – 134 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Borka Grubor. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 119 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—nine against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for—five, no one, 131, was a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Milekic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, three, against them, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 133 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 117 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 109 MPs for – 27. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Tiana Davidovac submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—16 against—no one who has been abstaining—no one has voted for 120 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Ognjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha St. Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 114 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Veroljub Matic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Professor Marko Atlagic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 10, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted for 125 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Radovan Jancic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 116 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusko Tarbuk. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Maja Macužic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Zelig. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Radoslav Cokic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Mr Igor Becic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 129 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who has voted 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dalibor Radcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one who has voted 119 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Čaapić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 111 MPs for – 24. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Kostic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 15, against – 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 115 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 111 MPs for – 24. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 123 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 114 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, nor has there ever been a vote of 126 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovica Jevtic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Snezana Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 122 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Desanka Repac, submitted to the 4th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Pekarski submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for—seven against—128 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Ognjen Pantovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs for – 14 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Maletic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Jasmina Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Sandra Christmas. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—nine against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 127 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Krlic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Branko Popovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 120 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, the MP received. Dr Branimir Rancic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 118 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 104 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Milan Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Torbica. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 131 was not voted by the Messenger of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, for nine, who has not voted for 128 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Ivana Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 124 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, voted 122 MPs for – 15. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who is eight, who has not been voted by 129 Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 117 MPs for – 20 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the members and members of the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic have tabled an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 13, 17, 19, 27 and 28. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, has voted for 136 of the Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33491	National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members and members of the 15th Amendment were together submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic – Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the title above the members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radet and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted the amendment to Article 17. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs from the Parliament group, the Independent Members' Club, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Zoran Krasic submitted the 21st Amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radet and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 22nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 23 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 24, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 25, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 25, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 28 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 29 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and Article 30 of the amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Natasa Jovanovic put together the title above the members and the 31st amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 31, which was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 33 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 34, which were tabled by four MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Momcilo Mandić and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 34, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Vjerica Rade put together the title above members and members of the 35th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 35, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 36 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 36, which were tabled by four MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 37 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 38 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 38, which were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 39 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 40th vote by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 42, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 43 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 43, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 44 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 45, which were tabled by four Members of the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote, which were tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party-The People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 46 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 47 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 48 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 49, which were submitted in the same text by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 52 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 52, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Filip Stojanovic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53, which were tabled by five MPs from the Social Democratic Party-The People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 54, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party-National Party Group. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 55 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33492	The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on the Serbian plan system, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the planning system of the Republic of Serbia. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for— 135, against—no one, the abstentioned—one, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and the joint MPs Ružica Nikolic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 15th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Petar Jojic and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Dubravko Bojic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. On the 20th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Ružica Nikolic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Sreto Peric and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Marina Ristic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – there is no one, with abstentions. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav Ljubenović and Marina Ristic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Momcilo Mandic and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven, against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law supplementing the Accounting Act. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Revision Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – ten, against – none. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Dubravko Bojic and Ruzica Nikolic together. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vjerica Radet and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Revision Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the bill of law in general has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the factoring law, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and together by Petar Jojic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. On the second amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandar Seselj and Verica Radeta. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Bauer, Predrag Jelenkovic and Jasmina Karanac. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and together Momcilo Mandic, Marina Ristic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment law and amendments of the factoring law in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by a single MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the factoring law. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on gambling, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. The MPs Alexander Seselj and Aleksandra Belačić submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. The SDS parliamentary group, NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, together Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic and together by Nemanja Sarović and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Miljan Damjanovic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment law and amendments of the law on gambling, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the law on gambling. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33493	I am putting amendments to article 1 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Miljan Damjanović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to Article 2 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandar Seselj and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 4, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Milorad Mircic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 4 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 5, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6 of the amendment together with the MPs Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 6 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 7 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Tomislav LJubenović and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 8 together by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 9 tabled in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Sreto Peric and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 11 which were tabled in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Ruzica Nikolic and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 12, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Dubravko Bojic and Momcilo Mandic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 which were tabled in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Milorad Mircic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 14 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarovic and Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 15, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 17, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Momcilo Mandic and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 17th vote, which was tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to article 18, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Sreto Peric and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 19, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Milorad Mircic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 21, which were tabled in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Filip Stojanovic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 22, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Petar Jojic and Aleksandra Belačić. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 23, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Dubravko Bojic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 24 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 25, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Momcilo Mandic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 26, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Tomislav LJubenović and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 27, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 28 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 29, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Ljiljana Mihajlović and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 30, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Ružica Nikolic, Petar Jojic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 31, which were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 32, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Tomislav LJubenović, Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 33, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Ružica Nikolic, Petar Jojic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put amendments to article 34, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Sreto Peric, Nemanja Sarovic and Tomislav LJubenović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 35, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and Aleksandra Belacic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 38, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 39, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 40th vote tabled by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milorad Mircic and Ruzica Nikolic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 41, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Natasa Jovanovic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 42, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 43, which were submitted in the same text by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 44, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and by Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 45th, which were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Tomislav LJubenović and Petar Jojic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 46th article, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Aleksandra Belačić, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 47, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarović and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 48, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and by Milorad Mircic and Aleksandar Seselj together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 49, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Vesna Nikolic Vukalovic and Ljiljana Mihajlović. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 50th article, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the article 51, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and by Milorad Mircic and Tomislav LJubenović together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 52nd article, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Tomislav LJubenović and Dubravko Bojic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 53rd article, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Sreto Peric and Ruzica Nikolic together. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 54th article, which, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together Momcilo Mandic and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 55th vote, which were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and together by Nemanja Sarovic, Filip Stojanović and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 56 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 57th vote by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 58 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 59 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 60th vote tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 61, which was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 62 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 63rd vote tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 64 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 65, which was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 66, which was tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 67 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 68 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 69 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 71 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 72 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 73 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 74 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 75 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 76 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 77 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 78 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 79 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 80 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 81 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 82 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 83, which was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 84 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 85 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 86 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on amendments to Article 87 which have been tabled by five MPs of the SDS Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 88 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 89 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 90 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 91 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 92 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 93 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to article 93 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 94 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 95 tabled by MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-04-19-0.u33494	I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 96. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic to Article 98. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. I conclude the vote: for— 136, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted—two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Ružica Nikolic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The People's MPs Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Tomislav LJubenović and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandra Belačić and Marina Ristic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Miljan Damjanovic and Dubravko Bojic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Nemanja Sarovic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marko Djurisic and MPs Filip Stojanović and Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Milorad Mircic and Momcilo Mandic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Vesna Nilolic Vukajlović and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Marko Djurisic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. We're moving on to decision-making at point 10. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred by Serbia", Belgrade (Renewable Energy Project Kostolac – Windpark), as a whole. I conclude the vote: there is no vote – 137 against – one with abstention – for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sada, Banka Intez a.d. Belgrade, NBG banka Malta LTD, AIK Banka a.d. Nis and Unicredit banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 3. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: there is no vote – 137 against – one with abstention – for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have come to an agreement on the early entry into force of the law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Bank of Intez a.d. Belgrade, NBG Bank Malta LTD, AIK Banka a.d. Nis and Unicredit Banka Serbia a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Temporary Import, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the Niš-Dimitrovgrad Financial Contract, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee (Project of the Zemun Technical Passenger Station – Phase 1) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the validation of a multilateral convention for the application of measures aimed at preventing the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits to tax contracts, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 138 against. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia – The Programme for the Encouragement of Renewable Energy: Development of the Biomass Market in the Republic of Serbia (First Component), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – one, the abstentioned – there is no vote, not a single MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to a vote on motions for decisions for items 17 to 20 of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by a single MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly adopted the Proposal for a Decision and thus elected the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, let me congratulate the President, Vice-President and members of the Council on their election and wish them success in their work. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Securities Commission as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the organisation and operation of the National Assembly Service, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Sreto Peric, at a session on 11 April 2018, at 19 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I find that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 12 April 2018, at 13 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I'm closing the vote and I'm realizing that no one has joined the vote. I find that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 12 April 2018, at 15 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to injuries. 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if these members are injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 16 April 2018, at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I conclude the vote and I find that no one has joined the vote, and no injured Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 16 April 2018, at 18 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 18 April 2018, at 12 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this member's injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Thank you.
