ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35986	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, it is our obligation to establish the truth and the causal link between the brutal bombing of our country and the increase of malignant and other serious diseases, as well as congenital anomalies. I therefore welcome the proposal of the President of the National Assembly and the formation of this committee. On March 24, 1999, the power of arms surpassed the power of reason and no memory faded. They remind us and it is our duty to remove all suspicions and to make more prominent experts in co-operation with the newly formed commission to determine whether the increase in malignancies and other serious illnesses is related to the criminal bombing that has hit our innocent people. The armed attack on our country is an unprecedented crime, an attack on spiritual, cultural and material values, an attack on human dignity. It is certainly an event that we must remember and not forget the injustice that has fallen upon our Serbia. It is sad that this topic is used, a topic that should be sacred and unite us all, is used to serve and gain some cheap political points in the misfortunes of our people. No one in Serbia can accept that the bombs were a means of human communication, especially if they fell on the roofs of our homes, in the institutions we worked in, to the hospitals where we treated. I can't help but recall that flight of the "merciful angel" and the city that was decorated by the United Nations organization with two of the greatest recognitions of the town of my Kruševec's messenger of peace. The "merciful angel" ruthlessly destroyed bridges, homes, schools, hospitals, power lines. On the night between 11th and 12th April and 1999, NATO bombs fell on my Kruševac as well. They destroyed the facilities on October 14th of the city's heat plant, and the next days and nights fell to bridges on Rasina in Bivol, West Moravia in Jasica, but two missiles fell to green areas not far from my house in the Rasadnik village. Unfortunately, the victims took place several days later, on the last day of May when the Barbarian Bridge was hit and innocent civilians, including the priest, but also 14-year-old Sanja Milenkovic, an excellent elementary school student. A tragedy we cannot and must not forget. I don't get into every politician's right to represent the ideas he wants, but Serbian citizens deserve the commission to announce the results after the hard work. I hope that the more prominent experts and members of the committee proposed by this Parliament will work on it, because it is the duty of all of us. This will help us to report to the Italian Parliament and what we demand is truth and justice. On this occasion, I would also like to add that a confession by the refugees, the refugee women from Pristina really made an impression on me, and I hope you won't mind if I read briefly: "They drop bombs at a barracks in Pristina, shoot glass at the facility where I worked, the next one falls on "Jugopetrol", bowls smoke, my kids in kindergarten I have to work. Shipar's incursion into the facility, running away with a threat. An abandoned tube in my colleague's mouth. My children's crying. It's burning the school. He's killing my friend, my colleague's husband. The birth of their son who doesn't know about the father. Kidnapping my friend and my neighbor Dragan. His wife's crying. Little kids in wonder, no dad. You don't even know what happened today. He's killing my nephew, a 19-year-old boy. He's killing a home friend in the bombing of a MUP building. A burning house, a grandfather, a fatherland, and my son should have inherited it. Running away with nothing to do with three little kids. A lot of grief and misery. Now I'm crying, memories are as fresh as they were yesterday, and then uranium. Mother in torment let go of her soul, brother even harder. But I go on, lock my sorrow in the corner of my soul and live, live with my three angels. They have done great evil, and I hope the punishment will catch up with them." And that's why all we ask is truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35987	Thank you, colleague. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35988	The Honorable Chairman, this agenda item deserves special attention and should have been discussed here. And today, the consequences of the 1999 bombing don't exactly know how many missiles were fired, or what's the actual data, how much material damage. There's information that 2,500 people died, 1,031 of which are security personnel. According to some data, 31,000 missiles were fired, according to the NATO report, according to the SRJ Army, about 50,000, according to Russian sources around 90,000 missiles, etc. What I think should be said is that after 2001 officials of the Republic of Serbia have avoided raising the question of the terrible consequences of this bombing on the environment and on human health. So there was no political will, no support to put it on the agenda, and to record it exactly and see what it was about. Of course, due to internal political disagreements, etc., it was also going this way to blame the government that was headed by Serbia before 2000, which is, of course, not to say anything about it, because it certainly did a lot of good, and of course there were mistakes and it is not at all controversial. But this time, our majority of disagreements prevailed in favour of petty political needs, and we were unable to find a common denominator about the need to agree on what should be done at a given time, that it should be recorded, that a proper attitude should be taken towards such an act, etc. Here, this is one shot, and I hope he delivers the results. Without political support, we cannot come to what is the attention of both the world's public and of course our public. The bombing certainly affected the increase in the number of diseases, as the consequences of the bombing resulted in the release of carcinogenic agents, mutagenic agents, toxic agents, etc. of at least a dozen chemicals on the list of banned chemicals under the Stockholm Convention. Today, for example, we are talking about war poisons, which are also banned from the Convention, being used against Russian double spy Sergei Skripai, and of course we should condemn that too. The second question is who's behind it. It's very vague, etc. But if it deserves so much attention from the world's public and professional public in the world, then I guess it deserves what happened here in SR Yugoslavia in 1999, with such big and harmful consequences, etc. This speaks of hypocrisy and a monstrous way of resonating the world's power centers that shape caps and politics in that direction. What I want to point out is that some of the world's institutions, like the World Health Organization, are instrumentalized so that, for example, and it relatifies the impact of the bombing, or the impact of the poored uranium, which acts most harmfully over uranium dust. They're talking about being an example. Missiles enriched with uranium have such a shirt, such a body, that it corrodes after 500 years. There are a lot of missiles that didn't explode at a given time, but practice has actually shown that even after a year or two, we have such missiles corroding and liberating uranium dust that is very, very harmful. In fact, it tells of the fact that many world institutions are also in favour of what the centers of power are. The Socialist Party of Serbia naturally condemns all of this and is absolutely in favour of forming this commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35989	Thank you. The word is proposed, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35990	Thank you for your opportunity to engage in the discussion, I'm sorry I couldn't since the beginning, for my official absence, but I've been closely following the debate here in parliament. I would really like to thank all MPs who have seriously approached the discussion on the proposal to form a commission that would or will investigate the consequences of the 1999 bombing on the health of people in this country and the protection, i.e. the environmental effects in which we live. Dr Darko Laketic, an MP whom I propose to be president or chairman of the commission, which I hope parliament will adopt after adopting our decision and the formation of the commission, has indeed in a good and exhausted way, a quality, non-political yesterday explained the need to form this and this commission, with a very important goal – that this Parliament do what some European states have done, and that is to look for the truth of what the effects of people's lives in this country have left bombings since 1999. So I didn't realize myself what kind of a public avalanche the launch of this topic would cause, which clearly shows only one thing, that the citizens of our country were waiting for this act to be proposed and that someone in a serious way started to talk about this really big problem. When I say we're going to look for the truth, it doesn't mean, of course, what some people are trying to show in the public of Serbia, that this commission will look like a courtroom, that we're going to tell anyone the verdicts and that we're going to look for a way to tell the public of Serbia who's guilty. No, I don't. The goal is, therefore, to deal with something else, something much more serious and not to look like a courtroom and not to define ourselves politically who is in favour and who is against, or to investigate the circumstances why the NATO Pact states have bombed Yugoslavia in the first place. So this commission has to run away from politics and get involved in politics, why NATO's pact without a Security Council decision has even bombed our country. Many of us know that, most of our Serbian citizens know that. Let me refer to the discussions of more than 25 MPs before I possibly have some summation of these discussions. So our task is to escape politics and not to talk about whether the policy until 1999 was right or whether we are turning to the past and to talk about whether the aim of the bombing and the loss of the people of Yugoslavia and the consequences of the bombing today, both in terms of life and politics, was in fact the intention to declare the independence of a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia nine years later and to declare itself a new state on the European continent. So I ask you all together in this committee, whoever participates, to run away from such topics, because it will only help those who have prevented us or who will, of course, make it impossible for this commission to work. I must be aware of this, that the work that awaits MPs in this matter will not be easy, nor will it be easy, that there will be much resistance and that there will be many attempts to influence their work. I see that we have caused great interest not only among the citizens who send e-mails, offer their help, support, data they have, experts report, scientists, doctors, everything that comes to the e-mail of the Assembly will be directed to the Commission to consider the importance and relevance of these potential testimony and that for these people, the commission sees what data and documents they have and whether they can be used in our investigation process. The media are also very interested, I thank them for that because they have been silent for years, years and years, and they have realized that silence is once in some administrative procedures of approval, some time it is silence and fear that someone will warn you, so you must hide the topic from the citizens of Serbia, and I am glad that they are now encouraged to write about it, to organise shows, regardless of what often I must notice, try and reciprocate the work of this commission, to say in advance that MPs are not professional. Of course, our colleagues in the Italian Parliament are not experts in the area either, but in a great way they did their job after many years of working and relativated at all, let's say, and my attempt to suggest to you that we start dealing with such an important topic, asking what I do and what my professional references are. Here, it doesn't matter what I've done as a promoter, it's important that I am an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that I represent the citizens of this country here. As far as education is concerned, I don't even have to have primary education, it's important that I represent the people of the Republic of Serbia, and that's my answer to journalists who ask the public question who I am, what I am, and whether I have finished atomic physics to deal with these issues. No, I'm just a regular MP, which is what I want them to be -- people's journalists, at last. So, I said, really don't think about it when you decide to vote. You won't be wrong if you press the green button, because there's no citizen of this country who doesn't need the truth, whatever it is, which concerns their health and their children's health and, besides, the future way of life in this country. Of course, we have also drawn attention to many other citizens of Serbia, beyond the public of our country, as it is quite understandable, and their interest, because this is obviously a topic which has been a taboo topic for many years and which has been responsible for them to continue to be a taboo topic and not to speak publicly about the potential consequences and it is speaking in itself, because the third group of sectors that are now interested in forming this commission in advance is saying that there was no consequence, that there is no result and that the fact that we are bombed by missiles with poor uranium is actually something that is desired, which is healthy and that this is good for both human health and the environment. I don't want to argue with them, even though they're not atomic physicists, but they've finished some other colleges, or they've sent them something else, but each of us has a mission, and they should probably represent someone else, and we're only representing Serbia. So, I said that our commission is not designed as a courtroom, that it will not deal with any political circumstances, issues, and whether we are bombed because of the independence and self-proclaimed independence of one part of the Republic of Serbia, bombing in any case has no justification for anything, anywhere, not just Yugoslavia, but anywhere in the world. If someone is unable to solve the problem in another way, then really bombing any people and citizens is not a way and not using poor uranium simply a crime. The crime itself is an act of bombing anyone, Serbs and other states in the world who went before us and after us, the same hell that we went through together, but I say we're not dealing with the past, because then the commission won't be able to meet its goal, which is that in a serious way, through the testimony of people, through the collection of buildings, collecting evidence for, collecting evidence that we're talking about the the thesis that we've set up, and that we're going to be able to get the results of their work back in the tide by the end of 2020, and every few months as lawmakers. We really owe it to the citizens of this country without any politics. In public, as an advance reason against the formation of this commission, well, if we just have to form as a parliament some kind of committee on the investigation of these effects on human health, we use semi-information some or deliberately place some information that we have a UN report from 2001 and that we have to satisfy ourselves because, my God, that's what it's written. Here, I'll take the opportunity to be an MP and what can I say to you distinguished colleagues that this 2001 report is not exactly how those who call on him and who only use certain parts, which apparently correspond, I don't know from what interests, and these are the people who live in this country. They should be interested in the truth, not the truth. A report in general exists, and in all ways we will help the commission, Dr Darka Laketić, to obtain a genuine exhaustive 2001 UN report, not what has been published on several pages. It's a UN report from Senegal's Bakari Kante. That's his name. He was the head of the first mission to the UNEP. UNEP is a UN programme for the human environment. That's the translation. With us, it would be a program for environmental protection. His text, frankly, was never published by the UN because the report was fatal to a part of the international community that supported the bombing, or was involved in it and executed to be published in the UN, because the UN is not a group of several countries, but there are countries that know how to think about their heads and whose protection of the environment and human health really means a lot, regardless of whether bombed, killed by some nations living in the Western Balkans, Yugoslavia, who are obviously part of the international community is lower than the people, so he can be punished in this way, but what's good, when you get in and investigate in the media, is a brave, independent American journalist named Robert Parons, managed to get a report from the UN, Mr. Kante, and to publish in the Swiss newspaper "Couria" and to publish in "Diplomics", that has a whole sense of religion, which has been said in a great way, and in a single sense of history. That is why the report had to be removed, because we all know how sensitive EU member states are when it comes to the problem being passed on to them. There's a real report in the Nairobi headquarters of this organization. I hope no one had the courage and courage of political and diplomatic to completely destroy it, but if we can find Mr. Robert Parsons, I am convinced, as an independent journalist, that it is such an important report, based on which he made a serious article, and kept it. There is another report, run by the former Minister of Ecology of Finland. His report is also disastrous for those who claim that no influence whatsoever and no problem was there that we were bombed by certain missiles with poor uranium and, behold, miracles, the report was written on 72 pages. That, too, anyone who wants to get it, can investigate it without a problem, because it's no longer taboo topic anywhere. A 72-page report, where 70 pages were removed and under great pressure in the UN, found only two foreigners who were actually not saying anything. We also have a report from the Swiss group. So everything that's said always has two sides. It is up to us to try to get to the truth, see if there has been any impact after such a criminal bombing with the impoverished uranium on the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Yugoslavia and the citizens around our country. Now, you see, nature doesn't know about borders, so when there's a disaster in one country, other countries have problems, and what these reports have to say is that they have to be embellished and a good part of the malnutrient, hidden from the public, but it's impossible that nothing is happening to us. It's absolutely impossible, impossible that it's something healthy. That's really impossible. I can't agree with that, even though I'm not an atomic physicist, how I'm respected by some. Seventy-eight days we've been bombed, so we're bombed. A thousand and a hundred planes flew over us and threw out the various missiles. Thirty thousand missiles were dropped on then-Yugoslavia. Fifteen tons of impoverished uranium. So, experts, I'm not a lawyer, as an ordinary citizen of this country, calculated this. They say that 15 tons of poor uranium is enough to build close to 170 replicas of a nuclear bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima, 35 kilograms of uranium 235, that's their code, probably. The consequences were long-term and the consequences were inconclusive already in 2001, because the one who said in 2001 that it was good and healthy, it was obviously not a professional person, and not us who were looking for the truth. That's why we shouldn't even be panicking, and it's least necessary for anyone to completely unnecessarily relativize our attempt to get to the truth seriously, and we're all together, regardless of our political affiliations to support this proposal, to turn a blind eye to what we disagree most often, but we need to agree on these figures, because these figures are true and to come to the truth with common efforts and nothing more, but nothing less. I am pleased that today's vote after the comprehensive debate has been concluded, we will vote in favour of this proposal. I am convinced that this proposal will and will vote and allow colleagues to start working and to finally tell Serbian citizens what is true and whether we have consequences for our health and environmental pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35991	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35992	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, the end of the 20th century, will remember our people in 1999 by evil, unseen injustice. The world's greatest military forces brutally, in violation of the UN Charter, attacked a small European country. In those 78 hell days, we suffered terror of force. On June 10th, when the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement ended these foolish results were frightening. Several thousand dead and wounded and enormous material damage measured by tens of billions of dollars. The monasteries, churches, hospitals, schools, factories have been destroyed, so I don't count. These days, to remind you, Wesley Clark has received a high honor from Hashim Thaci for this work. I can't help but recall the words spoken by retired NATO general and military diplomat Biajo Di Gracia in an interview for a paper, I quote: "The bombing of the SRJ was an experimental war on NATO". Not to repeat what we already know, it was a crime without precedent in recent history. It was a cruel aggression on a small and sovereign European country. As a result, these people and this country, with great effort and renouncing, are slowly resuscitating. A new course of foreign policy, based on real facts, builds the foundations on which peace will be built and a better picture of the part of the world to which we belong. However, our sincere desire for peace and prosperity, for the better future of our people, but also for those peoples who live in our environment, must not and can't be a reason to close our eyes to the truth, to what are real and possible lasting consequences of this madness and injustice that has been done to us at the end of the past century. We must not remain silent because of us and our descendants. We can't keep our mouths shut because of the victims. We must not remain silent for the sake of truth and justice, nor must we keep silent because of those who have too much force and who may become accustomed to gently draw the sword to the small and powerless. So, by doing this, by forming a parliamentary commission that objectively, with respect for the highest scientific and professional standards, will explore those possible long-term effects of NATO aggression on human health and the natural environment. Among other things, we also contribute to building fairer and better relations between peoples and countries in the world, affirming the once-in-a-lifetime international law. The reasons that lead us to support both the establishment and the work of a commission like this, I'd put it in several categories. The first category is certainly moral and ethical reasons, which stem from our responsibility to the truth, according to present and future generations. I've talked about them before. Another category of reasons I would call the scientific and professional reasons, which stem from our knowledge of the possible devastating and long-term impact of the use of dangerous substances in order to achieve war goals, as well as the use of poor uranium, which unfortunately we have been exposed to for 78 days. As a doctor and as a man who has spent decades researching carcinogenic factors, factors affecting the development and development of malignant diseases, I rightly testify that there is clear scientific-verified evidence that radioactive matter, their chemical products, can be caused by malignant transformation of cells and tissues. Also, I rightly claim that they can affect our genetic code, on a biological basis. So they can cause dangerous mutations within the core of our cells, which, of course, are caused by the development of dangerous diseases. In particular, the changes that occur in reproductive cells are dangerous. In this way these dangerous diseases and malformations can be transmitted from one generation to another. So, and the knowledge that we've learned from science and knowledge that we've received from research into the war in the Persian Gulf, which has also been used by this kind of ammunition and knowledge that we've received from Italian colleagues, who have proven the relationship between the disease of their soldiers and their stay in the Gulf of Persia during the war, as well as the indicators that give us statistical research on the frequency of certain diseases, particularly malignant, with the right as a people, as doctors, as representatives of the people in this high home, we're asking the question -- is there a link between the increase in the number of patients, particularly the malignancies, between the increase in the number of sterile marriages, between the increase in the number of birth of children with congenital anomalies etc, and the fact that during the aggression we've been exposed to dangerous substances? The king, the city where I was born and lived, also suffered great destruction. So far, as a doctor, I've examined tens of thousands of people. I didn't do research to argue, but the general impression is that there has been a significant increase in the number of malignancies, a growing number of young couples who can't have offspring, a growing number of autoimmune diseases, is an increasing number of so-called "marriage couples". non-specific allergies, an increasing number of young people with impaired liver function, kidney function and so on. One family in my area in just a few years after the eight-member bombing lost half. So four died of malignancies. The remaining half of this honest family rightly expects an answer, rightly expects the truth, as well as a multitude of other families with similar fates in Serbia. The third group of reasons, also an important category for which we need to approach research, is political and legal. Of course, we can't prejudge anything until we get the results of the research that this committee is about to do. Based on the relevant facts that we hope to come to, our country, our institutions, our political leaders and representatives will be able to take a clear position on this important national issue and will clearly lead politics in a way that never again does this kind of tragedy happen to us, that the consequences are resolved as soon as possible and in the most efficient way possible. Personally, I think that we must all, within the limits of our abilities, engage in this national business of extraordinary importance. There should be no political, national, religious or any other division here. The path to truth would have to be a sacred goal for everyone. I propose to the Commission that, except that in the work, I believe, people of science and profession, the best we have in Serbia, will certainly benefit from the data that we can easily obtain from regional oncological dispensaries in Serbia and by crossing their findings with data on the most powerful ammunition facts with the impoverished uranium, we can easily reach significant indicators, i.e. so on. Qualified probabilities. I believe that we have come to such a question when it is necessary and necessary to be reasonable, rational, unique, and honest in seeking answers. Therefore, full support for the proposal from the President of the National Assembly, full support from counterpart Laketić as future president of this committee, full support for the members of the Commission and all those who will make an effort to come to the results that we and our citizens, our public, international public and international institutions will be able to believe. Unfortunately, as General de Biajaj said, this was a NATO experiment. This commission, unfortunately, is sad that I have to say, needs to figure out what these are the results of a terrifying experiment in vivo, that is, over living people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35993	Thanks, buddy. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35994	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to talk a little different today. I'll be a little personal, I'll be emotional, I'll talk like a man who got leukemia in 2010. Many discussions struck me yesterday and gave me motive to speak the way I didn't want to speak, especially the discussion that had facts and propaganda for the flossula. Here, I'm a fact and I'm propaganda, alive. I'm not gonna say that I got sick, that I got leukemia because of the NATO Pact intervention, and maybe I did. That's why I want everyone else to know the truth. I won't have any of it, but there will be many others. Some who were with me from my town, who mentioned counterpart Rada Jovic, Kraljevo, at the same time and in 2010, were lying at the Institute, now at the Leukemia Diseases Clinic. Unfortunately, they were young people, I was the oldest there. In the same period of 30 patients, five were from the Kings, four girls and me. None of them survived. I've had some crazy luck, and maybe an accident to survive and talk about some things here. Probably, and someone mentioned it, it's a fact, a rich guy, and it's a fact. In 1999, Bogutovac, where there was a warehouse of the then Beopetrol, oil, gasoline, was bombed. This is where the Ibar River flows, which runs today through KIM. Everything and everything came along that river. There's a bombed warehouse in Ratina, also ammunition, in Mrsac, back in Bogatovac. Did that affect? It probably is. Yesterday I was listening to a speech from a colleague, a young colleague from Triestenik, who tried everything and everything to justify something that was not justified, and no one here judges NATO aggression. We're talking about consequences here, and we need to talk about consequences. Why isn't the state responding? Why isn't it working? For what? Education? Yeah. We can instruct our people to pay much more attention to their health, to go to the doctor regularly. Who's gonna prevent it from working against leukemia? Does a young colleague know what the symptoms are? I've had one great fortune. Maybe it's not luck, maybe it's something from above. My sister's a hematologist and we organized a donor night, she watched a TV show and saw me. She told her son-in-law - take him to the doctor tomorrow, something's wrong with him. She saw it from the color of her face. If I hadn't gone, I probably would have died too, I wouldn't have been able to say this and everyone would have said – God, dear, a young man died. Usually with Serbs when someone dies, and you don't know what died – the heart, died from the heart. No, leukemia is such a disease, insidious, where you have something that happens to everyone – night sweats, nightmares, tiredness and mild fever. Let's not talk about it by heart. Let's leave it to those who are experts to talk about professional stuff, to talk about what it is. The first finding and my first thought to connect the bombing to the disease that touched me and with which I fought was the medical finding here at our clinic. Mr. Bojanic, what have you been doing all your life? My whole life? Luckily for me, I was a man who worked at the office, I didn't have a hard job, I wasn't a miner, I wasn't at a gas station, I wasn't on the ground. He says, do you know that your organism is broken, your chromosomes, I only knew about chromosomes that male, female, x, ipslon, are torn apart, your formula doesn't exist, you're a man who's been sleeping on a nuclear reactor for 20 years. From what? Is it office business or was I somewhere in the field? Yes, in the bombings around the Kings, I was always present wherever the bomb went down, but I don't believe that was the reason. In the family, in three generations, no one has ever suffered from such diseases. What made me a special impression, the first question I was in Italy, because I was being treated in Italy, and I received healing in Italy, from intervention doctors was – Mr. Bojanić, how far away is Kraljevo from KIM? It was their first question and their first finding. That's what the doctors said, they didn't say politicians. It's all this that drives me to deal with these issues, not as a national MP, but as a man who wants to help, because this bombing and all those diseases that the bombing caused, if it caused it, not only will it impoverish the state, because these are expensive diseases, incurable, but most of all economically destroy families. What's worse, all those kids who are lucky as I am to be cured if they're being treated for leukemia. All these young people, and I in the King know a lot of young people who at this time are 15-16 years old and are in Padua or I don't know where in Italy, to finish their treatment that started in Serbia, if they are transplanted, they will be irradiated, but their whole body will be irradiated. What does that mean? That means, a man who fights tumors in a certain place on his body, only that part is radiationd to him. Everyone who suffers from leukemia is irradiated by an entire organism. Unfortunately, these people will never have children of their own, they won't act as parents. Isn't that a tragedy? A lot of evil has done this bombing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35995	Thank you very much, fellow Bojanic. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35996	Dear colleagues and colleagues, whenever it comes to the criminal aggression of the NATO Pact and the 19 strongest countries of the world against Serbia, I think of an episode for the protests of our citizens in London in 1999, where an English woman and her daughter came from one of the organizers and addressed him, she says – please explain to me exactly what is going on in your country, because I don't think it's all the way our television shows up. He asked her confusedly – what is the problem? And she answered, and I was confused by the conversation with my daughter five minutes ago, and she asked me, "Why are the Serbs bombing?" I told her because they're evil. And my daughter said nothing but that, so if they are evil, why do they not bomb us? I am constantly followed by the thought of this child who was most likely about a dozen years old, but has shown that he is much wiser, smarter and more mature than any general, politician and others who have participated in the preparation of the bombing against Serbia. We are the Serbs of a strange people, ready to forget everything, ready to forgive everything, and when someone comes to us in these conversations and says, well, a man must never lose his human dignity in himself. I wonder if I'm the only man, are people just Serbs and citizens of Serbia, isn't this other side representing people, too, shouldn't the other side have dignity? Does it have the right to destroy our soul, to break our heart to tread us as if we were a common cloth, and we need to laugh, to forgive them, to be dignified and to say, "Steal our hearts still, destroy us, we will be happy." So when they say to me, "Forgive me and have nothing to forgive," I wonder if I alone am condemned, if only Serbia is condemned, Serbian citizens forgive their evildoers and rejoice whenever they see them and think of them. However, no matter what, like most Serbian citizens, I wonder if what they tell us is true when they tell us that this crime they committed to the Serbian people is not exactly like that, that this poor uranium is not poisoned, when they recommend us as some you know that children brush their teeth with it, and I'm trying to force now, let's think hard, the truth is the most important thing is whether it's all that, and then I tell myself, well, NATO is a defense organization, so they say and then I go through the books, watch the Internet to see who attacked NATO, who when it attacked America and who they defended. If they're a defense organization, well, why are they meeting bombs on all sides of the world, why are they in Serbia, why are they in Syria, Libya, Egypt, Iran and Iraq? What is this defense organization that destroys the most beautiful and most powerful liquids a man has created? Someone once said by praising the EU to the EU in 2012. In the year, it seems to me, she won the Nobel Peace Prize and I asked the public, well, weren't they ashamed to receive that award, wasn't it uncomfortable for them? Nineteen NATO-led countries bombed in 1999. For years, Serbia for no reason. Then how can they get the Nobel Peace Prize? But we're Serbs weird, and we'll forget this. But they should always answer the words of our patriarch – we can forgive, but we must not forget. As for the formation of this commission, I hope that she will do the job that we are talking about here today and I believe that it would be an honor, a pleasure, but also a responsibility and a responsibility to be a member of this committee. I am sure that fellow Laketić will put together the commission as it should appear, to be composed of professional people, the most frequent and the most moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35997	Thank you. The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska. She's not present. The word is Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35998	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this time I would like to express my support for the proposal by the president of the National Assembly to form a commission to investigate the consequences of the 1999 NATO bombing. It is devastating that yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from individual fellow MPs during the debate, who are aimed at purely daily political purposes. It is unserious, irresponsible and sad to listen to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is sad to hear it from families whose members lost their lives during the attack and citizens whose family members face the most severe forms of disease, wondering if it is precisely the cause of this fatal situation in 1999. During the bombing, I was under the age of 10, and you know, from March 24 to June 10, 1999, in those 78 days, I was just afraid if we were going to survive. Today, by looking at statistics, I realize the scale of this disgusting attack on our country, the consequences we face, and the future of our country. In those 78 days, many factories, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes, roads, railways were destroyed. A huge material damage has been done and it's all a far smaller problem, but statistics on the number of victims cannot be restored, built, revived, like all that has been destroyed. So I ask myself, and I expect the commission to respond to the data that is talking about the growing number of people with malignancies, about the growing number of sterilities in young couples, about the growing number, unfortunately and mentally ill people. The question is what are the consequences, how did all this affect them? It is therefore important to establish a causal link between this catastrophic attack on our country and this increase in the number of people affected. Especially because of the use of a missile with an impoverished uranium. It is absolutely certain that doctors and experts agree that the presence of uranium unfortunately results in an increasing number of children suffering from cancer, children whose parents are my age. In front of the commission, it is a huge task, but I am sure that dedicated work led by counterpart Darko Laketic, respecting the profession, respecting science, respecting the work of relevant institutions and with the support of the Serbian government, will come before Serbian citizens with a report that Serbian citizens deserve, which will remove the doubt, which will give answers, which will give the truth to our country. It is very important for the future of our country and for the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u35999	Thank you, colleague. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not there. Next up is Professor Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36000	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, one serious and comprehensive survey on Serbia's NATO bombing in 1999 would show that certain Western countries, headed by the United States, have long worked to break Yugoslavia and have had a crucial impact on the 1991 and 1995 warfire. The honourable MPs, the West headed by the United States, broke the fall of Milosevic to Serbia, but not the spirit of the Serb people. From Yugoslavia he created a banana republic, which carried out to the point, under former Dossmanli rule, all that they asked of them. The bombing of SRJ in 1999, under the dictation of the so-called The international community, the former Dossman regime, has sold out the country into debauchery, as well as the humiliation of the entire people, who, by their own wonders, are then politicians in power, forced to accept their own demonization done by the West as the truth. That takeover so-called. His crimes were confirmed by the former regime's authorities by handovering a number of persons, particularly Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, by the former ruling team, who, as Hegel would say, have quoted "taken over the identity of their masters, so they competed for a handful of dollars in the defilement of their people and their own country". The United States and NATO alliances used, respected citizens and MPs, a tried recipe on SRJ and Serbia, the 1999 bombing. Pay attention, we were first demonized as a nation, then we were subjected to sanctions of hunger, and then bombed. Then they sent us those so-called. The neutral humanitarians, sociologists, psychologists, defecologists, philosophers and such our domestic charlatans, and some of them today are MPs, sitting in benches, interrogating men, women, children, sick and healthy as they submit missiles with the impoverished uranium and other monsters that came upon us at the time. During the bombing of Serbia, especially its southern provinces of KIM, ammunition was also used with impoverished uranium. It poses a great danger to the human health of all those who live on KIM, as well as in Serbia, as well as to those who carry out a peace mission on it, but also to our descendants. Among the sick population in KIM is the pandemic of cancer, leukemia, and other dangerous diseases that destroy them. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the complete Albanian people in KIM were sacrificed alongside Serbs in KIM in 1999. To throw impoverished uranium at the population of KIM, it's a terrible crime. If there's plutonium in it, it's ten times the crime. Only allow for a few details. Yesterday, we crossed some data here, NATO itself says that it dropped 30,000 missiles with poor uranium on SRJ, the Yugoslav Army is data of 50,000 missiles, and Russian experts from 70,000 to 90,000, which I think is even more important, and I'm going towards the weight of General Delic, who said that the commission is likely to present the real truth in the future. The impoverished uranium was the first time we said it was used in Vietnam, then in the Gulf war in 1991, Republika Srpska 1995, Afghanistan in 2001, Iraq in 2003 and 1999 in Serbia, especially in the southern Serbian province. Dear Vice President, in the Gulf War, 80,000 soldiers who participated show symptoms similar to radiation disease. That's where 99,000 grains were dropped. The symptoms of their disease range from weakness of the immune system of leukemia, cancers of various species, birth of children with defects. This data, Your Honor, is known to the US Ambassador Kyle Scott, I'm sure, because I know he read a magazine that says this. Dear People's MPs, just one milligram of impoverished uranium in the organism, is enough to stop the work of the kidneys. Yesterday we were talking about soldiers, Italian soldiers in KIM, my data that I've been dealing with for a while say that 25% of them got cancer, and 15% of their children are born with genetic anomalies. That's the information I had and did for a while from 2010. It's probably different now, as you know. For the first time in history, NATO has repeatedly used new funds called the SRJ by aggression. soft, or graphite bombs. Dear People's MPs, the war in the Gulf in 1991 was a NATO experiment. The operation of a new murder weapon with an impoverished uranium. The bombing of the SRJ in 1991, its confirmation, and the last attack of the United States on Iraq's bestial weapons experience whose consequences are known, I believe that these data are also known to American scientists because I am as a man of scientific facts, informed that one piece of scientists is indeed familiar. Dear People's MPs, it is shameless to equate the work of those who defend their country and territorial integrity with those who want to destroy it. It must never be lost in the sight of Serbs on KIM as other victims, and that the other NATO bombers were also pushing for large Albania and helping KLA terrorists. The Serbs have been exiled, chicanated, killed, and bombed in crime all along. In the end, let different Kandic, Vasic, Filipović, Pavlovic, Jovanovic, Canci, Milic, Biserkovic and others be asked, whose justice they represent. Remember the mass crimes that their masters committed in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Latin America, and Serbia in 1999 where they knowingly killed millions of civilians. I ask the question, honourable citizens of you and the MPs -- did the Serbs ever create a concentration camp for Albanians living in the area of Serbia because of the crime of the KIM terrorists? Answer yourself. At the end of the day, I end up with a quote from Hamlet, quoting: “Elem sir, they have committed false news, and on top of that they have countered false statements. Secondly, they carried out slanders, sixth and last, verifying incorrect conditions and in the end, they are liars and liars," finished the quote. We support the work of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36001	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word is Anna Stevanović. She's not present. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36002	In 1999, NATO bombs fell to our country and innocent people, which is a civilized crime without precedent. NATO has done enormous damage to the Republic of Serbia for months, in addition to irreparable human casualties, including innocent civilians, children, women, old and sick, and major material damage, the common force has done great harm to our people's health. A large number of people who have had mental health problems due to the stress they suffer, and some of them today still have lasting consequences, which inevitably affects the quality of their lives. NATO bombs enriched our country with impoverished uranium and other toxins, and today Serbia's population is still intoxicated by the health of dangerous agents. Missiles with impoverished uranium will continue to be harmful to our people's health in the future, because we know how long it takes for a dirty uranium to disappear from our environment. The effects of NATO bombings in Serbia in 1999 on human health are particularly reflected in the enormous increase in the number of malignancies. That is why Serbia is determined to seriously investigate the consequences of NATO bombings on citizens' health, in order to really determine the truth. Dirty uranium, as we heard, was dumped in 113 places, we breathed both nitrogen and dioxins and heavy metals and other high-toxic agents, and no one knew about it, nor did anyone keep us informed at that time. About 25,000 houses and buildings were destroyed and damaged. It destroyed 470km of roads and about 600km of railway, 60% of the targets targeted were civilian and 113 localities in southern central Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija were bombed with poor uranium. Also, my city of Nis was bombed and bombed by tape bombs on May 7, 1999, with a large number of innocent civilians killed, including a 20-year-old pregnant woman in an advanced pregnancy, and the number of injured was far greater. They bombed the city center, the wider city center, the bus station, the city market, the stone bridge, even tossing bombs of tape and the building of pathology within the Clinical Center in Nis. Also, the destruction of oil warehouses has led to the release of huge amounts of carbon dioxide, but special groups of high-cancerogenic compounds that represent polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, also targeted the Jugopetrol oil warehouse in Nis. From 2002 to 2005, there were 32,000 people registered with malignancies, and by 2009, the number increased by 8,500. Mortality is increasing by 5,500. By 2014, nearly 40,000 newly ill malignancies were registered. From 2002 to 2005, the average number of leukemia was 800 a year, between 2006 and 2009. Leukemia mortality is increasing by 139%. Statistics say the world average of people with malignant diseases is 2,000 per million, in Serbia the number of 5,500 thousand per million population is as much as 2.7 times the world average. Frequency rate, i.e. Newly ill, it grows unfortunately by 2% every year, while it grew by 0.6% in the world. The world's greatest knowledge of the harmfulness of the impoverished uranium is based on the disturbed health of fighters in the Gulf War and wars in the Balkans. There are a large number of published research studies dealing with Balkan syndrome and the impact of poored uranium on the health of soldiers who were in the Balkans at the time of NATO's wartime actions, as well as on civilian health. I'll just mention some of the studies that were done. At the Institute of Physiology of the University of Nebraska in America, the study took place in 2006. The University of Bremen in Germany, the Institute of Social Medicine, Epidemiology and Prevention of Bremen and the Centre for the impoverished Uranium Berlin in the German study is from November 2002. Isotopes Laboratory, Department of Agriculture of the University of Norway, Department of Chemistry of the University of Antwerp, Belgium and International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, Austria, is a 2001 study. The Department of Gynaecology and Accumulation "Aristotel" University of Greece in Thessaloniki was studied in 2005. Since it's a very large material, I'll read only parts of those research. Today, the Royal Society of Britain discusses the link between poor uranium and cancer. They conclude that the poored uranium is radioactive and toxic. They further conclude that exposure to sufficiently high doses of poored uranium may increase the risk of disease from certain cancers, predominantly lung cancer, leukaemia and kidney disease. Others in their studies say – poored uranium disrupts in vitro expressions, causes fractures of the DNA chain, causes carcinogenic mutations in human lung tissue and causes genetic instability in osteoplasty, which causes osteosarcokil, or in bone cancer. The uranium absorbed in the blood binds to plasma proteins 40%. So distributed into the organism, the impoverished uranium has a half-time breakdown, it's been in the bones for 20 years, and in the lungs for four to five years. Inhalation, they say, poored uranium has a double harmful effect on lung tissue, radioactivity and a direct chemical reaction in the body that certain scientists agree can be more harmful than radioactivity itself. So that I don't read any more, you can find everything I've brought out on PubMed, and that's the world's largest medical magazine base. Finally, I support the formation of the commission and the initiative of the president of Mrs Gojkovic's National Assembly, as well as the chairman of the Health and Family Committee, because the commission will have both a human and a medical component because we want the truth, we want facts, for the sake of innocent victims of all of us, but also for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36003	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36004	Thank you, Chairman. What is a fact is that NATO committed aggression in Yugoslavia and did not bomb Yugoslavia in 1999 under international law. All the honors of the Yugoslav Army who heroically endured the war had very little losses, and on the other hand, effective facts, especially when it comes to operations that took place in Kosovo and Metohija. What is wrong with us is that, of course, we knew immediately that once again this commission, at a time when Kosovo's problem and Kosovo's node will follow, will serve as a daily policy, how it will balance the patriotic capacity of those who are trying to establish that the poor uranium is harmful. That's why the commission absolutely didn't have to meet, since the impoverished uranium is harmful. Why is this commission made today and not in 1999? What did it take in 1999 for you, as the great patriots who advocated the extension of the war, to fight NATO even on earth, not just in the air, and to be against the Kumanovo Agreement and even the lady who proposed this commission? It was a little obvious that the people were suffering for a few months. What's very strange is why they didn't have time as the ruling majority to do it in 1999. Why didn't they take care of the health of the citizens at the time, and why was NATO bombing not responsible for the adverse effects? On the other hand, we propose to the Commission to determine the consequences of your policy in the 1990s, because only one of the consequences of your policy in the 1990s is the bombing of NATO in 1999. What your policy has done to Serbian citizens, there is no bomb that has taken so many lives in the world, that has made so many victims and made so many people unhappy, as your policy in the 1990s. When are you going to stop dealing with ethics...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36005	My colleague Bozovic, obviously you weren't at the session yesterday... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36006	Don't interrupt my presidency. Let me say...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36007	I have to interrupt you, otherwise you're being warned about this kind of speech and this kind of accusation. So we have a topic today's session and I'm really asking you. I don't want to punish you today. It's a very important topic and requires serious debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36008	For what? Because of the consequences of someone's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36009	Please, no bombs, no insults. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36010	If you don't like what I'm discussing, come in and replicate. We can discuss it. What's the irrefutable fact is that bombings were first and foremost for the citizens, but not for you. You're the ones who caused the bombing with your own policies. In 1999, you couldn't create a committee for the consequences of the impoverished uranium, but you were able to share state-owned apartments. You could have robbed the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36011	Comrade Bozovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36012	It's an honor to have been warned. Tony Blair, who was one of the leaders of the aggression in Yugoslavia, is today one of the biggest SNS advisers, a friend who gets big projects, which gets big money, to advise that today you should behave in relation to the Kosovo solution and the Kosovo issue. That war has made many miserable. Of course, the generals, like General Delic sitting here, Sreto Malinović, who is a member of DS and many others, Petra Radojićic, said that many of the ones I didn't mention here, and then participated in these conflicts, were those who fought in that war, even though they didn't want to. They defended the country honestly, faithfully, although they were not in favour of this war, and where were those who caused this bombing, whose policy has made this people, citizens in Kosovo and Metohija unhappy, either those of Serbian or Albanian nationality? How many bombs fell on civilians? What we will never forget, and we mention it all the time in any contact with foreign diplomats, and with Tony Blair, of course, we would never have seen it, is that we resented one shameful NATO pact policy at that time, which, despite the fact that you have unhappy our citizens and our people, and he as NATO pact bombed Serbia-Montenegro, then Yugoslavia, and caused enormous damage, material and everything else. In the end, the war ended by losing Kosovo and Metohija. In 1999, the policy was devastating and lost part of the Republic of Serbia. Today, only the consequences of this policy have been signed since 1999. Today, 18 years after 2000, you all sign what you lost with the war and your devastating policy in 1999 and today you try to push for daily-political purposes, spread panic and say how great the consequences of the poor uranium are to the citizens and their health. They're huge. I'm glad your colleague who had leukemia survived and I'm glad he was cured, but it's a shame for you that the spin you're saying here is that the citizens of Serbia are among the most ill in Europe. That's not true. It is mortality that is the largest in Europe in Serbia, which is because of a poor health system, in which you absolutely did not invest. I'm glad your colleague was cured, but why was he treated in Italy and not in Serbia? Which is why citizens don't have the right to know how much you twisted in 1999 and to help this make them feel this way, and today they don't even have the right to be treated in Serbia because they don't have enough experts, because they flee from this country and go to Germany and northern Europe. These are the devastating consequences of your policy and it takes a commission to determine these devastating consequences. This Pasic policy of hatred towards the West, which you are propagating today, and then with the same west, Tony Blair and various others, you are participating in various projects, which is a policy that has absolutely broken down. She also lived when Nikola Pasic opposed the introduction of the railway, and was very happy to fly to European hotels and go to European spas, rested in European countries, and in Serbia he did his best not to have that Europe in it. So today, you're doing everything you can to distract the people, to use such serious topics for daily-political purposes, and on the other hand, you're doing everything you're told. You're meeting Tony Blair, you're solving the Kosovo issue the way you measure those who ended up standing next to you and fighting for that absolute independence. When will you have the ethics of good intentions, which you constantly, to God, have for the citizens, to replace the ethics of responsibility and to say what is your responsibility for the poored uranium in Serbia? Which is your responsibility for the 1990s and lost territories, where once the Serbs lived that they were gone today. We will never tell Kosovo and Metohija that you traitors because you are forced to sign the Brussels Agreement, but you are traitors because you have declared Serbian citizens Albanian nationality in the 1990s to be terrorists, separatists and have done everything you can to challenge this bombing, and today Kosovo and Metohija are not in the integral part of Serbia. That's what your policy's about. With that poor uranium, you have nothing to form a commission, it's harmful. It is harmful to the health and safety of people, but your policy has brought this poor uranium to Serbia and needs to form a commission to determine what your responsibility is for everything you've done in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36013	The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36014	Thank you. Mr. President, I have one objection to you for interrupting MP Balša Bozovic in your speech. This speech really helps all of us here in parliament to know in advance that DS will vote, that one thing they say in the media, that it will certainly support the formation of a commission to deal with the consequences of the 1999 NATO Pact bombing in Yugoslavia and the impact of this bombing on our health and on the protection of the environment. On the other hand, parliament is the right place to publicly present to the citizens of Serbia a real political position, and this is what we had the opportunity to hear today. Most MPs did not surprise this speech at all. This speech was expected, and we knew that not only did the MP who spoke earlier, but also those who, in their absence today, are simply talking about what fear they have of the results of this commission's work and how to explain that they have also supported that this commission is starting to work. Such a discussion, such as the discussion was held by Balša Bozovic earlier, was not heard in the Italian parliament when our colleagues did the same. In no session, either in the second, nor in the third, nor when they showed the results of their work in front of their parliament and the European Parliament, which is a report that proves that Italian soldiers were sick, sick, and are going to die in the future as a result of serving on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and other territories in the Western Balkans, which have been bombed by poor uranium missiles. You can throw, go ahead. But I won't give up no matter what my name is, what kind of political biography I am, as a layman, because I'm not even an atomic physicist, that this committee in front of parliament is one day telling the truth. If you have different data, dear colleague, go to the commission and tell your relevant opinion, the data why you think Serbia is not dying from a bomb bombed uranium. (Balsa Bozovic: I said you're dying.) ) I have not interrupted you, I have even advocated that you say your position and your opinion to the citizens of Serbia to the end, and you and your opinion on the formation of a commission in fact do not have or will not end up showing it here, because you know that with two percentage points, after these speeches and not voting, you will have zero percent. The only policy score since the multiparty system was formed, so as long as someone doesn't cancel it, they only give citizens the election. That's not what political opponents give each other. That's the flatulence, and that's because we disagree. The only rating is given by Serbian citizens in the elections, and you speak ill of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens believe that Alexander Vukic's policies and parties supporting him are worth 55% at the moment. If you want to change people and import others, then say so, but don't do this part of the agenda. I didn't expect anyone to politicise this topic and that because they know that this topic hurts many Serbian citizens, and almost all whether Serbs, Albanians, Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Bulgarians, I didn't know that the diseases are so shared and whether they are in SNS, in the SRS, in the LSV or democratic, are equally injured and have the same consequences of bombing. The fact that yesterday a reporter said that Denmark has more cancer, no one slows down here. Denmark wasn't bombed. We are not concerned with whether there is an increase in cancer in general in Europe and which country has fewer or more than one country's population. It's not a topic at all. Only if someone wants to blur it out and no one understands anything, is there more in Denmark. Unfortunately, there may be more of them, and that's a terrible piece of information for me as if someone interested in what's going on in the world at all. But we're saying whether there's an increase in the number of patients suffering from various severe illnesses due to the bombing. It's completely two different things. We didn't have a school or have a school, I guess every citizen understands what it takes to be questioned here. You know what's sad? It is sad when the MP of the People's Parliament rises up and says things like this. He's completely relativizing, talking about who's guilty, who's not guilty, it's terrible to say that Serbia, no matter who's responsible, was at any point leading the blame, that someone was raising planes and solving problems by bombing. I'm asking the chairman not to interrupt anyone who's going to say such a thing. It's good for Serbia to hear that there are politicians here, that there are MPs who say -- it's Serbia's fault they threw poor uranium at us. You won't hear that in any country in the world whether regimes change. It's a crime to bomb someone, I'm going to repeat that with an impoverished or unimpaired uranium. It's a crime to bomb. Have you ever heard, and we all know, Japan during World War II whose side it was on? We know what happened so they could capitulate. Right? The first atomic bombs were dropped on them, on Hiroshima and on Nagasaki. Hiroshima had stronger and more serious consequences for people later and for environmental protection, because the bomb exploded in the air, it's that famous mushroom. Turns out there's less consequence because the bomb hit the ground, the rock floor. Has it ever occurred to anyone in the history of Japan that right now, he's not going out to bow down to the victims of that terrible bomb bombing? Has anyone ever, no matter which side Japan was on in World War II and who then led their governments? It's terrible and it's sad that there are politicians here when you want to find out the truth, no one here has said what's true, and do people really get sick of these consequences, and if we have consequences for the environment, get up an MP in defense of it because he knows he won't be at the polls because he's embarrassed to push the button and say, "I don't want this commission to form," he gets up and says, "Where were you, Mrs Gojkovic, 1999?" I don't know where you've been. I know Wolf Jeremic was in London, that's what I know. It's often he himself says he was in London. I know there were a lot of people in Budapest, in hotels. So those who had some money, they were able to get away from their children, their families, and I don't blame them for that. Everyone in Hell's War, bombing, throwing bombs at their heads, destroying escapes as they know and can. Where you've been, I don't know. I was in Serbia. I've been in Serbia, and I'll never, whether I have the money to escape to some Segedin motel or a hotel in Budapest or somewhere, I'm so raised, I'm not leaving my country. I was in the shelter. I'm glad you're making a phone call and you're not ready to have a dialogue on serious issues. (Balsa Bozovic: Yes, but I won't.) Wave your hand, I know you're not interested, you're not interested in anything. (Balsa Bozovic: I am not interested in you. I'm not interested in you. I'm not interested in you either, but you represent some part of Serbia's citizens who are getting smaller and smaller. When I address you, I address people who have given you confidence to be against the establishment of this commission today, to justify the bombing, to justify someone throwing poor uranium on us and on you, Balsa Bozovic and on your neighbors and on your families. I address her when I say Balsa Bozovic, because someone circled the name of your party and sent you here. Now that you're talking, don't speak for yourself, like I'm not saying for myself, and I'm not suggesting something for myself, but you're saying for those 2% who still believe that you're going to represent them in the right way. So no one in Japan would have this kind of speech, this attitude that you have, and they were in World War II on the wrong side. We've never been on the wrong side. Serbia has an honorable history. We can go back to the past, be stared at in the past, and look at the future, as members of your parliamentary group have been repeating as a mantra since 2000, constantly looking to the future and facing the past. There, the past is in 1999, part of it. Let's put that history together from 1999 and the future we're looking for, see where we are and see if there's any consequences with us or no consequences. Is there or isn't there? Is there a healthier living in Serbia, or in Denmark, as we heard yesterday? Denmark is not bombed, and Serbia is bombed. We know it's hard for you to talk about this. You're asking why we haven't established this since 1999? (Balsa Bozovic: What? ) You see, the first report, Reverend Bozovic, seems to me that in the late years you completed both the university and that I can explain some things to you, the first report was made in 2001. I don't know what to do since 1999. (Balsa Bozovic: You don't know what to do? Yes, you helped us. (Alexander Martinovic: We were rebuilding the country. We were fixing bridges. How many bridges were built? I know we've been rebuilding the country, but it doesn't interest the honourable MP. It's his discussion -- where you've been and what you've started to do this year, because that's what he says we're building a patriotic capacity. What a wise sentence! No, we don't, we're patriots. Like the Italians who were investigating these patriots. Like, let me tell you something, you who say nothing happened, I have a Slovenian report, I haven't translated it, but since I understand from the old Yugoslavia and I'm fairly well in Slovenia, we've been educated not so virtually but we've had to study and read in both Macedonian and Slovenian, and we haven't missed anything, that report says that 200 Belgian soldiers and officers are sick, the Belgian Corps of Four have died. How is it that the Italians suffered from the impoverished uranium, the Belgians died, and the Serbs did not suffer? And all citizens, other than Serbs living in this country, have no consequences of poor uranium, we are not sick, our environment where we are moving is not threatened, and all European peoples who are investigating this issue, whose soldiers are sent to Kosovo and Metohija without any protection and preparation, are allowed to investigate and determine that there really are consequences and that their soldiers are sick and dying. This is a very difficult topic, very complicated, demanding, to talk about it as if we were sitting in a Belgrade bar, to talk – son, brother, what was it in 1999, but in 1999 we were really rebuilding the country from hell... You can fuck all you want, you don't bother me at all, you're even helping me finish the discussion. You're helping me a lot, my colleague Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) We did so while you were preparing to take over the state in 2000, past the election results, because these election results, unfortunately, we can never see because they were burned in this building. So it's all our fault. Thank you very much, colleague, and you, well, are not exactly guilty of anything, you are not to blame for 2008 and not in 2009 and 2010, Kosovo just declared its independence, the president was Boris Tadic, the Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica, the foreign minister was Vuk Jeremic, and you raised the people here in 2000 to go to the streets because you spoke – the Kosovo and Metohija issue is only because of Slobodan Milosevic, when we replace him, Kosovo remains in Serbia. And then you got into this building, burned down so you wouldn't see what the election results really were, and stole the pictures. Return the paintings, and all will be forgiven! At least from where we're going.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36015	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36016	Mr. Marinkovic, I have waited for the president of Mrs. Gojkovic, as an authorised promoter to finish his presentation, and I will not be so nice in speaking when I comment on what happened, which is a violation of Parliament's dignity and Article 107. Mr Marinkovic, you were obliged when you saw MP Balša Bozovic speak as a promoter of Ramush Haradinaj and Hasim Thaci in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to stop the exposure because in the most harsh way possible insults the victims of the criminal NATO bombing, as well as all the people who have been ill and, unfortunately, many more will suffer from the consequences of these bombs, and that is exactly what we need to discuss today – how will the Commission of the National Assembly, composed of representatives of most political parties, determine what these villains were doing? Now I don't have time in these two minutes to quote some of the criminal statements and those that were the greatest promoters, political and military, of this and such bombing of our country. Believe me, those quotes don't give a shit what Balsa Bozovic said. To make one comparison, MP Miljan Damjanovic, who came out of the hall, went to the Committee on European Integration to ask for the shift of Nenada Canka, who called for Vjos Osmani, who is the ideologist UČK and that is the reason for the shift of Nenada Canka. So MP Miljan Damjanovic is the same year as Balsa Bozovic, born in 1983. The one in Belgrade, Damjanovic, Prizren. Imagine, now, that one Balša Bozovic, who was embezzled in his free and fine life in 1999, speaks in such a way, and in the Serbian Parliament there is a representative like Damjanovic, who is unlike him...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36017	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36018	Please let me finish. ... who, unlike him, was in his native Prizren, his brothers and father in military uniforms defended against criminal NATO aggression, his mother, a medical worker, is everywhere where a criminal bomb fell investigating what water was and died of the consequences of cancer and of these villains. Now we need to listen and say it - it's okay, you can say it in the Rules of Procedure. He can't talk like that and he has to understand the responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36019	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Does he want us to say yes in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36020	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising article 27, and yet it's about article 107. You should not have allowed something to hurt the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is an excuse for the crime. You should not have allowed anything that hurt the victims, the victims of the bombing, their descendants, and all those who lost their loved ones in that aggression they called “the merciful angel. ” You should not have allowed one such act, an act of crime, to be associated with a government that was then headed by the state in 1999. No government, not at the time the government of the Republic of Serbia, is or may be the reason for the bombing, especially the bombing of the way it was done with the impoverished uranium, the forbidden funds, the forbidden military weapons, the forbidden ammunition. Isn't that a crime? Isn't that what's called an inhumane act? Isn't that something for every conviction? Anyone who doesn't have a sense of shame can say that. I ask you not to bring into contact with the people of the Republic of Serbia, even if they are victims, even though they are ashamed to say so, they are also victims of the bombing. We were all in a state of mental illness because of the bombing, whether or not it was poored uranium. It is enough that a single bomb has fallen no matter what nature it is, to destroy everything that means a normal life of man and all the freedoms that a man has and to which he has the right. So if someone's not ashamed, then I'll end up in one sentence, then you have to punish them far more harshly than you've done, and that consists of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36021	Thank you for your suggestions, even if I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day for the vote of counterpart Jovanovic? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miroslav Lazanski. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36022	Yes, a point in 106 that determines that you can only talk about the subject, or subject that is present here today. I would only answer two questions, or two dilemmas. It's been said here that... (Alexandra Jerkov: Is this the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36023	I'm sorry. We can't let a colleague of lazansky say what he's got. (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, he cannot respond to dilemmas. ) I'm sorry. Can we let a colleague of lazanski say what he's got? (Alexandra Jerkov throws out of place. Why are you so aggressive? Let's give a fellow lazanski a chance to say what he's got. Easy, guys, let's get you a colleague of lazanski's and... (Miroslav Lazanski: I really don't know why my colleague Jerkov jumps, I've always been nice to her? I don't know either, believe me. I don't know, either. I'm asking my colleague Jerkov just to let a colleague of lazansky go on and tell you what's going on in two minutes, I'll give you back your time. Here you go. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36025	I'm gonna have to get up because I don't see a colleague of Jerkov from this pay phone here. So it is said here that Serbia's policy has brought and implicated, in fact, a radioactive form. Please, colleague Jerkov, I see you don't interrupt me. I never interrupted you when you spoke. You know that. So Serbia didn't want a war. Yugoslavia didn't want war in 1999. For the record, we've been forced into war. Yugoslavia was attacked in 1999, past all international law regulations. NATO struck Yugoslavia, past its existing then statute. The NATO statute envisioned that NATO is a defence alliance and has the right to react only when a NATO member is attacked. We didn't attack any NATO members. Another question raised here – why is no commission formed in 1999? Well, gentlemen of the DOS, you've had 12 years from 2001 to 2012, so why haven't you formed and reached conclusions? I was twice a guest of the Japanese armed forces in 1994 and 2004, and I know how it is. The Japanese, who caused the war in the Pacific, by attacking Pearl Harbor, reacting to the consequences of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. They never forgave the Americans, and that tradition is present in them and in the armed forces. I don't know why we're being imputed here that it was our fault for the radio activity that took place in 1999 and that it's probably still going on. Well, we didn't want that war. The Yugoslav Army had to accept defence operations. Don't falsify history. That's inadmissible and embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36026	Thank you, Comrade Lazanski. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexandra Jerkov: Explain whether this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not?) Here, I'll explain, I'm sorry, but it's not my fault if someone doesn't know something. A friend of lazansky ordered it. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36027	Article 108. - You have to take care of the order at the session. You know, when you hear from a young colleague that Serbia is responsible for NATO's criminal bombing, when denying the existence of a terrorist KLA and its criminal activity, you might remember that people's "youth, madness". But this is a lot more than that. This is an example and citizens should know this, a hybrid war against Serbia and the Serb people, all these years, since 5 October 2000, to prove a lie that Serbia is responsible for NATO's illegal aggression. The answer was given by the UN, they banned the use of force against the then SRJ. Even in the British parliament, we found strength, unlike a young colleague, to say that it was an illegal aggression and that it caused a humanitarian disaster on KIM. There's just something else I want to tell all those NATO truth promoters about the crime committed on our country. The question was, who won in 1999? A young colleague defeated 100,000 members of our security forces at KIM who, when they were 18, 19, were defending your freedom. It's a shame to say something different. If they hadn't successfully defended themselves, if we hadn't successfully defended Serbia, it would have been occupied. That's what Wesley Clarke, the criminal who led the aggression on our country, says in the book "Modern Warring" where it literally said they were preparing 170,000 soldiers to enter and occupy Serbia. That's true, and don't spit on the graves of those who defended your freedom. It's embarrassing and dishonest.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36028	Thank you. I'm just asking that next time you're talking to me, you don't have to go straight to me. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Igor Bečić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36029	Article 109. Mr. Chairman, you have allowed people like Mr. Bozovic, who during their government robbed Serbia and Serbian citizens, to insult the victims of the 1999 bombing. All I can say is that in 1999, you were bombed and a bridge in the Vrbas, on the Great Back Channel, that what happens in Vrbas and despite the mortality, that only two members of my family died of cancer, and you, Mr. Bozovic, insult those victims in this way. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36030	I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Right to the replica Goran Ćirić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36031	Here is evidence from this series of violations of the Rules of Procedure in which we have listened to direct insults to one MP of the DS and evidence that this subject is clearly politicized. Although it is accused of politicizing this subject, we had absolute proof that you were politicizing it. The politicisation has begun precisely with these calls to DOS or DS regimes, as you call it, that he has not implemented it so far in 12 years. It's a summer question, then, when you run it like that, so well why it didn't start in 1999, in 2000, why not 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, etc. And that's politicization. And then when you say we don't have a position, we've shown our position and the DS Parliament Club will vote to form a commission. Gordana Komic, as an authorised representative, made it clear that it is pointless to talk about whether the poor uranium is harmful or not. Yeah, it's bad. We can all vote right now and we know it's harmful. And I was in the area, and I think it's important when we talk this way and accuse others of supporting the KLA, of supporting criminals who committed war crimes in 1999, I'm going to tell you that I was in missile units in Podujevo, which is also the point that is seriously targeted by missiles with impoverished uranium. Personally, I have a dilemma in which my own organism, as well as the organisation of all security forces, will react to this but also to all Serbs and Albanians in that area. Let me just finish, since you've allowed Natasha 40 seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36032	Okay, now you've already spent 10 seconds in suffocating.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36033	So, once again, it's important to point out the next thing that the DS will vote to form this commission, but we need to find solutions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36034	The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. (Goran Ciric: It's really not right! What arches are these? )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36035	I'm sorry I got the word, but I give up my word if it's possible to replicate Balša Bozovic. As an authorised promoter in the Rules of Procedure, I get the word always before others, if you didn't know it, but I don't want to hear any more of this, and why that. If MP Balsa Bozovic has something to say for himself, let him say it. But as an authorised promoter, I would like to say to his head of the parliamentary group that his position differs dramatically from that of Balša Bozovic, a member of the DS and the parliamentary group, who, in his address, on which we are discussing today, spoke quite the opposite of what MP Ciric is now trying to explain what their position is. And Balsa Bozovic has politicised this topic, no one has yet to say one word about who is guilty, whether this or that is it, but by his own exposure, the insults he has made here, the insults that are directed to Serbia, the insults that have been directed to people who lived and lived in this country, who want to hear the truth that we will get after this commission's work. He caused numerous replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, in which the messengers told them what had interfered with them in his speech, and he interrupted everything. It's a political stance, Mr. Kiric, which he put out. Well, he's not someone who came from the street, so you don't know that he's a member of your MP group and until the others have responded you haven't called to correct his speech. You called when you saw how wrong he was, how harmful it is for the DS, how not supported by those citizens who still vote for your party. That's why you called, and you didn't answer because at first you disagreed with what he said. He denied crimes, he was for the bombing of Yugoslavia, because he said that because the wrong policy of Yugoslavia had to be bombed. Well, it's not like none of these people here understood him very well. He just seems to understand himself well. These are the attitudes that have caused so much controversy and replication. (Goran Ciric: Okay, how much time does he have?) No, I am authorized, Mr. Kiric, if you have the greatest argument that a member of the Rules of Procedure is on such a serious subject, which attitude, time, how many seconds does it speak of you? It is important time for you, Rules of Procedure, to end what we are talking about, because you know, Serbian citizens, no matter what color they are, support the formation of a commission. I'm sorry you're going to suffer political consequences, because you don't have the courage to vote for this. This takes political courage. It is not easy to bring this topic to parliament in 2018. You don't think I'll have any consequences? You think I don't understand the addressing of many changes between the lines? You think Senator Skanu didn't have any political consequences? You think the military industry of his country didn't jump on him? Did you know that his party didn't have the courage to run for office again now that he's finished his term, but that's why he's the most popular in his region, I guess that's worth it. The support of the people he has, so he will return to the Senate, believe me, such a politician will return to the Italian parliament, and a politician who says – who is to blame for throwing bombs at us, will not be in parliament. Because the people are always right and the people always know why and how they vote for someone. And your foothold was once Belgrade, which is what you were complaining about, and the Belgrade citizens don't understand you at all anymore, and imagine how you're just understood by those areas that are bombed and we'll see it in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36036	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. For those of you who don't know, as a proposing, there's unlimited time, he can speak. Right on line, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36037	I thank the chairman. They repeat what I said, and Mrs. Gojkovic tried not to hear, I think that NATO bombing was a NATO aggression in Yugoslavia and I stand behind it. Unlike them, who hang out with Tony Blair, I've made my point every time I communicate with foreign diplomats, it was aggression. Once again, it is every honor for the Serbian Army to defend our country and for the honorable, fair and heroic stand against the world's greatest force of the past few months. But what I said was, first of all, that I was first grade high school back then. I don't know how I was preparing someone's shift back then, but I know that the ones I protested in Belgrade in 2000, that I was against them for the reason that they were then taking state property, apartments. Were we the victims of the bombing? We all did, except you. All except Slobodan Milosevic, Mirjana Markovic, Vojislav Seselj, Aleksandra Vukic, you, Mrs Gojkovic, who took state apartments while the citizens were fleeing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36038	My colleague Bozovic, we cannot overcome the problem in any way, you know that personal insults, families, apartments, houses are forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. I really don't expect that from you. Please don't, I'll be forced to punish you. (Balsa Bozovic: Just one more sentence. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: Houses are forbidden, pastures are forbidden. ) The personal insults of my colleague Jerkov are forbidden, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36039	One more sentence. It's NATO's pact to bomb the SRJ, and it's your fault that you had such a policy. And with Ramush Haradinaj, you are a coalition partner today, and not me who was then the first class of high school to whom you also questioned my generation with your irresponsible policies. Shame on you, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36040	Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure! I have an advantage over the replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36041	The Honorable chairman, respected colleagues, when those on a very important topic for Serbia's future are silenced to say -- the Rules of Procedure, and to earn while distinguished colleagues speak, and even MPs of the same parliamentary group, we will be able to, therefore, from this noise, which may be carved to stop talking about the real fundamental subject, and that is what comes to mind, to continue to talk about whether it is necessary for this important commission to really form. Thank you very much to the MP who has now replicated and for denying what the head of his parliamentary group has tried to correct, because he has a little more political consciousness so he understands what Balsa Bozovic has been saying and has repeated that we are responsible for the bombing of Yugoslavia. Thank you very much, you're repeating what they're repeating... What did you say now? (Balsa Bozovic: NATO and you) No, I don't. ... what he said was our fault for bombing this country, he reiterated what self-proponents of self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija have been repeating since 2008, because Kosovo did not go away in 2009, from 2008 to today. Now you can see why Balsa Bozovic had mercy on coming to this session at some point to repeat the views of those who say Kosovo had to leave Serbia, I just don't know why. I would like you in your political theory to explain why it is good that part of Serbia's territory is secededed. (Balsa Bozovic: You gave it. You gave it to me. ) In 2008, Boris Tadic gave it because he fled to Romania when citizens rose against it here. He gave Jeremic to have expensive apartments in New York to live as he heads the opposition party in New York, not in Serbia to share the fate of all of us. Vojislav Kostunica, the only politician who, whether you agree with him or not, has made a move to resign because his policy has failed. Politics, because they realized there was a big gap between the Democratic Party and its party and they took advantage of your support. In 2008, you allowed Kosovo and Metohija to go, you. You later helped them with your decisions, your decisions, Balsa Bozovic, the decisions of the Democratic Party that ruled from 2008 to 2012 with Serbia, from the local community, except in Novi Sad and Nis for a few years, from the local community to the president of the state. You helped them exempt the issue of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN, where we have more understanding of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state to come and get rid of it in the EU. It was the globular stake of your policy that you stuck in Serbia's fate. You did it, Balsha Bozovic. You will remain recorded in Serbia's history with this speech and that you are one of the few politicians who stood up and spit in the face of Serbian citizens and said that Serbia was to blame for the bombing and that Kosovo had to leave. I don't think what you've been doing to an honest man would have happened again, and you've done it twice today. Thank you very much. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Let me tell you something else, you insulted my father, my mother, and my family today. That's it. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36042	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: What about my injury? I called first. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36043	I thank you, Chairman, for Article 107. If you can just calm down a group that's been obstructing this Parliament's work all along. It's a shame, fellow MPs, to have someone step on something we do as a high value. And the high value is to find a causal link between aggression and all the consequences that this aggression has produced. It's a shame to bring this into contact with the government, and it's time for the citizens to hear the truth. Slobodan Milosevic then fought for the same thing that this government is fighting for. (Balsa Bozovic: Bravo! I agree. ) He defended his country and refused to allow Kosovo to leave Serbia, make Kosovo an independent state. It's the same goal, it's the same lofty value that Alexander Vukic and this government are fighting for. If someone won't accept it, then it's really gonna take these snivelings of citizens to earn one of the most severe judgments of shame and shame for what someone won't accept, and they won't accept two facts. The first fact is that then the government succeeded through aggression, through all that was a monster for the citizens of Serbia, to act on Resolution 1244. The resolution is a legal framework that protects Serbia today. The resolution is a legal framework that does not allow Serbia to be muddy and trampled internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36044	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) (Alexandra Jerkov: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Sreto Peric has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. I see you, colleague Jerkov, I see you. (Alexandra Jerkov: Look at me, but you are not responding, so I find it hard to judge. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36045	Mr. Chairman, Article 107(1). I can't believe, dear colleagues, that I'm sitting here listening to this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Those who spoke today, and some rich people yesterday, if only after the opening presentation of their colleagues, and then Prof. Vojislav Seselj, General Bozidar Delic and Mr. Milorad Mircic, would have been given guidance on how and how to discuss this subject. Free Milosevic has never been to Ljubova, it's a small town on Drina, he's never been to Ljubova, and a repeater has been bombed. I don't think he's even been to Gucheva, and the Guchevo Mountain has been bombed. What does that have to do with the authority that was then? There's one more thing, dear colleagues. Don't ever ask these why they haven't formed a commission to determine what this commission needs to determine. You know how they would form a commission and what her task would be? It would be a task to call upon NATO to return, that what he did not do then, to finish after they called. It's lucky they never did it. This kind of discussion I can't believe I'm listening to here and I don't know, let it serve them the honor. Isn't it a shame to come here and talk about it, to hurt the wounds of those who couldn't survive, who were not allowed to enjoy this grace, to mention Mr Vojislav Seselj in any context with the bombing of the SR Yugoslavia then? Well, only an idiot can do that. A normal man can't afford it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36046	Thank you, colleague Perich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word is Alexander Jerkov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36047	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, since the moment I reported, there have been several other grounds for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, including that MP, in line with Rule 103, who reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, has been given priority over the other speakers. I called to advertise Article 27. In this article, Mr Marinkovic, it says that you should lead this Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and not as you think, and that you should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, rather than allow us to be here in the radical-miljuscian coalition, and by what we hear from the ranks of the promoters, we can freely say the Radical-Milosevic Coalition, harassing and insulting us for an hour and a half, that you are not responding, that you are letting all the MPs from the SNS, obviously the future SRS again, who wanted this to be falsely reported for the injury of the Rules of Procedure actually replicating the MP Balša Bozovic, and in such a way that each of them should have been warned because of the insults he himself, but also to our party. So, Mr. Marinkovic, if you are unable to lead this session, if you feel that you are under the pressure of radicals and former radicals, you leave Mr. Marinkovic to someone else, you have two vice presidents by your side, but please either start applying the Rules of Procedure or otherwise prevent radicals and former radicals from harassing us here, insulting us and making a circus out of this assembly, which they know they've been doing for the past 30 years alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36048	Thank you. My colleague Jerkov, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. The colleagues responded fully to the Rules of Procedure and responded to Mr Bozovic's speech. As far as co-operation with the SRS is concerned, I have very correct co-operation, and that's absolutely no problem and I don't consider it my fault. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) I set a one-minute break, in accordance with Article 112. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's MP Balsa Bozovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36050	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to say it one more time because a hundred times lied by the ruling majority is the goal of making it true, and I'm really not going to let it happen. NATO has committed aggression against the SRJ and is as guilty as Slobodan Milosevic and his policy, in which Vojislav Seselj and Aleksandar Vukic and Maja Gojkovic participated and many others. So the policy that brought poor uranium to Serbia is your policy. NATO is certainly to blame for this and I will judge them as long as I live. Haradinaj is your coalition partner and you cannot say that anyone from the opposition advocates the policy of Ramush Haradinaj, which your SNS MPs vote for in the Kosovo Assembly. Today we heard what we were saying for a long time, and you didn't want to admit it, but here it is public today that the policy of Slobodan Milosevic from the 1990s is everything that Alexander Vukic stands for today. Thank you because SNS as new radicals, SNS and SPS are a 90s coalition. You can't get away from that policy. You want to be heirs to Djindjic, and in fact you are only heirs to Slobodan Milosevic from today. That's what you said and confessed publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36051	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36052	Article 107, Mr. Marinkovic. What DS is saying today, it was said in 1991, that Serbia is guilty of war in Croatia. When the war broke out in Bosnia, Serbia was responsible for the war in Bosnia. When there was an armed rebellion at KIM, it was Serbia's fault. What Balša Bozovic is saying in 2018 is the continuation of this policy and it is not Balša Bozovic's policy, it is an official DS policy. Here's what the president of the DS said in Dragan Sutanovac's resignation, which ruined the military. Imagine if someone attacked us today or attacked us when the Secretary of Defense was Dragan Sutanovac. The military couldn't defend itself for 78 days, two days we couldn't defend how much that man devastated the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. So, gentlemen of the DS are today saying what their official policy is. In an interview with NIN on 12 October 2017, Dragan Sutanovac said – what are the facts about Kosovo that we need to be aware of when we talk about a possible solution. Officially, Serbia lost the right to exercise power in KIM after the war, according to Milosevic's regime against the entire Western world, but it was essentially lost when the tanks had previously responded to the Albanian's desire for autonomy and equality. So, the ChiM sharps stood up to fight for autonomy and equality, which was allegedly threatened by Slobodan Milosevic's regime. A brief mention of Lieutenant General Petar Radojicic, a member of the main DS board, and that is the official DS policy, says of the NIN also since 2017 – the self-proclaimed military neutrality of 2007 is an unfounded and internationally unrecognizable form with unclear content. NATO's acceptance of standards and co-operation or membership in the alliance requires significant resources, while such neutrality costs much more than it puts security into achieving the goals it was adopted for. So here's the part of showing the naked DS policy. Serbia is to blame for the bombing, Serbia is to blame, to return to 1991, to the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, and therefore, there is no need to establish any responsibility for anyone else when the regime of Slobodan Milosevic broke Yugoslavia and stood up to the legitimate aspirations of the raptors to be autonomous and to be equal with other citizens of Serbia. It's an official DS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36053	I've extended enough for you to finish your sentence. The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36054	Since the honourable MP tried to discuss with me through replicas, I will continue to speak. Now we can all conclude and determine what the DS's position is on the agenda today, about which they flee to speak or speak in a way that will cloud the essence, which is our desire to know the truth about the effects of the bombing. What is truly devastating, I really cannot interfere with a policy of a particular political option, nor is it my intention, that it is more than once today with pride, it is even said that, for the rest of my life, it will be repeated by the MP if he is kept in the ranks of his party, that Serbia is guilty of poor uranium. That's the impression of this session and its discussion. I wrote it down carefully. Three or four times today has been repeated – Serbia is guilty of bombing with poor uranium. It is a great honor for this sentence and I am pleased that the citizens of Serbia in direct transmission can today conclude who is talking about what today and what attitude they are talking about. The fact that someone was 15 years old, so he says that only when he was 16 he realized what was going on, so he went straight to the streets, it's sad that someone was going on, then it means, not with their own knowledge, but with a mass that was instructed very well, and that's what everyone knows about the demonstrations in 2000, it's no longer a conspiracy theory of those who didn't participate. Now participants are also saying what happened from the bombing until October 5th, as it was prepared and then it's sad to say that at the age of 16, parents, without any knowledge, sent him to the street to take over the National Assembly, but they certainly didn't send him to pick up any works of art. I don't think parents do that. Don't justify being 15 or 16 years old, now you're 30 and how old I don't know, 18 years old, and now 16 years old, he hates me counting on you not to know anything about the history of Serbia's lack of understanding and the tendency to make Kosovo an independent state. You don't know anything. I feel like now that Balsa Bozovic here was saying that I was talking to a distant MP from a country saying there - your problems were caused because you were harassing, and I recently heard this in a bilateral visit abroad, and I was shocked by what people actually decide about our fate and raise their hands there between coffee breaks when we were 39th, some point, those without any knowledge raise their hands against Serbia. They say -- we bombed you, it's a good thing we bombed you, although his country wasn't involved, because you were harassing Albanians. They don't know, like Balsa Bozovic, anything about the Prizren League. Nothing. I don't expect them to, but I expect someone who's graduated from a college like that to know something. And he should know something when he gets up and says things like this, like we heard today and estimates that we were bombed because of a policy that was conducted in three or four years before the bombing, I quote MPs -- I don't know anything that we had demonstrations on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in 1961, where the passwords were "Kosovo is a Republic". You might find out something, not texting, because it's scary, you're younger than me, you're gonna stay in this House and you're gonna talk here again at least because you don't want to hear it. Well, here's if in 1961 he didn't have anyone to pass on to you or didn't go to school to let you know that it happened in 1961, during Tito's regime that you often refer to and inherit some of his ideas. In 1968, I apologize, not 1961. Then a little closer to 1981 when they were made under the cloak of dissatisfaction of students in Pristina, again a horrifying demonstration in which students began to roll over in canteens those of their food trays and went out into the streets, were mass demonstrations on the streets again with the password "Kosovo is a Republic". That was 1981. Here in the hall, very few people were involved in politics, a respected colleague of Bozovic. So imagine what I would look like or any serious MP in this House if he stood up and said – someone who led the country at the time is guilty of bombing in 1999 with poor uranium. It is such a diletanism that I am ashamed that today the citizens of Serbia are even listening to someone who says that this Kosovo so-called. Kosovo's problem arose in 1999. What you won't say, you don't know what to say, which then only nine years later, Kosovo and Metohija declared themselves independent and later received recognition from states that still today support the independence of a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? That's how it was and that's how it's gonna be. So why would Boris Tadic allow it, as president of the state? What did his rebellion look at? Right, I can't remember, what exactly were his political moves to stand firm against it? What is in the archives of our country and what will be available after a certain time will be for everyone, his talks with individual factors where he prays not to do so before his election as President of the Republic of Serbia. It's not a saying, it's not a gossip paper, it's what stands and it's going to stand. And there are witnesses and there is evidence. It's the only thing he did. What Vuk Jeremic did, I don't know, except the ease of continuing to be the foreign minister who lives in New York and who you've never respected the state property his family has. I must tell you, Balsa Bozovic, because of my family, not because of the public, and because of your insolence, where you label people, to tell you something... (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) With pleasure, I would give you all the replicas of this world, because you are sinking and sinking. My family and I, personally, never, ever, through centuries to this day, have received nothing from this country, but through the history of this country, you who live in various state dwellings that you have bought for the Tepsia of fish, through the history of Yugoslavia and Serbia, I address you. I'm talking to you about me who never got anything from the state, but the Gojkovic family, through the history of the state of Yugoslavia, didn't get anything from Serbia, and we gave it all to this country and I'm doing it today and I'm going to do it in the future. Stop labeling people because I don't want to communicate with you through courts, because it's not my level, it's how you publicly make up fiction, so I'm going to publicly tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36055	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. ) The right to replica has Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36056	Mr. Mircic by the Rules of Procedure, my colleague?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36057	Comrade Milicevic, will you take your word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36058	I thank my colleague Marinkovic. On several occasions, the SPS was mentioned. Mrs. Gojkovic, I will fully agree with you. So, definitely the truth that we want to get to is not the interest of all of us in this room, unfortunately, and it seems to us that what is, to confirm that finding we have said so many times, is that what is good for Serbia, seems not good for all political options and for all politicians on Serbia's political scene. As for the SPS, 28 years of existence and political action and for all 28 years, we have survived and much for all 28 years a relevant political factor. There are certain things they can blame us for, but they can never say that we were against our country and against our people. In the 1990s, treason and surrender were heard, so what was the basis for the defence of national and state interests in 2000? It is political fluids from the 1990s, Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council and the Dayton Agreement. Unlike others, we say openly – bombing is a crime against our people. How did it come and what was the reason for the bombing? So false charges of genocide and ethnic cleansing. We were running data on yesterday. In Croatia 1990. 380 thousand Serbs, today 160 thousand. More than 150 thousand lived in Sarajevo, today 10 thousand. In Pristina, the 40,000 that once lived there, today only a few hundred. Who did the genocide, where and when? Where were the Serbs when they committed genocide? Free Milosevic, Slobodan Milosevic's policy is responsible? There is no Slobodan Milosevic for 18 years on Serbia's political scene. Why did pressure on Serbia continue after 2000? Why was Serbia punished after 2000? Why did the pressure continue? Is persecution of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija continued, is Montenegro separated? Has one-sided independence of Kosovo and Metohija been declared? Leave Slobodan Milosevic alone, time will show its own, and citizens speak very clearly in the elections what they think of your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36059	Thank you, dear colleague Milicevic. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. We're closing a circle of replicas. We're moving on with our work. Dragana Kostic has a word. Here you go. (Milorad Mircic: I advertise the Rules of Procedure. Is this your private assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36060	I thank the chairman. Milorad Mircic: What are you playing at? Before I begin my discussion, I must quote today our late Patriarch Paul...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36061	Okay, come on, pick it up again, sign in. Excuse me, colleague Kostic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36062	I don't know who to thank for this privilege of speaking with the Rules of Procedure in this House. I'm advertising a breach of members 104 and 106. Here we are, not a little time, when we hear in this assembly about everything and everything, just not about the subject that's on the agenda. Those of you who chair this assembly must be guided by the Rules of Procedure. When someone is insultingly expressing himself to certain individuals, according to their colleagues, according to political parties, then you have to be just only in the part where you have to give at least an opportunity to answer. We in the SRS sort of understand the mental state of some colleagues, and it's called a guilty conscience. When they kidnapped several times the democratically elected president of Serbia, Vidovdan, delivered him as flesh and participated in the murder of that man, they were aware that it would follow them through life. This curse of psychicity, as it was established in the Serbian people, can't be removed by setting aside other political parties and political non-equivocals. When Vojislav Seselj was delivered to 11 and returned, they were disappointed. Today, they and Plenkovic share the same opinion. The Prime Minister of Croatia speaks the same way as those who remain in the dilemma of which political option and which ideology they represent. You know, their gap between Vojvodina, an independent state, and crossing the Drina in 1996 to pick up votes is still at stake. We don't know what's between that gap, obviously something that fits the character trait.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36063	Thank you. I'm really trying to prevent the insult of anyone and any of the MPs. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36064	Thank you, Chairman. Citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow MPs, before I go into any discussion, I must quote the late Patriarch Paul -- "Forgive them God, for they do not know what they are doing." This applies to those across the street who have said so far, and even more insulting to the people of this Serbia. "A merciful angel", "joint force", "humanitarian intervention", or who knows how certain world minds have called criminal bombing by NATO, will carry on a lengthy 70 children's smiles, 2,500 violently interrupted lives, 12,500 are wounded, and material damage is known. If indeed angels had been able to feed 79 million people hungry on the planet for that money, how many out-of-body fertilities could be financed, and we grew in Serbia the percentage of the sterility of both sexes, that young couples struggled for years for their offspring after their attacks. NATO aircraft crashes spent as many oxygens as it takes the entire Serbian citizen for 50 years to live in 78 days. How much humanitarian intervention has been talking about 15 tonnes of fire-fighting missiles with low uranium, which has placed Serbian citizens three times more affected by cancerous diseases than the world average, and twice the number of patients suffering from leukemia than the European average. On today, exactly 19 years ago, NATO rocketed the Neurology Department at KBC "Dragisa Misovic", with three patients killed and several medical workers injured. Seven guards of the Yugoslav Army who were in front of the clinic were also killed. It's been destroyed by a Neurological clinic, and since the explosion of the demoralized building of the Centre for Children's Pulmonary Diseases and Tuberculosis and the Gynaecological Obstetrics Clinic. At the time of the attack, four births were ongoing, two pregnant women were injured, and babies were evacuated to other hospitals. Years ago the most discussed was the fact of the poored uranium from NATO missiles, but significantly less about other harmful effects of the chemical war. Targeted are oil and petrol tanks, trafo-cells in which it was propylene, which belong to carcinogenics, mutagens and teratogenics. The flame was burning out in the open, which is unimaginable in Europe, because all the products of the combustion of the pyrenas are extremely toxic. According to the UN Environment Report, major consequences have left NATO's strength on industrial plants, as chemicals whose fact can be compared to battle poisons have been uncontrollably released into the environment. The Commission's establishment aims to determine the consequences, but to further identify the causes of an increasing number of Serbian citizens than cancerous diseases. This phenomenon requires a multidisciplinary approach and the processing of all available data and witnesses, where this commission, I have no doubt, will most strongly respond to the task set. I am grateful to Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, counterpart Dr Darka Laketić and everyone who has made it possible for us to speak publicly today about the problem that most of us, directly or indirectly, are plagued by, in the hope that the truth will show our true face. In the end, I can't help but notice and share with the citizens of Serbia, but the second day in the parliamentary benches of the yellow company there are no MPs in different variants. A Latin proverb has been disillusioned in the people, similar to that of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36065	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. She's not present. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36066	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all over the last 19 years, we've been suppressing our thoughts and emotions, because the previous government has not allowed us to speak properly about NATO bombing, we've kept it deep down. Talking about NATO bombing and the consequences for me are a great obligation and responsibility, first, because I come from KIM, and then because of the profession I'm doing. On March 20th, 1999, at 1945, as we all know, the first emergency sirens appeared, a deafening sound blocked the air in Serbia. It was the first day in a series of 78 long days of unfeeling aggression by the world's largest alliance on a small, proud country in the heart of Europe. The strongest 19, without the UN Security Council's approval, has hit the land of an unruly people who have only defended their own. The next 78 nights and days NATO planes fired at us 50,000 different missiles. They collapsed first on the barracks and the Yugoslav Army, and it also on the whole country. The infrastructure, economy, schools, hospitals, monuments of culture, media houses has been destroyed. So behind him, at every minute, NATO left the smell of garages, mixed with smoke and the smell of human blood. It's been hard all over our troubled country, especially on Kim. It hit from all sides, from the sky and from the earth. Everyone had a job and a job to do. My fellow doctors and I, along with the explosions and the general chaos, were also focused on patients. Babies were born, their cries didn't stop, and they were destined to become little heroes immediately upon the arrival of this world. It was a difficult moment, but it was even more difficult that we doctors knew exactly what was ahead of us and what were the consequences of the bombing and what NATO were carrying with them. In the 78 days of the bombing, more than 420,000 missiles were launched, and 37,000 cluster bombs were used to bomb civilian targets. In addition, part of NATO bombs were enriched with poor uranium. That kind of rocket was dropped about 15 tons. There is no city in Serbia that has not been targeted during 11 weeks of bombing. We all know what an impoverished uranium is, and I certainly won't give a definition, but I want to point out that only one particle of poored uranium in lymph nodes can destroy the entire immune system. I wonder if we should still have a conflicting opinion on whether the poored uranium continues to kill Serbian citizens or whether we should accept the fact that in years after NATO bombing Serbia has reached the top of the countries by the number of cancer patients and that it is at the top of Europe for the mortality of malignant diseases, and no one can dispute it. The study and analysis done in the KIM area, as well as the data provided by the Public Health Institute of Kosovo Mitrovica, which these, who have now left, do not know that there is a Public Health Institute in Kosovo Mitrovica, which is under the authority of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia... So, the Public Health Institute of Kosovo Mitrovica points to a significant increase in the number of malignancies in these areas. During the ten-year postwar period, starting in 2004, as conditions for the establishment of the database were then acquired, we have a steady increase in patients from year to year, a total of more than 1,700 newly ill in Serbian and non-Albanian environments. Of these, 60% of the male and 40% of the female patients are ill. So I stress once again that there is a continuous increase in the disease. The most common malignancies in men on the territory of AP KiM are lung cancer, urine bladder, prostate and colon, and in women with breast cancer, uterus throat, bladder and lung cancer. With an increase in the number of patients, the death rate of malignant diseases is increasing, and the total death rate is over 1,100. During the ten-year period, the leading causes of dying in men were lung cancer, colon, and prostate, and in women with breast and uterine cancer. All analyses show that we have a continuous increase in the number of newly ill men and women with malignant diseases in the AP KIM area, as well as an increase in mortality rates with a trend of growth in the next period. There's an increase in the number of children with malignancies. It's doubled compared to the time before NATO aggression. That's why we can't keep our mouths shut, because the silence of an amnesty criminal didn't allow the previous government to call things a real name. The crime and aggression we had to call intervention and make sure no one was offended, because it's our fault that they bombed us and destroyed our country, which they say today in this room. They wouldn't allow us to say anything about bombings because of petty personal interests that were above national, above morals and obligations towards our own children and generations to come, but finally it's time for our children who have been tortured and punished, like none in Europe, to do the job that we need and need, to determine everything that can be determined, and it's about NATO aggression and to bring it to the public. They just thought, it's over, it's been 19 years, the culprit's gone, there's only statistics on collateral damage left, and they're worth it, and there's someone who's going to tell them that such crimes don't go out of date. Nothing can get old and everything must be known. It does not grow old and suffers from the grief and pain of mothers who have buried their children, who have just walked, and the NATO bomb has already killed them and mothers who have sent their sons to the military, and have not welcomed them to return, because they have left their young lives in Kosharam and other caraulas. Mother Milic gave birth to the Kosovo Mitrovica, who gave birth to three sons. The two sons were buried, they were killed, and the third died shortly thereafter of grief and sorrow. How is it to pass, to forget? How to get old. We are constantly mentioned in the Milic Brothers Square, which bears their name in Kosovo Mitrovica. We've been through a lot, but we've gone down, but we've all risen again and we've found our way. The way of prosperity and progress, the way of co-operation with partners in the East and the West, but as a military neutral country because military neutrality for Serbia is the only right option, but we cannot possibly be members of the alliance, it would be too much salt on the Serbian wound. We all have a duty to the citizens, to tell them the truth after the dedicated and exhaustive work, because NATO bombing is an unprecedented crime in mankind's history. I fully support the formation of a commission headed by Dr Darko Laketic, to show the world the real truth about the impoverished uranium and its consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36067	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The word is Goran Bogdanovic. He's not there. Next on the list is Desanka Repac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36068	Thank you. First of all, I must commend the initiative and give my moral support for making a decision on the establishment of a commission to determine the truth and only the truth about the greatest crime against the Serbian people in history. We all owe the truth about what they did to us. NATO bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Serbia is known as NATO aggression or "Mercy Angel". It was the final phase of the war on KIM, which lasted from 24 June to 10 June 1999. It is the largest military conflict in Serbia-Montenegro since World War II. A crime without precedent. The cause of the bombing, the Racak case and the failed negotiations in Rambuje. All results are from the Kumanovski Agreement, Resolution 1244 to declare Kosovo's AP independence in 2008. The intervention was conducted without the approval of the Security Council, NATO began the air strike on 24 March 1999 from Aviano Base, to all its willing targets in the SRJ. The attacks lasted 78 days. The "merciful angel" killed children, destroyed Serbia. 79 children's smiles were extinguished, many people were wounded and lost their homes and jobs, and all in an operation called humanitarian intervention. The final death toll has not been officially announced. Serbian estimates in 78 days, that 2500 victims, of which 79 children, and 12500 people were wounded. The damage has been done to the state from 30 billion to 100 billion. Nineteen Alliance countries without UN approval have collapsed on small Serbia, its barracks against the Yugoslav Army's air defence. There were 30,000 air raids in the 78 days of the bombing. 50,000 missiles were fired, some even 90,000, 19 per cent, which is charity. About 37,000 cluster bombs and tape bombs were dropped at the SRJ, blue 114 that paralysed the energy system. A part of the bomb of the "merciful angel" was enriched by the impoverished uranium. It's a weapon of mass murder. How many of these bombs have been dropped, it's not official. Did they throw anything else at us, and it's an unknown. We have a shocking statement from a retired Italian general of NATO who said it was an experimental NATO war and that NATO trained its air force. They chose the targets that were bombed. These were oil and petrol tanks with liquid gas, tanks of chemical substances, which later spread to private and civilian facilities. As a result of the explosion and the fire, toxic toxic and highly dangerous chemicals that affected human health were released. In 2015, a report reported that Serbia is the first country in Europe to die from malignancies, or tumors. It is very important to prove that bombings affected the health of the population, increased number of malignancies, autoimmune diseases, sterile diseases. The biggest appeal is because we have a very high rate of malignancy in children in Serbia. The Commission should determine the consequences of bombing to health with a view to impoverished uranium, as it is a major expansion of malignant diseases in Serbia. Professor Slobodan Cikaric, president of the Anticancer Society, reported that 15 tonnes of poor uranium was dumped on Serbia. The professor believes that even a small dose of ionizing radiation can lead to malignant tumors. Malignant tumors can only occur after 15 to 20 years of radiation. The uranium decay period lasts for several hundred years, even thousands, so we are exposed to constant radiation that causes mutations of genes and cells of various species. The world's largest microsurgeon, Stevanovic, believes that we have a reality waiting for us that happened in Japan in 1945 when a whole generation of babies with various anomalies were born. The impoverished uranium leads to mutations in genes and in full cells, so that conditions are created for the birth of children with severe, mental and physical anomalies. For this reason, experts warn that the poored uranium will show only its most severe fact of people's health in Serbia due to its long breakdown. It takes time to make his point. We want the truth, to tell the citizens of Serbia, because this is a crime of unremembered proportions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36069	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. (Not present. ) The word has Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36070	I thank the chairman, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, this topic or debate on the education of the NATO bombing commission in 1999, according to the health of Serbian citizens, as well as the environmental impact, with a special reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium, can, in my opinion, be divided into four parts. First, it's a fact of radionucleotide on the human organism. Second, these are epidemiological observations, i.e. an epidemiological survey. Third, it's post-traumatic stress and malignancy. This chapter, which is largely to pay special attention and to take a special place in the report, which will be prepared by my esteemed colleague, Dr Laketic. Fourthly, it's an analysis of the history of malignancies, but reflected in these epidemiological studies. Only then can there be statistical significance that indicates or does not indicate a causal link between the fact of the poored uranium to malignancies. The first thing to define is what is actually poor uranium. It's a product that's derived from an excavated ore of uranium. Most radioactive isotopes, and isotopes are atoms of the same element, which have the same number of protons and electrons, but different number of neutrons. So they have the same chemical but different physical properties. It's used for nuclear weapons and atomic power plants, and what's less radioactive, it's a radioactive isotopic 238, which remains, and it's an impoverished uranium. So isotop 238 has the same atomic number of uranium, but different mass, which gives it the properties to be twice as dense as lead and flammable when impacted, which makes it effective in perforating springs. Most of the atomic cores that exist in nature are stable, i.e. remain unchanged indefinitely for a long time. Some core elements are unstable, they have the capacity to transform into another core, with the radiation of certain particles that come out of the core with great energy and this phenomenon is known as radioactivity. So, as a rule, every natural element has one or more stable isotopics, while its remains are radioactive and thus unstable, and they break up sooner or later. The uranium has isotopics that are unstable and disintegrate. The half-life of uranium is 4.5 billion years. So the consequences can be expected in later generations. Now I'm going to talk about something different from the other colleagues, I'm going to talk about the effect of radionucleotide on the human organism, so we can understand all the consequences that can arise after looking at all the cases in these epidemiological surveys that are going to be done. Some radioactive rays, alpha, beta, gamma, x or X-rays, as well as neutrons, have such a pervasive power to break the atomic cores of other elements by changing the properties of this bombed atom. And once an atom changes its properties, or structure, it's no longer the atom of that original element, but the atom of someone else. If this occurs in one atom, as part of molecules of a particular compound, the molecule feature will also change. Radioactive rays can hit the atomic core of a critical atom in a critical molecule, in a core, or to find chromosome, which will result in a change in the properties of that cell. More graphic to explain – someone else will appear in a normal organism, formed from a cell, whose property has been altered by the impact of radioactive air. Such a cell, with changed properties, will no longer behave like others in its environment, they will start uncontrollably breeding, creating tissues that have no use for the organism. Such a shapeless or wild organism in a normal organism is called a tumor. But if I wasn't so much, conditionally boring, or I'm not just talking professionally, I'll just say the following, given the time I have left – malignant tumors can occur 15 to 10 years after exposure to radiation, which means that those who are suffering today can be the result of the bombing. Empirical data, according to the 2014 data that coincided with 15 to 20 years ago, appear in Serbia with cancer 2.5 times the world average, and for the Kosovo and Metohija areas, which were exposed to the largest amount of radiation, even 50%. The latent period, which is the time it takes for the disease to develop from the moment of exposure to the leukemia and lymphoma agent, is five to ten years, i.e. 7.5 years on average, and that is how long it was since NATO bombing in 1999 to 2006 when a high jump in leukemia and lymphoma patients was registered. This jump is 70, 80% higher than in 2005, and when the total number of patients is added from 2006 to 2010, it is 80% to 90%. The number of patients from 2001 to 2005 is higher. Another thing, leukaemias and lymphomas account for only 5% of malignant diseases, while 95% are salty tumors, lungs, throats, breasts, uterus and colon. The latent period for solitary tumors is 10 to 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36071	Thank you. Just bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36072	Let me finish, one sentence. Finally, I would recommend that the commission monitor the work of the international congress of preventive medicine, which is organised every September at the Institute of Public Health of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, where data on malignant diseases in Serbia will certainly be presented, as well as the causes of their creation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36073	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word is Alexander Jerkov. She's not present. The word is Alexander Stevanović. He's not there. Nenad Constantinović. He's not there. Radoslav Milojic. He's not there. Vladimir Đuric, here's your colleague Đurić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36074	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, every time an issue related to Kosovo is discussed in this assembly, emotions are high. It would be better for us all to talk rationally, because Kosovo has been a major political topic in Serbia for decades, and this is a topic where the government is won, defended and lost. It would not be good to turn out that this point is put on the agenda to upset passions and abuse patriotic emotions and personal tragedies of people, so that political insinuators here are accused of treason for NATO lobbying and similar things. Finally, the supporter of the greater degree of approach to Serbia has one among the ruling majority MPs, except they are reluctant to publicly show it and I know that we all know it in this hall. It is also undeniable that we all agree that the bombing is unwarranted, unprecedented crime, the targeting of civilian targets, among other things, and in my city, which was shamelessly left without a single bridge and weeks without electricity and water, a city of over 350-400 thousand inhabitants at that time. Also, in a rational debate, there is no use for this society that anyone here calls for the conclusion of any agreement with the NATO Pact, because if it is bad to be a signator, then it is bad to be in power rather than to break up those agreements, while also boasting about the percentages of votes won and the supremacy in the Assembly, which is easy to break those agreements. It wouldn't be bad to hear what this commission's political goal is, because we're not a congressman or an alliance of physicists, we're a political body, and it wouldn't be bad, because the outcome of this commission is more or less known to everyone in advance. The damage to uranium, and even to the poor, is absolutely undeniable and no one in this room should have a dilemma and public health for all, regardless of political differences. But the discussion and the expected outcome of this commission's work suggest that perhaps the external policy of the ruling majority will be changed, so it would not be bad to say so, and it would be good to hear whether, let's say, the outcome of the commission's work will allow citizens to submit damages to the pests for their public health and whether the outcome of this commission and the state of Serbia's work will be such as to encourage citizens to file these lawsuits and to help them, which would be quite all right. It is certainly better to propose the establishment of a commission rather than a survey board because, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, experts are involved in the commission, and only the MPs in the poll committee. However, the problem with the proposal for a decision on its formation of the Parliament group "Free Members" sees in what the composition of the commission proposes only one member of the ruling majority and seems that we will have no influence on its composition and that we are forced in some way to support this commission, whose formation we want to support, without knowing in advance who will enter its composition. Some MPs have made it clear during the discussion that they already know its composition, we do not know, we see only in the decision, in the motion for a decision on what it says. In accordance with Article 68(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission is to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 68(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, it is prescribed that a decision on the establishment of a commission also determines its composition, in this sense in some way the proposal for a decision seems to be missing. It is for these reasons that there is a concern that this commission will not give the right effects, and so much is needed for citizens and hence is concerned that it will serve more propaganda than it does for fact-finding. Some data here are about how 15 tons of impoverished uranium represents 170 replicas of nuclear bombs dropped on Hiroshima, while being said not to panic. Whoever runs the Citizens' Protection Agency against ionic radiation and nuclear security of citizens, here, I'll add one piece of information, not to compare to the Japanese, it's inappropriate, the bomb dropped on Hiroshima wasn't nuclear, it was atomic, it had only 60 kilos of uranium in it, only 60 kilograms of uranium, just for comparison. Some more facts and questions. Why is the commission forming right now, why isn't it formed much earlier, and it had to be? Why have the UN and their Environment and Habitats Programme done research on pollution from NATO bombings in 1999? At that time, the government of this country, which was more or less the same as it is now, told them that there was no data on the impoverished uranium in Serbia's territory. It's in their report. There's no data. If the data were, and the UN is falsely saying they were gone, and the data was, why wasn't the commission formed immediately then? The same ruling majority could have done so in 1999 and this commission was due to investigate today. The Institute of Public Health, Batut, in its reports, found that we have an incidence of mid-risk cancer, but that we have high mortality and that the cause of cancer is better diagnostics, poor prevention, non-recognition of risk behavior, and I would expect our commission to deny "Bataut". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36075	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36076	I thank the MP for taking part in this debate on this agenda. I must procedurally explain to him that the composition of the commission cannot be found on the agenda until we get a full parliamentary approval by voting whether or not this Parliament wants to set up a commission at all, because the commission is not a committee, a commission is not a permanent body, nor a temporary working body, nor a subcommittee, the commission is something else entirely. That's what you and I know. This is the only proper way for the first parliament to approve such a commission to be approved, to publish the decision in "The Official Messenger", and then my proposal for the chairman of the commission to be Darko Laketic and to present him to the parliament who will be in his view in the commission. Let us not be insinuating the committees of our own who should reflect the picture of parliament at the time of the election and the election results, which is quite difficult now that many parliamentary groups have simply re-configured themselves, especially in opposition lines, new clubs have formed, etc., but the commission is something completely different and has completely different goals than the Committees we have foreseen for the Rules of Procedure. The Commission is not a political body, as you wanted to say here. Anyone who would get a little out of the vote says that this is now some kind of politics and that this is a political body and already in advance knows what this commission is going to do, already in advance knows what the results of 2020 are going to be. Here's what I'm going to tell you, as a proponent of this decision, I don't know. I don't know that, and I can't have any part of the debate with you who already know everything. You know it wasn't, I don't mean you personally, the result of the bombing by human health or the environment. Well, I can't say that. Not only because I am in some sense a layman, but because I can simply say that only the relevant factors and institutions, scientific, military and many others, and no one in this country has ever dealt with it this way. So, first the commission and then we'll discuss the committee. Let me tell you, our role model is absolutely the way the parliament of the Republic of Italy worked. We have so far had no experience with the work of committees to be composed of several MPs, a small operating body that will call certain people or representatives of scientific institutions, Serbia's armies, foreigners, journalists, etc. to make statements and collect documentation. We do not have such experiences and we are based on a state that has been doing so in several Italian parliaments, and at the head of each commission, regardless of the mandates, he was Senator Skanu. It was one very small body, I think there were five of them, and of course it wasn't a picture of Parliament because it wasn't the goal either. What's the point, you've asked again several times. The goal is, I have to repeat the unfaithful Toms, the truth. That's the aim of this committee. There has been a lot of talk since we opened the topic, a lot of comments "yes", mostly, but also those who want to relitatise this topic and know everything in advance, but it seems that by 2018 they didn't have the courage to say anything in advance and think that there were no consequences. Of course, each of us has a goal, because this is also a humanitarian issue. This is not a humanitarian issue affecting only citizens living in Serbia, representing the majority Serb people. This is something that must interest members of the Albanian people living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. This is good, to get relevant data on whether the health of all of us here who have been bombed and might be good and interesting that even the temporary authorities in Pristina may be parallel, if they have the courage, create a commission like this and see what kind of data they would come up with if they were serious, essential and contentiously concerned with the question. At first and finally, we all live together in the Republic of Serbia. The entire territory of Yugoslavia has been bombed. If I'm not mistaken, we're still living in the Republic of Serbia and it's one of the temporary authorities in Pristina, who must be interested in what we're going to start doing. Will Serbia's foreign policy change due to the first preliminary report in 2020? It's very interesting to link the results of a report that we don't know how we're going to get, whether it's going to direct us to change foreign policy. I see Italy hasn't changed its foreign policy. Not even Belgium has changed its foreign policy. No one changed their foreign policy, and imagine, they had the courage to face it. It may be even harder for them, they are members of the NATO Pact. They were also investigating an even greater degree of responsibility for their governments for sending soldiers of Italian, Belgian and other in Kosovo territory and Metohija to serve without any protection, who were ill, who apparently had such data, died of it and, of course, in Italy there are strong verdicts against their governments, because the Ministry of Defence sent them to serve in territory, which was obviously polluted. A big increase in the sick soldiers, a high mortality rate, especially Italian ones, I don't know why, I don't want to go into parts of their report, we're not questioning the health of their soldiers, but something like that, but their report is really helping us. The foreign policy of one state is something else, and we are looking for the truth because of our citizens. Indeed, let's stop with this respect and the malignancy of whether or not I run the Atomic Energy Agency and protect ionizing radiation. Dear colleagues, I don't run that agency. That agency is run by a director, this agency is run by professional people, and it does not address at all those questions that you so easily like to talk about. Please see only what this agency does. Am I the chairman of the board of directors? Yeah, I don't see what's at stake here at all, and I'd like to ask that we no longer discuss it. If I were to draw examples that serious institutions were led by people who don't even have colleges, any character, they'd go far, and again the arguments would be on my side, because a lawyer and a lawyer could run boards, and you know what boards do. I'm doing it pretty well. The agency is very pleased. For example, many protocols have been chamomile here and haven't been ratified for 15 years since they were signed in this House, when I became chairman of the Management Board, I made the greatest effort to make it appear and that Serbia has ratified it. That's my contribution. I don't do physics, I don't do professional things either, but as someone who's a lawyer, who's a politician for 28 years, I guess I know I'm studying paperwork and I can use it the right way when we need it. After all, it would be like now we would argue whether journalists can make authorial shows on this subject, and they are not physicists, and they have attitudes and they argue with guests who are scientists, who are generals, who have studied this issue, and they don't even let them speak, because they know everything, and they're not physicists. So it's not forbidden to deal with one subject without being in the profession? It is indeed one nonsens, and Parliament should rebel against such a way of thinking, which in this context is little, little, so someone honors you. He says to the Secretary of Defense - you're not a professional soldier, at least, really? There's nothing in democratic systems to say what a politician is going to do in the portfolio of a government but have to be a professional? So the multi-party system and policy-making and elections should be abolished, and this should become professional associations, which is not the essence of parliament? The right place is for parliament to establish this. We couldn't have done it sooner. Wait, you're saying something that isn't in 2001? You can't build a commission in 1999. Dear colleague, we were bombed in 1999. Well, who makes tomorrow morning's commission? So, what happened in 2000? The real question is, if you want to be honest, to have an open debate, not to look at it alone – you, you're over, it doesn't lead to anything, why isn't it formed from 2000 to 2012? It's 12 years. From 1999 to 2000, from bombing to government change is less than a 12-year period. Ask your colleagues whose lines you're sitting in and you're probably sitting, what they've been doing for 12 years, why they haven't formed a commission like this, what's stopping them? Were they afraid of something? Will someone warn them? They won't be able to travel? What, nobody wants to talk to them? Don't the members of these parties get sick, have any dilemmas when they wake up in the morning and hear that this one, and this one, and this one from around them, got sick or died? You think they don't think it's possible that we're all bombed together by poor uranium? Do you think the Albanian in those areas that we're talking about today has no such dilemma? I'm convinced he does, no matter how politically he thinks. So the question is, why didn't you, when did you? No, it's good, and I don't blame them for not forming it until 2012. They have their own political reasons and they didn't want to or shouldn't if they thought they were forming it, but let's now, in 2018, not be our biggest argument – and what are you not this year or not last month, what are you right now? I would really like to see at the end of our debate, no matter what our arguments are, what we're going to make here, yet vote for this motion decision and support that decision not because I suggested it, I would support it for anyone to support it in this House, and to allow it to start working. I guarantee that this commission will work seriously, that we'll hear and see the different documentation that speaks in favor of pollution, but even if it wasn't, and we hear it, that someone is trying to explain that the poored uranium is something healthy and something good, I'm not going to take it into account, I have some layman's opinion that they're wrong, but good, but let them start working and run these debates when we get the first report, to see what kind of data they've come from. We started because of colleagues who did so in the NATO Pact Member States and because we came to the research of independent journalists who, again, are not from our country, are not from this territory, because of the real report you called for, but the real report from 2001, the United Nations led by Senegal, I mean Kante, because that real report has never been published by the UN, but there are people who obviously have this report and the UN have this first report. I can't believe there's a conspiracy theory and they destroyed the UN report and in 2001 it was he who was the head of the UNEP's first mission, he came up with frightening data. Well, it's not a Serbian conspiracy, so now that we're doing something against others, we're not judging anyone. We're just gonna use this committee to look for the truth and that's good. It's good for us, it's good for countries in the environment and it's good for our future. We have to cooperate. You know well that at least this parliament is working well with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and we will not change that co-operation. We have our delegation there. The president of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly feels like he's not even going home anymore, because he's been in this building a couple of times for the past few months, as far as I know. Last time a few days ago, I didn't even know he was our guest of honor. We are working well with the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB, and I don't see what this commission would have to spoil, except that it might be interested, perhaps some parliamentarians from their countries to participate in our work, if respected members of the commission invite them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36077	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36078	Thank you. I don't mind a lawyer running a management body at the Agency responsible for the nuclear security of citizens, that's all right, but incorrect data relativates the importance of the commission can create unnecessary panic if they are delivered. The question I didn't get an answer to was, in 1999, did we have data on the poor uranium that was dumped on the territory of the then-Yugoslavia or did we not have any data? I'm talking about the 1999 UNEP and HABITAT report. In doing so, why was the commission not already formed by this state, if UNEP and HABITAT could send several mobile laboratories and dozens of experts in 1999 and in his report already found four urban critical points in the territory of the Republic of Serbia; Novi now, Panchevo, Kragujevac and Bor? Why didn't we have the data back then, and why could we, like them, not have been able to form a commission at the time? Of course, the question also applies to all subsequent authorities, why did they not do so until the day of today, and then of course the question – why is it that now that it is not and now suddenly there is an emergency procedure? So, I will repeat, I expect that the Commission fully relativises the findings of Batuta, which finds that the increased incidence of cancer is due to better coverage and greater disciplines in reporting malignant diseases and poorer application of the experiences of developed countries, and notes that at the rate of disease, we belong to medium risk countries, and at the rate of mortality, therefore the failure of treatment, we are among the worst. I would expect the commission to deny the Batut which attributes the incidence of cancer to some other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36079	Thank you. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36080	Thank you very much. You know, uh, I can't argue with you because you're as layman as I am. (Vladimir Djuric: No, I'm a physicist. You're still a layman, of course. Just because someone finishes physics doesn't mean they're so professional that they can replace this commission's work. Why do I say you're a layman? Because only the layman could say – why didn't you set up a commission because in 1999 there was one report and on the basis of that report, a commission had to be formed immediately and it concluded what was going on. Have you even read what we suggest? We study the consequences. There's no effect on the study after a month of the bombing. Do you know how many Italian parliamentarians have worked, how long, to reach one relevant report presented to their public, presented to Parliament and to all members of the European Parliament? A month, two days from the stay of their troops on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Thirteen years. Thirteen years to get a real report. Not a report of a statement that we here are going to politically crash and argue. From 2005 to 2018, this is how you do it seriously. It is not a report that will be fully relevant to what we will get in 2020. First preliminary for what? It is normal for us to expect the end of our term of office in 2020 and that this work will continue to be done by another assembly. If someone really thinks they're getting serious results from this commission's work, then they sure as hell won't discuss what you didn't do after a month of bombing made a commission. So it took the Italians 13 years, and it would take us 15 days. So, he won't take this part of the commission seriously, and I'll take this part of your discussion as politics so that something you say someone didn't want. To the soul, after the bombing itself, there was a lot of other work, and you know it yourself, while something cannot be studied a month after it started, because it would be really unserious and it would actually be a cover-up of the true state of things. You don't want to comment obviously because it doesn't work for you. The report from the head of the first UNEP mission, the UN, that's why I don't know this man, I can't politically influence him, and I know he's from Senegal. We will try to find him, we hope that he is no longer in the system of some international organisations and that he may be able to help us search for the truth because his text of the UN report has never been published in 2001, but his parts have been leaked to the public thanks to exactly the American journalist, an independent American journalist who follows UN work in Geneva and who managed to publish the report in Geneva's daily "Kurje". I can tell you the name of the report, you can find it in French and English. The name of his article based on the report and where it is true, here I pulled it out, "Mon diplomat" published the part and derived it correctly, all the parts of his report that were never published, and they are very interesting. It is an alarming report on the consequences of the Yugoslav bombing, and it was called "Toxins the UN will not see". We're looking for that report, and we might be able to cross-reference with these reports that you have. So, it's interesting why part of the report was decided not to publish at all and to report on environmental horror. They studied, however, UNEP studies the impact on the environment. So it's noted that it's an environmental horror. It's really one serious grade that we can't go over just like that. They say in that report, I will now try to translate and quote you quickly, as in Yugoslavia the most common blowing of north-west winds means that pollution goes from Yugoslavia to Hungary, Germany, Croatia, Bosnia, Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, etc. What's really important is that after that, you weren't in the afternoon when I said so, followed by several other teams and groups of foreigners who were designated by the UN to give some more recent reports. Here, your favorite year in the fall of 1999, the UN founded a Balkan task force, headed by former Finnish Minister Peka Havisto and they gave a report, the original version, on the 72nd page. Of that 72 pages, only two were magically published, since these 70 are very negative data. On 16 February 2001, the report was published and concluded that the so-called Kosovo had been thrown into it. Dirty uranium. I'm sorry if my termology is not perfect, as with those who do so, but in the layman's dictionary that you understand me, to understand me, to be understood by the citizens of Serbia, it's simple, and we can't erase it now, without the intention of deciding that anyone here is right, both, now we are turning our head from the UN report, which there is, I think, three or four so far, who are talking about a negative situation in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and in the territory of KIM, as regards the consequences of this bombing and the consequences of the lives of the citizens of this country, whether they're Serbian or Albanians, because when someone is bombed it doesn't choose by nationality who gets sick later, to get cancer, to get diabetes, how they started talking these days, and to get some other severe diseases. It would be really interesting if the temporary authorities in the KIM territory were to go our way and seek truth for the benefit of citizens living in that territory and Albanian nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36081	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. We're closing a circle of replicas. You really don't have any argument, there's no basis for replica, it's all explained to you. (Vladimir Djuric: Rules of Procedure. No, you can't choose. We don't have a menu here, we have a Rules of Procedure to respect. In doing so, you failed your colleague Gojkovic. You are not a physicist. You are a graduate engineer. We're moving on. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36082	Thank you. In my previous address, I spoke of the need to learn the difference between propaganda and facts, and this remains as a claim and as a need for a very simple reason. The idea of a commission proposed by counterpart Laketic for the president, who will propose a small composition of operational five or six, as we have heard, is to establish a causal link between the sites where the missiles were dropped with the impoverished uranium and the development of different types of disease in the population, as well as the effects on the environment, land, water and air. Those places on Kosovo's territory are 81, on other parts of Serbia's nine, in Montenegro one. How do we determine this causal-consequential relationship? By having a verifiable scientific methodology to prove the hypothesis that is acceptable to everyone here, clearly, it doesn't seem necessary to prove that there is a direct causal link between a missile with an impoverished uranium and the number and type of disease in the population. This kind of research, methodologically, must be such that the evidence is unequivocal, because this is a committee for the sake of truth, to be verifiable, and that every time it is possible to repeat evidence in favour of the hypothesis that the poored uranium has produced lasting effects on human health. In the opening part, I also welcomed this decision for one, perhaps for many, unusual reason. Although Serbia does not have direct and direct jurisdiction over Kosovo's territory, the largest number of people living in Kosovo today is the Albanian population, and it is good that Serbia will present the truth about what damage was done to missiles with poor uranium, I hope, to the Albanian population. More importantly, the first victims are members of the military, police and security forces of Serbia, to which the truth should also be presented, irrefutablely determined about the causal link of any form of disease and poor uranium. It's no problem here to prove that the poored uranium is chemically extremely harmful, radiologically less but radiologically. That's what a demostrade is. It is an irrefutable fact, nor is this commission founded to prove that uranium is harmful. Of course it is. This commission needs to prove a special case. My motive to talk about the need to distinguish propaganda and the facts is because I'm for facts, for the truth that we lack and that always seems powerless in front of propaganda. I'm going to share a small level of concern with you because of the undivided attitude that the damage to the bombing is caused by people, land, water and air. That will be believed by all people living in Serbia. Everyone here will believe that. It is obvious to all of us that the damage is such that we have an immeasurable number of cancer patients, that we have the consequences of the toxic fact of uranium and that it is the state of things in our country. It's an undivided belief. What's the problem with that? Share it or not, I expect Mr. Laketić to determine the truth and facts about the causal link to these sites where the missiles with the poored uranium were thrown away. The problem is that news of such a spirit of our discussion in the media will go aside or two later or later on about news where we are also rightly in favour of raising birth. The problem is that the news that we're polluted, poisoned, toxic country because of the bombing will go aside or two with news that we're talking about the need for the economy to develop in this country, to come to investors and to develop what needs to be developed in order for society to progress, not to stagnate. The problem is that this news, and unfortunately we're already witnessing a tabloid interpretation of what's being said in this room, which I don't consider responsible for any of us, but politics is perception... What the newspaper says is that we claim that it has been found here is not determined, but rather the commission's job to be chaired by Mr. Laketic, which I repeat, is a mistake. We should have arranged for someone from the opposition to do it. It's such a simple state of affairs, not because it's similar to the survey board, but because we really want to determine the truth. These are minor or larger damages that we will be dealing with, all of us who will ask how polluted you are, how many of you are sick, how many children will be born with deformities, how much fertility will be reduced, how many people will die before you might happily and long live if it wasn't for NATO bombing. If we really want the commission to serve the purpose of doing those two years, 10 or 15, my request is to be very careful with the presentation of our beliefs and attitudes that we have the right to repeat the undefeated, obvious facts that the poored uranium is chemically toxic and harmful and with our patience to collect all documents that have not been published so far, with the testimony of all the people who have not testified so far, we really offer undeniable verifiable and evidence facts. If we do not act like this within the Commission, we will suffer one unnecessary and additional damage from our sincere desire to establish the truth and to have some recommendations and conclusions. And I ended up with my previous attitude. If the conclusions are not that Serbia is the one that is seeking a ban on UN missiles with impoverished uranium, if the conclusion is not to ratify the convention on the ban on cassat bombs, if the conclusion is not clear information, above all, members of the military and police and security forces of Serbia and the conclusion that everything we have come to is shared with everyone in Pristina, then we will miss the basic idea of this commission, which is true and facts against every propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36083	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36084	Thank you. Just a moment to look back at the exposure we've heard. It has been repeated several times yesterday in your discussion, as my colleagues met me and today is the word "propaganda", "propaganda". I'm very worried about that thesis you're trying to get through more or less skillfully, that by forming this commission, maybe someone is going to do some kind of propaganda. I can reassure you immediately and disprove you a little bit of your thesis, because then it turns out that whoever didn't want to engage in such an important question also used his inaction for some political propaganda, so that he wouldn't disturb us or the people abroad, as you said. Perhaps, I don't know, so you already know what the conclusions of this commission will look like, perhaps, that there have been these terrible consequences for the lives of our citizens, citizens in our immediate or further surroundings and the consequences of environmental pollution. If they asked me if we should face it, if they were the results of the commission in the first preliminary report, with the devastating data, or if we were to hide it for the sake of looking into the future, for the sake of not scaring someone from countries who weren't afraid to bomb us or to scare someone who was already scared enough here, because there's no real truth, the right to tell you, I don't have any dilemma. I'm more about really facing the consequences of this bombing, to bravely face everyone, whether we believe there was pollution, whether we believe in the the thesis that the poor uranium put the lives of Italian soldiers, Belgian soldiers and others at risk. Even Italian citizens, because I recommend you look at this report, you have it on the site of the Italian Parliament, Italian citizens living around bases where the planes that bombed us took off. They were not afraid that they would scare other citizens who came, say, in Sicily, or someone who would invest in that country, but showed civil courage, because they represent an ordinary Italian citizen who feels that in that territory where Italian bases have flown to Yugoslavia, there are serious problems and that they also suffer their citizens, not only those soldiers who came to the KIM territory, and they say the Western Balkans. They have very wide guard, but they also have research into similar consequences that Italian soldiers who have served in other countries around the world have. They weren't really afraid of it, and neither are we. There will be no problems, because people will work seriously in the same way and methodology as MP Skana and MP Baldrin and three others. It was a small board of five. When a big commission is built, there can be no results. So neither positive nor negative, which is why it is a commission, not a committee of MPs. Why did I suggest Dr. Dark Laketic? I suggested Dr. Darko Laketić, because he's been dealing with this issue for months and months, without any need to make propaganda, hidden far from the eyes of the public. When he was able to reach this report, he spoke with MP Skanu, and he also faced professionally with numerous indications that his patients were getting sick and dying of this bombing, he came to me in the cabinet and who else could lead the commission. Whether it's the government or the opposition, I don't care if this person is seriously concerned with this issue, without any politics, without spreading the story of who's to blame, whether it's NATO or anyone else. It's always my fault whoever comes up with the idea of solving the problem by bombing. What applies to Yugoslavia, or Serbia, I will not give up on this way of thinking, when they bomb other countries equally in the world. Bombing is no solution. Bombing is a demonstration of force, bombing is a way of destroying one state, economically destroying it, killing many people, and then what are we going to do with what kind of solution comes into the world after the bombing? I think the crime is the number one bombing, only then using poor uranium, which comes to mind, says -- how are we going to solve the crisis in this part of the world, ingeniously, we're going to bomb them. We're going to bomb them for 78 days, we're going to kill them, we're going to take them down from the north state, all the way to Kim territory. I will always have in front of me day and night, as long as I live, what happened in Vietnam, that kid who runs naked, that famous poster that our generation watched almost every day, where that kid has the inscription "why". I still don't understand why. What was the aim of this bombing? To reverse Serbia and Yugoslavia for decades and tens of years, and now to be touched and said: excellent, economic progress. If it hadn't been for the bombing, we would have made much better economic progress. That should be our answer. We parliamentarians are not diplomats, we don't have to talk in gloves, that's what our diplomats should do, that's what those who lead our country, we're representatives of ordinary people here. When they tell us on the street – ask you why it is and that, we should do it. So this commission is being set up and I'm telling you, don't let them do their part of the job whether we agree or not, that we don't threaten them with it, because that's what we get pucks for, whenever we have some criticism in their way of working or trying to challenge sensationalism, to sell the paper a little bit more. That's why I'm telling you, Darko Laketić is a serious man, a serious MP, and I am convinced that he will meet the needs of all major parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they support the work of the government or the opposition, to be involved in this small team. I'm convinced of that and I'm waiting for his proposal, but I trust him, and I will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36085	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lazanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36086	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what member of the Rules of Procedure, but please sort it out as you wish...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36087	You must, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36088	Article 207. In fact, there's an attempt here to get some things divorced, because there's a connection between things that don't connect. In fact, it has been said here previously that when the commission forms its report that we should make an effort to ratify this parliament's agreement to ban the use of tape guns, tape ammunition. Let me tell you right now, according to international agreements, tape ammunition is forbidden only for use against civilians, for military purposes, tape ammunition is allowed. There is no international convention that prohibits the use of tape ammunition for military purposes. The fact that we felt all the tragic consequences of the use of cluster ammunition in our skin in 1999, which was then called new euphemism, "collateral damage", that's another thing. So no great force has given up using tape ammunition. Our army, especially the Air Force, opposes the ratification of the Agreement on the Ban of Casset Ammunition, because what we had in the Air Force of Battle Agents, the bombs that have tape ammunition, is actually the most effective weapon with which our fighter-bomber aircraft are armed. So this need, and if the intention to deprive our air force of cluster combat means is realized, significantly diminishes our army's fighting ability. I repeat, it's a matter of use, tape ammunition under international rules is not prohibited for military use. There's only a provision that it's forbidden to use against civilians. And, I pray that when a tape ammunition is mentioned in this House, that it is strictly taken care of, not that things are connected, which in themselves cannot be connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36089	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Mihajlo Jokic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36090	Article 104. I've heard here many times that eight places have been used with poor uranium. That information that eight places outside of KIM were used, nobody knows that. That information is certainly not true. Because after three, four days of bombing Yugoslavia, that bombing got out of hand. So the first three, four days we read, followed, that was commission. So there was a group of people who... After three, four days when Yugoslavia didn't capitulate, then only America did. It was just one man doing it and it was a mess. So, to say that only eight places outside of KiM have been used poor uranium is a dangerous thesis. So it's not exactly a fort. Let's say, in Valjev, Krusik was shot nine times, 71 missiles and used poor uranium because it was proven. In Valjev there is a man, this is Dr. Zoran Zivkovic, a doctor of nuclear medicine, who dealt with it statistically. So I don't know when you were counting and you got to that number eight, did you count that Valjevo, so, Krusik, was shot with poor uranium. I ask you that before this examination begins and the determination of facts, because this is primarily the determination of facts, this is primarily statistics, this is a correlation, here one member of the commission should also be a mathematician, a statisticist, who will calculate the correlation coefficients between the phenomena and the characteristics that interest us. So let's not say in advance something that we've read, which is part of the propaganda and what is an individual's opinion, which is not officially verified. That's what I'm telling you on behalf of Valev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36091	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36092	Replica, if I may, Mr. Lazansky misunderstood. Cassette bombs also kill when they fall on Serbia and kill when they fall on any other country. Missiles with impoverished uranium kill where they've been dumped, since impact and explosion, it's pointless to talk about breathing in that location, because you're already dead. They kill as well as whether they're in the Persian Gulf, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, wherever they are. When I say that my advocate for Serbia's initiative is to ban missiles with poor uranium, I stand behind it. Yeah, I know a lot of the military industry is gonna suffer a lot when that happens, but a lot of people are gonna live. I fully understand the interest of the military industry, I have respect for the knowers, but I care for the living. Wherever they are killed by a missile with an impoverished uranium, and I know exactly why four times in the UN cannot be agreed that the missiles with the impoverished uranium are such as to be classified as the fighting means to be banned, as once and for all, there have been battles to ban war poisons after World War I. I like the same thing about tape bombs. I know exactly what the problem is in Serbia and I know that Serbia will never ratify it and I have a full understanding of the reasons. But I can't stop fighting for the tape bombs to fall anywhere, to anyone, I can't, and I know exactly what they're making. So I hope we've cleared the misunderstanding when it comes to my initiatives to ban both types of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36093	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36094	Just to ask if all the authorities have used it?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36095	No, there's a few of them who have some time.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36096	I'm giving you a head start.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36097	Thank you very much. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36098	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been taking part in this debate for two days. I've heard a lot of things. As I said at the beginning, I will never return to that again, although I have pointed out twice, me and my colleagues support the formation of this commission of course. I have no problem, no fear, no fear, no fear, no doubt of any consequence to support its formation and put an ad act into that thing. So I also don't have a reservation on the proposal for my colleague, Laketic, to be in charge of her and to propose members. I have only appealed twice that, I am sure that he will respect it, not only because I say so, but because logic is such that it would be wise, that although it is not a committee of inquiry and that it does not have a formal obligation, it will be kept in mind that MPs from the ranks of the government and the opposition also participate in the commission, and eventually at the time of the report being submitted, the preliminary report of the commission will be the second assembly of parliament and perhaps a different distribution of power and opposition. So, I'm afraid with that, I'm saying I don't have any reserves, but I do, as I support, believe it or not, most of the discussions we've heard here in these two days. I even resented some of my fellow opposition colleagues because I thought that a few of them, not all, away from that, might not be careful enough and haven't responded sufficiently to the subject we have. As I said, politics should be avoided when it comes to such an important and sensitive subject, which not only has an impact on the lives of citizens, any decision that is directly or indirectly affects the lives of citizens, which is as if we were never conscious enough, given how we conduct these debates, but this is about additional sensitivity, because we are looked at or people who are suffering from the most severe diseases, and I don't mean only malignancies, or have someone in the family who is sick and which is particularly interested in this topic. So it was very important to approach this topic without sensationalism and without politics and without, of course, the intention to cover things up. We must find that measure, as the commission in its work must find that measure, to be both open and brave, but not to succumb to temptation, to cover up and reduce the consequences, or to dramatize, so that it is not a paradoxical conclusion that the maltenes of any serious illness every thought and connection to the consequences of the bombing. I said my position. I'm sure those positions exist, as most people in this room think, and probably most of the citizens watching us. About these statistics, first of all, as you could conclude, the figures are quite different, most of them alarming, but they're quite different and they're not entirely compatible. That's, as I see it, a reason more for forming a commission. Regardless of whether someone takes it with a desire to increase or dramaticly or to reduce perhaps the consequences of NATO bombing, we see that percent mortality, disease, etc. They vary terribly, and it is particularly difficult to determine clearly this causal-consequential relationship. After all, in my family, I have larger cases of the most severe diseases and also serious suspicions and indications that this has something to do with the effects of the bombing. That is why we may have been able to do even more, although there has been an effort among most MPs, we may stay away from these politicizations, although we as a congregation and as MPs can never completely escape from it. What's worrying, when it comes to these numbers, and I have to say, it's not the percentage of those who are sick, although it is on the rise, but it can be interpreted in different ways and different causes, but it's particularly worrying that the growing percentage of young people is, and that's something that one of the colleagues has already said, but the increasing percentage of young people who are suffering from the most severe diseases. But it'll be a commission. I have urged to make sure that it is politically diverse and colorful, and I think it would be a good idea that the number of members of that committee would not be too small, as well as too large, about seven, eight, up to a dozen members. I think that would be optimal. I specifically urged that the invitation to participate in the work also be given to institutions, I stress, both institutions and individuals who have advocated, who have so far been publicly advertised in one direction or another, therefore, and those who felt that these consequences were not so great, as well as those who claim and prove that the consequences were serious and difficult. By the way, some of the articles or some of the authors mentioned here, which proved the serious consequences of the bombing with the impoverished uranium, but also otherwise, were published on the pages and on the portal of New Serbian Political Thoughts. What I still have to say in the end, as well as a warning and a desire to cheat or to be denied in this respect, is that there remains a dilemma about the real consequences of today's and yesterday's discussion. The commission will be formed, that's fine. Why now, why not before? Better late than ever. That's where I agree, too. The fact is that this ruling majority too had five or six years to do so and the legitimate question is, don't let anyone get angry, it's a legitimate question why they're going with it right now. The fact is that this report, too, is likely to have encouraged Italians in some way and encouraged such an initiative, and that is something that has come in handy. However, I must say, regardless of what is claimed not to prejudge the outcome and I also don't know what will be the final outcome of the commission's work, yet most of the discussions we've heard these two days I think it would have to have political consequences right now, not waiting for the outcome. Most of the debaters in the ruling coalition were such, i.e. attitudes were such that they would require a certain shift, at least a minimal shift, to say, to the right, both physically and geographically, and perhaps politically, because it's hard to think, really, dear colleagues, and to say everything that you or what the vast majority of you have said here in parliament, which I am stressing, I am very much agreeing these two days, and will remain in the political positions you represent or represented by this ruling majority. Here it is respected, little in the illusions, and sometimes directly, to some opposition MPs who support the bombing, how they blame Serbia or Serbia's government for the bombing, genocide and the like, while NATO's largest lobbyists sit in the ranks of the ruling majority, and that there are those who advocate Serbia's entry into NATO or at least the deepest possible NATO integration. On the side that, frankly, the orientation towards EU membership would be defined at least under question, given that it is more than the same countries that bombed us and are members of NATO, which are also members of the EU. It won't be that someone bombed us as a NATO member, but he didn't bomb us as an EU member. From Germany, through France, Great Britain and other NATO and the EU. In that sense, I mean, we'll hear the results, but right now we should face one political consequence of this discussion. The political consequence of this discussion is that it is difficult for the government's policy and these ruling majority to remain the same after these two days, because I don't think that would be consistent and would arouse suspicion that this might have been done directly or indirectly intending to maybe distract themselves from some other topics, that perhaps cover up the fact that yesterday in Sofia was handled twice or at least twice by the president of Serbia with the president of so-called. the Republic of Kosovo, etc. I hope it's too serious for someone to play with and do it just for some propaganda effect. So I'm telling you, I'm happy to repent and self-critical through, I don't know, a year or two days. I would hate for the formation of this commission to cover the dust, snow, rosemarine and chess, and it turns out it was done with a one-time effect, for some foreign policy or internal political purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36099	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36100	Thank you very much. I expected the debate on this subject to be shorter. As far as I can tell, everyone's in favour of forming a commission. Of course there are reasons, I said in my first address, there is no doubt, but after this debate I began to fear whether there is one serious intention to do something, whether it goes with good intentions, or what some here on both sides represent as propaganda. So, Serbia's bombing has no excuse, no excuse, no legal, no political, no moral, no one, no matter what power it was back then. The government was insane, but that doesn't justify bombing. She was abnormal in every sense of that word, but that still doesn't justify bombing. There will never be any justification for what happened in Serbia in those 70 and a few days in 1999, no justification. Were there commissions dealing with the impact of the poor uranium? Yes, there were. Are their findings unique, did they all come to the same conclusion? No, they're not. Does doing this in 2001 mean not doing it in 2018? Of course not. Of course something's changed with those findings. It's not the same effect anything 17 years ago and today. Therefore, there is no dilemma whether a commission should be formed, I repeat the last time, nor is there any justification for the bombing of Serbia-Montenegro in 1999, with agreement with those who have defined the then rule, as I have already said, that I am not wasting those ugly words again. So, I'll vote to form a commission. I hope the vote is now and we won't have to gather an hour, two or five hours to vote. I expect the composition of the commission to be such that it does not raise any doubt about the commission's intention. I'm going to vote for the commission, no matter who's in it now, but I'm going to express my suspicion that there's no clean business here if, say, I'm not on that committee. As far as I know, it's something that's being done, not something that's gonna make someone cry, and that's, of course, working for the pay we usually receive as MPs. So there's no new material effect. But if that commission is made to be experts among MPs, then I say immediately that it will be thrown away time, and most likely some money besides that time. Serbia needs to talk about things that are discriminatory, about which there is a dilemma, precisely that this home, that this place, the only political place in any country, and also in Serbia, where directly the authorities and the opposition, where they are, at least by law and constitution, the representatives of the people, that these differences do not overcome some rotten compromise, but that through the confrontation of facts and arguments, there will be something that will be a decision, a conclusion, a solution, a declaration, but which, when it comes out of here, will convince the largest number of citizens of Serbia, regardless of who voted in the previous elections, in that what we adopted is true. Of course they should be experts in the whole process of the commission's work, but not experts among MPs. Who's the expert on poor uranium here? Who? Of course, no one. Politicians, MPs, including ministers are laymen, they are there as political factors and not as experts in some areas, and that is clear. No one has been elected here because he is an expert, and no one is a minister because he is an expert in an area, but because it is the place of political decision and there should be politicians. And that expert part of every expertise and work of any commission should be done by experts. And that's what I said, and in selecting experts for that expert part of the commission, you have to choose both those who had one conclusion and those who had the opposite conclusion, so let's see through one new, joint search of facts, whether the waist can come to the conclusion. Again, it's not a question of whether the bombing was justified. It's not. It's not a question of whether the poored uranium is healthy or not, of course it's not healthy. It is certain that there are consequences, only the question of how to make these consequences as little as possible. I hope the waist has already done its part of the job. But, of course, there is also the importance of a political assessment, what the use of such a means, above all I mean by the impoverished uranium but, of course, the consequences of these classic bombs by hitting tanks with carcinogenic or toxic or in some third way dangerous material. As we do not have, unfortunately, a list of people who were killed during the bombing, as we do not have, unfortunately, a list of people who died from this country in the 1990s wars that Serbia allegedly did not lead but died, so we should not allow after this commission and this debate to come to our conclusion – neither there nor here. I repeat, we are not estimating the political value of what happened in 1999, we are estimating the consequences of the people who live here, and of those who live here today, and of future generations. I think we should be happy, so I'm not getting into the Commission's findings, but if that commission, that expert part of the commission, finds that the poor uranium doesn't produce any greater health hazards, we should be happy, not unhappy if it's such a conclusion. And we should be unhappy if the commission comes to the conclusion that it's not just people dying, it's going to die in the next generations. And it's a human relationship that, of course, has its own political connotation, but we're primarily people who need to have that relationship with what's going on. There are so many topics in Serbia that we can argue about, that we can insult each other, if anything, to honor ourselves with insults, to kill ourselves with self-patriotism, so many other topics, but let's not play with these things about the health of this people and the future of Serbia's citizens. Even in the morning, I've been listening to a drill in the chest of all sorts of patriots. There are people who can follow the session through the monitors and there are people who are trained enough not to win, and these are the people who shouldn't prove their patriotism. And on behalf of these people, I say to you -- let's finish this debate, choose a commission that will be such that its composition guarantees that what it concludes will be convincing for the majority of Serbian citizens and move on to other topics that are also important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36101	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36102	I thank the chairman. At the end, or in the final conclusions, I would only make one thing out, if it were very difficult for me to listen in these two days to discuss all your personal experiences and the consequences of the bombing. Everyone put it out in their own way. Someone participated directly in the struggles in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, someone was a doctor at the time, I was a child, but at that time we all experienced the consequences of the bombing in our own way and today we live them. And in that sense, it is important to form a commission, among other things, to examine the impact of bombing alone, the comprehensive bombing, not just the bombing of the poor uranium, left all of us? What worries me from these exposures is that, unfortunately, I have not been able to figure out what the ultimate goal of this commission is? Is it because we've been bombarded with poor uranium, or what the consequences will leave to people's health and environmental protection, or is it actually a matter of turning them off from some others, I can't say more important topics because this topic is extremely important, but it seems to me that, after that, almost 20 years, this, unfortunately, has only served to reverse the subject. I did not experience, or take the necessary seriousness in the debate itself, nor from the ruling majority, unfortunately, any of the representatives of the opposition for the simple reason that this politics is being seen, as the propaganda that is being carried out in all this has been respected. I am sorry that we have ignored the research that has been made and which has been published by the Institute of Batut. I am sorry that we are neglecting our opinions and demeaning the opinions of fellow Members of Parliament, who apparently have greater knowledge than some other MPs in the National Assembly. The Free Members Group will certainly advocate the formation of this commission for the simple reason why we understand the need and necessity to give citizens confidence in the work of the National Assembly. What worries me is a saying that, "If you want something to be resolved, feel free to form a commission and then you certainly won't solve it." He's worried we'll end up with such a conclusion. Let's take as much time as we need. Let's hire the best people between us to form this committee. Let's not limit ourselves to just five MPs. Let us ask the profession, let us ask scientists whom we have, thank God, in abundance. Let us ask them to help us to clarify this subject once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36103	Thank you, colleague. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36104	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, we have heard a serious reasoned debate, many facts on the subject of the NATO pact's criminal bombing, despite some sparks and leaps, some insubstantial assessments, I am pleased that, as the National Assembly, we have managed to overcome party divisions and agree on the necessity of forming this commission, and this is a good basis for starting the commission's work. She'll have a very difficult job ahead of her. We need to prove something that many will dispute, something that loses the power of evidence with time, so we need to engage all of our scientific potentials, the institutes that have dealt with it, there were a lot of people who at the time of the bombing measured the level of radiation in places where NATO bombs were falling, endangering their own health. All this knowledge, all these experiences, all these analyses, many scientific papers the commission should consider, that it also hires foreign experts as possible, that those who did reports like Bakara and Kante, and reports hidden, then at the world level engages to be witnesses, credible, with references. The Serbian Progressive Party provides full support for the commission's work. I repeat once again that we believe that my colleague Laketic will succeed in fulfilling the expectations of the National Assembly with full commitment, commitment, objectivity and willingness to agree and compromise with other colleagues, regardless of which parties they come from. Once again, I am pleased that today as the National Assembly, we have shown our willingness to take responsibility, all together, when it comes to vital national interests, and the determination of the consequences of environmental pollution and the impact on human health due to NATO bombing, is certainly a national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36105	Thank you, Comrade Dracun. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, just a few sentences. First of all, I want to say that I am sorry that we have failed to translate the debate on such an important issue and the important issue completely and fully into the field of politics on a reasoned democratic debate and democratic dialogue of opinion. I'm sorry, because this question is life. I am sorry about the goal we want to achieve, and we have spoken about it many times during today's debate and during yesterday's debate, which is true. The truth is the interest of all of us and this truth, first of all, we owe it to the citizens of Serbia and to this relationship we show responsible and serious, first of all, the relationship between us as representatives of citizens on this very important and important issue. The hate speech and political acuity at least when we talk about such topics are certainly not desirable and not good. When we talk about topics that are vital and important, I think we need one different approach, one responsible, serious, brave and realistic approach, first and foremost with a view to the future. It takes respect and I think that we can always come from something that must be a common goal, a common denominator, a common interest in all of us, which is Serbia, because there are many political parties on Serbia's political scene, but one Serbia. A little while ago, Mr. Zivkovic said, and I agree here, each of us is today and during yesterday I can express political views about the period behind us, but I don't see that this would answer the question that we are raising and I don't see that it would give an answer to what we want to achieve, which is true, because I believe, I repeat that this truth is the interest of all of us. In different ways, we see the word "dignity", when it comes to dialogue, communication and parliament in these important and important issues. For us, courtesy means, first of all, that we throw out everything negative from the public discussion so that we have normal communication, decent dialogue, decent and orderly parliament, but for us it means fair and responsible to do our job and be prepared to bear responsibility for any consequences for mistakes if these mistakes exist and I want to say that this ruling majority is works, and not by saying that it cares about the principle of competence, also respecting and respecting the principle of responsibility, that this is a major shift on the political scene of Serbia in which years ago absolutely no one was guilty of anything. I want to thank the President of Parliament for launching the initiative. Once again, therefore, the SPS Parliament Club will support the draft decision. Mr. Laketich, you have a good starting point. We expect a medical and human aspect of your work, as you yourself said in your opening statement. The results will imply, we are fully convinced, in justice and truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36107	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36108	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, unreserved support from the Socialist Movement Parliament Club, People's Peasants and the United Peasants' Party, a commission I would first call the truth commission. Most of us have agreed here that this commission is forming to determine the truth, and when it is true, then surely the result of the commission's work cannot be propaganda, but only accurate and true facts, which are required to present to this home. Because almost all of us have some kind of already busy attitude and opinion as to what conclusion and report of this commission should be and the reason more so that the Commission must have both the strength and integrity to resist all the pressures and to give us an accurate and true report in this home and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have nothing to fear or to be ashamed of. Serbs have never been aggressors in their history, nor in 1999. In the debate so far, my esteemed colleagues, at least most of them, have been very correct and restrained, probably fearing their own anger and anger over everything we have undeservedly suffered, trying to make one of the most monstrous crimes in the recent history call it a decent name. But things have to be called the real name, for the sake of truth. They weren't enemies, they were criminals, they were criminals, they were murderers, monsters. Whoever wants to kill you in the war is the enemy. Whoever wants to kill your children is a villain. The truths can only be feared by murderers, executioners, criminals without conscience, who were not enough to kill us, that they were destroying us with the torment and blood sweat of the factories and bridges made, but knowingly and deliberately did much worse than crimes against humanity, essentially, they committed genocide against the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia. I remind you that the Belgrade District Court sentenced 14 Western leaders to 20 years in prison in September 2000. The verdict was pressured by an abnormal authority, the Supreme Court abolished on 19 June 2001, and the case was then lost track. Respecting my esteemed colleague, Goran Petronivic, then the judge who handled the case, now the lawyer, draws attention to the commission that it is very important if then the government did not destroy the entire case, should come up with this case because it contains very important documents related to the bombing, as these data were collected by nearly 27 district courts of the Republic of Serbia. It is not respected to me or to you because this US Marine on the flag says that there is no flag big enough to cover up the shame of killing innocent people, but at least we have hope that ordinary and normal citizens of 19 states, associated with a criminally destroying mass that has trampled on Serbia, do not share the wishes of their own owners. For the sake of truth, I will remind you once again, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Iceland, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Greece, Turkey, Canada, Great Britain, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Luxembourg and above all the United States. Maybe they're right, some colleagues who say it's easier to cooperate with the enemy than with the one you thought was your friend. At least you can't experience disappointment from the enemy. He cannot surprise you as Americans, our famous World War II allies, who leveled Belgrade after the country on Easter 1944, when in 1995, these same allies bombed Serb positions in Bosnia, when they joined together with those who bombed Belgrade on 24 March 1999. Seventy-eight days they were orgies in our sky, and when they realized they couldn't subdue us, they stepped on Serbia's heart with a boot to take our soul and hand it over to the Shiptar terrorists. They couldn't go on with their boots, and they wouldn't have come in here if it wasn't for the UCK, but they left us and our fellow Albanian national minorities with poisons and poor uranium to follow how we are poisoning, sick and disappearing by killing us and our children. It's not just poor uranium and it's not just bombs. The Zrenjanin and the environment were not hit by any bombs during those 78 days, but the grain newspapers, local, 2001 and 2002, were filled with deaths, both simply and too quickly, died of cancerous diseases. Is that a coincidence? I don't believe it, let the commission examine it. Their whole world is made up of lies, of unsuspecting lies that Goebbels would envy. All our alleged guilt, and their reasons for the bombing are the lie and the Racak, and the Markales, and your Miskin, and why would they trust me in their data where they shot and left the poor uranium. He's right, Mr. Delic. It won't be easy to say where they have polluted our land and water, and what we have yet to say about crazy people saying that Serbian children get cancer and die because of Chinese toys. This is, uh, distinguished colleagues and citizens of Serbia, either for the asylum or for the courtroom. I can't stay calm and cold-blooded as hard as I try, when I'm reading a statement from the American ambassador that our children and our children are being killed by smoking and bad genetics, I get on the cell phone a message from desperate parents trying to raise a real little fortune for hope that their child can survive. Those who bombed us, those who left us poor uranium, those who poisoned us, the destruction of chemical factories now earns enormous amounts of money, giving hope that our children can be cured. That's unforgivable. Kids don't say goodbye. Dear Mr. Ambassador, Serbs know their genetics, it's the best genetics in the world. It's the genetics of those who've never beaten and scolded weaker. It's the genetics of those who have always stood up against the strongest and survived. This people have been here for a long time. They didn't move here from the end and the rope. This isn't where criminals, adventurers, murderers moved in, so let's ask ourselves what our genetics are like. They've always been the best and the most honest here. We'll pick a commission. The Commission will determine the facts and the truth, and we will stand behind that truth and always fight for it. We will fight for our children, and those who, even out of false decency, cannot apologize for the crimes they have committed, should be urgently declared persons of non grata in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36109	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36110	Thank you. Indeed, this proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary commission, which will deal with the investigation and consequences of the 1999 bombing, for the lives and health of Serbian citizens, as well as for environmental protection, has come at the right time and is an important topic for Serbian citizens. It also showed a debate that was very good, content, essential and that lasted, as we can see, almost two days, where almost all the parliamentary clubs participated. No matter what we could hear today, regardless of the numerous replicas caused by one of the not very well-intentioned discussions, I want those MPs who have good intentions to participate and to vote on a proposal to form the commission in question to assure that this commission has exclusively good intentions. So, this committee, I have to repeat, is no courtroom. The commission must deal exclusively with the objectives set out in the proposal. Regardless of the emotions we all have when we remember in 1999, regardless of the political consequences that followed the bombing, I don't want to suggest this decision so that members of the commission or later parliament, when we discuss the report we're going to get, will go in the opposite direction and start looking for the culprit for the bombing, because we all agreed here that the crime itself was an act of bombing, no matter what motives he had. I say, the goal is solely to seek truth in favour of all citizens of this country, no matter which political option they support in the elections. To the question, which has repeatedly been repeated, why now, I won't blame anyone in this country why he didn't want to or why this year, that year. It's a good thing it happened at this point. Indeed no one had any intention, I had no intention of doing this first, to suppress any other topic, and as we see in the media and in the reactions of the citizens of this country, that this more important topic than any other and that no one here had intended to hide something else from them for two days, because there was really no political life in our country that would have to be covered up. The only reason why we now, who encouraged us to propose in parliament, was the fact that it is not the same when you propose the formation of a commission... I'm asking my colleagues just a little bit quieter because I can't concentrate so much on my exposure. It's not the same when you form a commission and base its work on the data that you only have and that you draw from your country. This has caused many controversy and this has caused many disputes beyond the borders of this country. My motive and Dr Darko Laketić were just to start working on this commission when we received a report that the Italian Parliament worked for 12 years, which proves that Italian soldiers, meaning that members of the NATO pact's army suffered from staying in territories that were bombed by poor uranium and suffered serious consequences, and some of them unfortunately died. In today's discussion, since this topic has become topic number one and in the media, and among the citizens, and among us, we have come up with data that suffer and die Belgian soldiers. It's a sad, but better position to start doing this commission than to use only domestic sources and to accuse us in advance of being biased. The Commission's proposal we're going to get continues to insist on being one smaller body, not a survey board. The committees we've had through Parliament's history have done absolutely nothing, precisely because of this glum. As far as expertise is concerned, our Rules of Procedure is very clear. When a commission is formed, when the work methodology is established, the commission proposes to the president of parliament to call on the committee of relevant scientists, scientific and professional institutions and institutions in the country, which I will, of course, do whoever I suggest we invite to the commission and we will also get that expert aspect. MPs should not be limited by expertise on whether they can question something, to listen to MPs. We are currently representing citizens of Serbia who are not professional in the field of physics, but tend to the truth. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be. I've heard some colleagues want to participate in the commission. Gordana Comic has repeated it several times, and I publicly call on her to participate in the work of the commission, because in a conversation with individual members of her particular club, they have hesitated personally and I am glad that she has that wish. I say, the Italian Parliament has worked for 12 years and we should not expect to receive any report or relevant information right away tomorrow, so we have also written that we are regularly informed about their work six months, and in 2020 our parliament, called on, could end exactly the work and this meeting by discussing the first preliminary report, but not the final report. I urge all MPs to vote in favour of this commission proposal in order to allow us to soon have the composition of the committee before us and to start working. It would be a great pleasure not to have MPs vote individually, but to vote MPs' clubs, politically, all political options, because it has one particular weight, and I respect the decision of some MPs to support this proposal. But, however, the vote by MPs' clubs has one more serious support and a serious political message that they are truly behind the formation of the commission, not that we have empty benches and that someone is hiding and said he voted one, two or three of our MPs. It's not the same as voting MPs' clubs, and I'm afraid of empty benches that won't happen exactly like that. Please vote in favour of this motion for a decision and simply allow the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to deal with one important issue, not just to analyse our past, but to be able to move forward and devote ourselves to our future, and no one here by forming a commission wants to prejudge what the results will look like, because that the results of this work say both, no one here will be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-05-18-0.u36111	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. Now I'm setting a two-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Please, before we move to decision-making, let's first determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I now determine the quorum, with 152 MPs present. We have conditions to continue our work. Before we move to the vote, I would like to inform you that I am procedurally, as president of the Assembly, on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, proposed that it be placed on the agenda of this session, following an urgent procedure – a proposal to amend the decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which I submitted to the initiative of the Serbian People's Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Also, on the basis of Article 168(3), I suggested that the emergency procedure be placed on the agenda of this session and the point – a proposal for a decision to amend a decision to determine the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, also on the proposal of the Serbian Progressive Party. And there's a change of heart that's no longer a member of our parliament. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 151 versus – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Procedurally, I have to open up a hearing on these two agenda points. I ask the parliamentary groups to sign up if they want to speak on the point's proposal. I'm opening a search. I can tell there are no reports. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. Also, I have to open up the Rules of Procedure search by Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, a single search on the proposal for a second decision. Does anyone want a word at this point? I also conclude a unique search into the motion for a decision. Since we have completed a single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 14 to 20 of the agenda and the proposals for decisions referred to in paragraphs 21 to 24 of the agenda, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure, which the President of the National Assembly may set a day for voting on a proposal for a single law or decision, shall be immediately upon the completion of the examination of that draft law or decision. In accordance with this provision, I designate 18 May 2018, starting at 15 hours and 15 minutes, as the day for voting on drafts of the law referred to in points 14 to 20 of the agenda and decisions referred to in points 21 to 24 of the agenda. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol amending Article 50a of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Protocol amending Article 56. Conventions on International Civil Aviation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the approval of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Boat Ballast Waters and Casualties of 2004. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on international road traffic, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on international road transport of passengers and freight. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in the area of urbanism, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the Commission's education for the investigation of NATO bombing in 1999 on the health of Serbian citizens, as well as an impact on the environment, with a particular reference to the consequences left by the use of a projectile with impoverished uranium, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 156. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I thank all MPs who participated in the vote. Continuing Monday's session, at 10.00 a.m. to discuss amendments to the proposed laws.
