ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29775	I have three questions to ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The first question – why has the Serbian Government not submitted to the National Assembly a financial report, i.e. a report on the implementation of the 2016 budget, even though the deadline has long passed? The second question, in its own time, was brought against the Law establishing the Agency for Restitution. Strahinja Sekulić was appointed director of the agency. During his six-year work, it seems to me, he didn't seem to have a mandate at all. About 200 people were employed at the Agency and the Agency turned into a real crime scene. I think it takes the National Assembly to ask the Government to file a report on the Agency's work. As we can see, instead of submitting a report to the National Assembly and the Government, Strahnja Sekulic reports to US Ambassador Scott and Scott directs him right ahead, and says -- Serbia still owes 13 billion, whether he told dollars or euros, to US citizens in the name of restitution, but there is no real way to charge it immediately. It should be in wars for a little longer. You see, Scott has taken the government into his own hands, mic by mic, a little by little, one by one, a state official. Who controls the other agencies, who knows? The agency has so much that the government would have to have a hundred members to control them all, and they're mostly unnecessary. Major crime took place there when making decisions on restitution. Who shall receive in this, who in that amount, who shall receive this, who shall receive that property? It is now said that it takes several billion euros for the state to pay for those with whom no natural restitution was possible. It's a scandal over scandals. The third question, the media said, and here I have the decision that the government of the Republic of Serbia made the decision yesterday March 12th to transfer 13.257,000 dinars to the Belgrade City Assembly to raise the monuments of Zoran Djindjic. First, this decision is against the law. This cannot survive in legal traffic, because the government can draw this in the form of a conclusion. The conclusion is an individual legal act by the government, and the decision is a general legal act and this cannot be decided on. Who is preparing these acts of government, this is now a special question, how was this possible? I demand that Ana Brnabic withdraw this immediately, and that the idea itself be reconsidered, since Zoran Djindjic does not deserve to raise the monument on any basis. We see here that an undetermined number of people has been rewarded at 19,000 euros, but for ideas solutions. So everyone who entered the second round got a reward. Zoran Djindjic led the mob coup on October 5th 2000. Here, his closest associates and friends are giving interviews to the newspaper that Zoran Djindjic gave up crime immediately after taking over. Here is the testimony of Dragoljub Markovic, one of the six porters. Zoran Djindjic is a traitor to the Serbian people, and the worst he did was to deliver Slobodan Milosevic to the UN war crimes tribunal on Vidovdan in 2001. He deserves contempt, the hatred of the Serbian people, not the giving of recognition in mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29776	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29777	Thank you. My first question is to the President, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. The question is – when will Serbia finally adopt an external-political strategy? This issue has been motivated, among other things, by this session and by the proposal for a co-operation agreement between the MUP and the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, by a controversial agreement, both in the manner in which it is adopted and in its contents. Minister Stefanovic said it is in Serbia's interest to co-operate with everyone, but I will remind you of the words of Friedrich the Great who said that those who try to be friends with everyone remain without friends, and this is being shown again these days, because of this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement with the Russian Federation again broke out in the first plan of Serbia's foreign-political position. The question arises – where does this ship sail in awake international waters, because it seems more to float, struck by various winds? It is obvious that, based on the statements made in recent days, as the Norwegian ambassador, that the EU is losing confidence in the Serbian government and that it would be smarter, wiser to follow more EU foreign policy, because we are facing the absurdity here that Serbia is formally approaching more and more EU foreign policy, and that compliance with EU foreign policy is becoming less and less compared to, say, 2014. Then, NATO commander's statement to Europe that Serbia is the main problem in the Balkans, and tomorrow we have a visit from the new US Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Asia, so it is obvious that there are certain expectations from the Serbian government and how the government will be set up. What is also worrying, what you have heard in diplomatic circles, if this law on co-operation with the Russian Federation, with the Federal Security Service, is adopted, that some countries are thinking about breaking off co-operation with the MUP. It is also alarming that, as it is heard in diplomatic circles, some ministers refuse to meet with the ambassadors of the Western countries, and that is a manner that reminds Slobodan Milosevic's behaviour in the early 1990s. I'll remind you that he hasn't met with US Ambassador Warren Cimmerman in six months, and we are well aware of the consequences of such a policy in the '90s. Speaking of Slobodan Milosevic, I refer the question to the President of the Republic about the initiative to raise the monument Slobodan Milosevic, who is otherwise a symbol of the overall collapse of the 1990s, and this initiative is addressed to both the President and the Commission for the Change of the Name of the Streets and Markets, which, although not formally, will essentially be Aleksandar Vucic. Here I would remind Alexander Vukic's statement while he was prime minister, in August 2016, when he said he had no idea that he would return to the 1990s and that he was interested in the future, so I wonder if he would stay with that statement or, as so far, in a number of cases, one will speak and the other will work? Finally, the third question for Minister Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, did this action, in a ghastly announced "No Black Work" agree with other ministers and ministries, because it seems so well designed, as well as his statement, his speech, his shameful speech, the eight-martian speech, when he insulted women and why he was to resign? At the centre of the action is a free number, free calls for employers to register, who employ black workers and, of course, no one can be for black employment policy. However, the reasons why employers hire on black should be removed previously, otherwise such free calls will only actually be calls for various Ilija Cvorovices to report employers. It is hard to imagine that people whose existence depends on these jobs, the existence of their families, will report their employers, or that they will cut the branch they are sitting on, however rotten that branch is.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29778	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29779	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my friends and comrades, I have a question first for the Department of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure, which is one request, and then I'll explain it through the question. I have a request to be delivered contracts with performers who were doing a reconstruction of the Obrenovac-Ub road in 2011. Here's why. After no less than six years, that path is in an almost catastrophic state, although it was done complete its reconstruction, I say, from the shirt to the final layer. For me as a layman, I've seen cracks that look very much like cracks on the highway section between Lykovec and Ub, and I think that the Department of Building should send its inspection immediately, do the expertise this time, to determine who made the mistake here, whether it was the designer, whether it was the performer, whether it was the surveillance that made the failures or any other reason for this stock crashing so quickly, because apparently that the misses certainly exist. The second question is when will it start with the reconstruction of the local roads that have been damaged, some even nearly destroyed, due to the construction of a section of the highway from Obrenovac to Ub, given that I have information that the works on that section have been completed, that there is no need to use these local roads anymore? What I am interested in, and interested in the citizens of Obrenovac, especially the settlements of the Great Field, the White Field, Piromana and Brović, when will the roads they need and need be returned to their original state? The third question for the same ministry is how does the Ministry plan to ensure conditions for the reconstruction of the case when it comes to building permits and all that concerns the construction in Obrenovac? I will remind you that in 2014, all the complete documentation owned by the municipality, owned by the cadastre and owned by the court in its entirety was destroyed. Citizens cannot function without these papers and these documents, the legal conditions that exist at the moment are not enough to provide the possibility that only based on a review of the building permits issued, objects can be reconstructed, as many citizens too do not have documentation, because they have lost their documentation in floods, but the fact that more force is something that must provide and create conditions to overcome such things in a regular and legal way. The fourth question is a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is -- will the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the same archin when it comes to the separation of funds to build a monument of Slobodan Milosevic, as it did for building a monument of Zoran Djindjic? Without the need to enter the controversy about what anyone thinks about one person and another, it is a historical figure, a former president of the Republic of Serbia, a former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a man who was killed in The Hague tribunal, who, until the last moment of his life, defended the honor and dignity of this people and deserves an absolutely identical, if not better treatment than what the government has provided and provided when building a monument to Zoran Djindjic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29780	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29781	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. In December of this month, I asked a question about the construction of a 150 square meters building of temporary material, as it stood in the permit, at the Pančić summit on Kopalnik, which, when it started to build, was built of concrete and built in the size of a thousand and a half square meters. I asked the question in December, I received an answer that on November 20th, the Republic Building Inspectorate carried out inspection of the construction of the facility and ordered the investor to remove the building. Today, in March 2018, not that this facility was not removed, but it began with work. It has a cafe and skiers spend a certain amount of time in the pub, and investors or investors earn profits. Now the question arises – are we a legal state, do we have institutions that care about law enforcement and is the Ministry of Construction and the Republic Building Inspectorate, do they work and serve to enforce the law? Obviously not. Obviously not because the investor is worthy, respected, respected member of the SNS and as such, probably because of the votes won in the elections in Belgrade, he has the right to build whatever he wants wherever he wants, because when you get votes in the elections, you can also build where you think of it and what comes to mind, since that is the answer for, I think, all the problems in society today. You have no right to speak, you have no right to ask, because you have not won the votes. Now, what's the name of a state that works like that? Whether it's a democratic, legal state or a fascist state, it's something this House should discuss. I hope that the President of the Assembly will fulfill at least one of her promises to the college that we had last week, which is that one set of laws that we will discuss here in the spring session will be from the area of construction, because then perhaps we will be able to ask the minister something about this case, something about how wild construction is booming again in Serbia today and how every fifth construction site in Serbia today is illegal. The second question is for the Prime Minister. When, unfortunately, we are still discussing important laws today, we adopted at the end of the year with the budget of the Financial Support Act for the family with children, there we did not foresee a way for women presently on maternity leave to increase their earnings, i.e. fees if they were employed before going to public sector leave. The increase in public sector wages that took place on January 1st this year did not cover pregnant women, because the law abolished the possibility that their fees paid by the state, which unfortunately remain late, would be lifted by the start of the law on July 1st of this year. They have been denied this increase, and representatives of NGOs' parents have been trying for three months to reach the Prime Minister, try to find a solution to the problem. It can be very easy to resolve, if you do not know how to look at our law on financial support for the family with children, where the legal provision stands, which allows these fees to be harmonised if they are made, paid to the public sector or other minimum earnings in Serbia, are also increasing the fees for pregnant women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29782	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29783	Thank you. I have three sets of questions. First, it leads to what counterpart Djurisic asked. So I repeat the question to the building ministry – how is it possible that the facility, an illegal facility at Pancic's summit, which was also determined only by the Ministry's notification and information that it was illegal and that its removal was ordered. It's still not just standing there and not being removed, it's still working, as the media is telling us. So that he worked during the winter season and did, since we know that services are once very effective in removing some... . or some modest buildings that people bend and build to solve their own housing problem, as they are effective in solving it, it is odd that this slowness and this ineffectiveness when it comes to implementing the law on such a representative matter, and I would say a provocative object at the top of Serbia. The second question, i.e. the second set of questions, concerns the Office, i.e. it goes to the Office for KIM and its President Mark Djuric, since it is so-called. Serbian list in so-called Kosovo's parliament presented as the Serbian government's projects and with full support from the Serbian government and then I ask the Office and Mr Djuric if they are then taking responsibility or whether they can guarantee that this so-called. The Serbian list will not vote to mark Kosovo's border with Montenegro, as was logical and contrary to the Constitution and laws of the Serbian state. Also whether the KIM Office and Mr Đuric, since they were the main promoters of the so-called "KIM". Serbian lists, whether they can guarantee that the Serbian List will under no circumstances vote for the transformation of the so-called "Serb List". Kosovo security forces in the Kosovo military, which would also be a precedent and scandal. You know, one thing to talk about and make very nice speeches and statements, as Mr Đurić often does, and the other is in practice to work on the implementation of independence, the actual independence of so-called Đurić. the Republic of Kosovo. With this in mind, my third question goes to the Foreign Ministry and I only ask for confirmation of the position already on the Committee on a previous parliamentary issue, which is that for the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose foreign policy is run by the MUP, is absolutely unacceptable under any conditions that Kosovo can be allocated, or accepted, to the UN chair for Kosovo. That, therefore, was the attitude that was confirmed to me in response to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm just asking if that attitude still stands. So, that absolutely unacceptable, under any circumstances, is without any circumstances if, if, however, because there should be no illusions, even ordinary citizens certainly know that accepting a chair for Kosovo to the UN would be a practical peace with the independence of KIM. Then, in vain, we are praised by Suriname, Burundi and Rwanda and by various countries of Africa and all over the world who allegedly withdrew or are ready to withdraw the recognition of Kosovo, which we have done by such an act de facto. The last question goes to the leadership of the National Assembly and some kind of appeal, given the atmosphere that has been created, was both at the end and last session, so the present, I simply appeal and ask whether and what the leadership of the Assembly will do to ease this bad atmosphere in the National Assembly in some way. This polarization is a devastating, this conscious or unconscious pushout, an attempt to push the opposition out of the National Assembly, which is not good for safety or for business or for the famous attraction of these famous foreign investors. So, the opposition outside parliament is some sort of emergency and it's something that no one should want or wish for, although sometimes it seems more comfortable and comfortable. That is why I think it is a shared responsibility, in order to require some college of the heads of parliament to see what can be done on this plan, as we see again that by applying the amendments to the first members of the first law, it practically makes it impossible for the opposition to discuss the amendments. We see only how many MPs of the opposition or the entire opposition are calling themselves scum, gang, criminals, etc. yesterday. So in this world I simply appeal to the common interest to try to find a compromise so that this Assembly can function as well as the institution is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29784	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29785	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my first question to the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister for Environmental Protection and the Veterinary Administration. I'm going to tell a case that is unfortunately widespread in our country, and it happened in the village he lives in, in the Russian crater on Friday. Neim, someone on the road between the Russian Cross and Kosančić threw out the dead pigs, in such a order, maybe there were 20, 30 and big pigs and everything. The citizens saw it, they saw it along the way, very close to the village. On Friday, they called from the local community, the utility company, all kinds of inspections, no one wanted to help. It just cost me so much all weekend, then I'd also call Monday a veterinary inspection, a community inspection and everything. They treated me the same way they treated the citizens. I ask – who should the citizens turn to in one village if they see such a thing happening. I'm not just thinking about waste, but I'm thinking about dead animals that can just cause infection, it's very close to the village and who knows what can happen. So I ask all these listed ministries – whom the ordinary citizen in one village should turn to and who, at the moment he turns to, should come to react, because simply, in that case alone, people waited all weekend for someone to come to write down what happened, let alone drive it all away. That's why I'm asking in response from the Ministry of Veterans to tell me who's in charge, who should the citizens turn to? I'm interested in who threw out those dead pigs on that road Russian Cruise - Kosančić, when was it and when those pigs were removed and where were they destroyed? I ask the second question, Minister of Labour Zoran Djordjevic, which concerns the company Des, which has been operating since 1948 in Novi Sad, and the company is of particular importance because it employs people with hearing impairment and since 1948 there has always been a company of particular social and state interest. Apparently, this company now employs 200 people, and is interested in its existence by working metal, wood, printing, sewing suits for firefighters, etc. HTZ equipment. It's that these four actions they've been interested in since 1948. Apparently, those damaged persons heard, the people who are employed, the disabled in the company heard that the company shut down in May, so I'm interested in asking Minister Zoran Djordjevic if it's true that this company closes in May, is it going to be privatised and does the state no longer want to care about those people who are disabled and all of this will one day leave to the private, who will certainly not be the same way to fight for those people who work there? So I'm asking that question and Zorana Djordjevic. Another short question that concerns farmers. I wonder if this year the farmers will only get 4,000 dinars per hectare for plant production? What happens to funding regressed diesel fuel because, just so far, farmers don't know whether the regressed fuel will be abolished this year? To what extent and did we advance with IPARD funds? Simply, farmers cannot meet the conditions predicted by IPARD alone. Most likely, the state should form a guarantee fund, because people first need to buy a machine and after two years to pay them that money. So, I think small farmers will go around IPARD, so I ask the Ministry of Agriculture - will they do anything else?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29786	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29787	Thank you. A question in the same text for the Prime Minister, Mr. Brnabic, Defence Minister Vulin and Chief of Staff Mr. Dikovic. Today it is exactly three years since the tragedy of the rescue mission "Helicopter" in which seven people were killed: the mechanic-flyer Ivan Miladanovic, pilot Omer Meic, Ensign Nebojsa Drajić, Lekar Djevad Ljajic and anaesthetist Miroslav Veseninović and the baby family of Ademovic, who was rescued and why the rescue mission was launched. These seven people were killed, and even after three years, we don't have the answers to the key questions needed for all the factors of this terrible tragedy to really brighten up, and for the victims to get justice, as-so-called, we can't bring their lives back to them. The investigation was conducted and ended with disciplinary penalties for Generals Bandic and Zivak. The investigation found that the minister did not respect the co-ordination, that oral orders were issued, that the procedure had been violated. The investigation found that one unit of the MUP refused such a task. The investigation identified a number of other circumstances, but without identifying those responsible for this truly tragic event that we shared as a society. I'm not going to mention it here, and I'm not saying it's a mess of media and portals and electronic media that announced that the helicopter landed happily, announced that they were waiting for you and you at the airport, so that's not part of the question, but it is a question that I'm asking for the second time and a question why I'm asking that our National Assembly agree on the survey board. The first question is - from whom did Minister Gasic receive information on the basis of which he brought the oral order to organise the mission? Someone had to let him know, someone had to explain it to him. There's no record of that in any act. The second question is, who changed the flight plan on the return of the aircraft to Belgrade? In transcripts and investigations, there are data on the conduct of private talks, which is also a violation of the procedure, but there are no names and names of those who changed the flight plan of the helicopter when he was already returning from the rescue mission. If we don't face the tragedy that we've lost seven human lives and if we consider it acceptable to all the dishonest things that have been said about Omer Mehic in hours after the accident, if we quietly accept that, well, we've had good intentions in the media and all those who have violated the procedure, so what are we going to do, some accidents are inevitable, then such an accident will happen again to us. The accidents may be inevitable, but it is not inevitable that under the Constitution and the law the MP asks the Minister, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, and that they answer it, it is not inevitable, it is because the data is being hidden, which is hiding the facts and being protected by general and common damage. It would be best for the National Assembly to decide on the establishment of a polling committee, but if we do not have the strength to agree on it as MPs, then by asking this question, I call on the Constitution and the power of the law to answer me who informed Minister Gasic and who changed the flight plan. We owe it not only to dead people, we owe it to all of us because of the future respect for all the procedures in force in the Serbian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29788	The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29789	My respects, Chairman. First question I refer to Minister Djordjevic. Namely, it is not his scandalous one he had recently, with the intention of congratulating women in Serbia on March 8th, so it concerns one other statement. He recently said in the statement that the Law on Gender Equality, therefore, sent some new draft law on gender equality, to Sweden. Given that we already have one draft law on gender equality that has written not only the coordinating body, as the government's body, and not only the most significant, perhaps the most influential members of the civil sector who worked together on this bill, I'm just curious about what exactly draft law was sent to Sweden and why exactly in Sweden? I agree that Sweden may have the best standards in this regard, but that does not automatically mean that the state of Serbia can just prescribe some law, which is a question in general which can be applied in Serbia, in a country in the Balkans. So, I am interested in exactly what draft law has been sent and if the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Minister Djordjevic can deliver to our parliamentary group the draft law that was sent to Sweden in the meantime. I'm referring the second question to Minister Lonchar, and it concerns the epidemic of little goddesses, which I think the whole public knows a lot about. So, when we had in the last or the previous week two, one after the other, deaths related to the situation around the little goddesses, I, according to the medical instructions of those who called “Torak” to ask if they could carry out my personal immunizations. At that time, however, there were no reagents that could determine whether I had ever received an MMR vaccine in my life. What will say that at the moment we have a small goddess epidemic in Serbia, we do not have enough supplies of reagents to determine it. Today, I called "Torak" again before I came to this session and today, "Torak" has these reagents, but I am curious whether, according to the regulation that exists, we have 25% of the necessary supplies of this agent and at all the vaccines, not only of the MMR vaccines, but of all possible vaccines that one person in Serbia should receive according to one plan. I'm referring the third question to the Minister of the Interior. I'm going to ask him that, I'm going to have enough patience, not have to deliver the answer in the next 15 days, I'm going to suggest that that deadline be a month. I'm just asking you to calm down your colleagues, 'cause I can't outsmart myself. Thank you. So I will ask him to send us in one format exactly how many Serbian citizens migrated to Belgrade right before the Belgrade elections. So consider that we have a large number of reported cases when people are brought by buses from different parts of our country to vote in Belgrade. The other thing that interests me, therefore, is not only those migrations that have been made in the last six months to Belgrade, I am also interested in how these people will move out of Belgrade, because in this sense it needs a quarterly report from the interior ministry that will inform us how many people have moved out of Belgrade in the meantime. So let's determine one regularity that happens right before some local elections, which we all know very well. The last thing, I am referring to a colleague who has already asked a question in this regard, is today three years from a terrible tragedy that occurred in Serbia, and to the personal responsibility of current ministers who insisted that the helicopter land instead of a military airport in Batajnica or airports located in Kragujevac, Kraljev or Nis or VMA. So, one of the ministers certainly, and probably two ministers were involved in the organization of a scandalous, essentially happening, that one helicopter with six civilians, six adults and one baby landed at a civilian airport past a bad meteorological picture that day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29790	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29791	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow the course of this session of the National Assembly, helps everyone, and I hope that our today conversation will pass in constructive tones without classical bickering and everything we have seen in the previous days, as I advise, and I have been very constructive, in this direction I will also direct questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic and the cabinet of ministers without portfolio for demographics and population policy, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. We have been witnessing these days that the Council for Popular Policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has also met, but we have received very few information on what that council has concluded in the first place. I want to get a very detailed report from the Council's meeting on the population policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to hear what their measures are to address the most important state issue, the issues of all the issues of the state of Serbia, which is the problem of the white plague and the demographic disappearance of our people and the state. It is enough, respected colleagues and respected citizens, to remind you of several parameters, to die more annually in Serbia than 35,000 Serbian citizens are born, that as many Serbian citizens leave this country at least and go abroad. It means that we lose at least 70,000 people a year, and the figure is likely and much larger, because we haven't made it to the day today or to determine it. On the other hand, we have under one child per couple, we have a growing problem with addiction diseases, with a large number of divorces, with a small number of married couples, with nursing and single households, with single mothers and fathers, with overindebted families, and in particular, this, please pay attention to a new social phenomenon, single families, families where no member is employed. So these are all the problems to be answered by the Council for Population Policy, but as I've seen from the shrewd media information, I don't have any concrete ideas. Only information has been released that the cabinet of the minister without portfolio has foreseen in the government of Serbia's budget for this year a little less than five million euros to encourage birth, which is what I seriously say, a scandalously low figure that anything can be done in the fight against the white plague. You know what four and slightly more than that million euros are, these are two reconstructed fountains at Slavia in Belgrade. So, it is impossible for the most important state issue, on the issue of all issues, to solve the problem of the white plague, to single out the order of size for the reconstruction of two fountains in the city of Belgrade. It's an unserious relationship to such a serious question. To prove this to you, which I want to ask as a question to both the prime minister and the minister, at this point if you enter the cabinet site of Minister without the portfolio of Slavica Djukic Dejanovic you will see that the main document is current – a strategy to encourage birth in Serbia, you know which? The 2008 birth-enhancing strategy signed by the then Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. For ten years, this country has no new strategy to promote birth. I have to inform you that 400,000 is less for those ten years than no government has cared about the problem of white plague, and I responsibly say, very well-meaningly and constructively, that this government does not care enough about it and has no clear plan of population policy. We suggested, and here I don't just want to criticize, I want to be very constructive, 17 October last year, in 2017, a declaration to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia. That the protection of the family must enter the Constitution of Serbia, that the Ministry of Family Protection must be formed, that we also need family protectors besides the Citizens' Protectors and that we need to enter into comprehensive reforms, tax reforms that will be in the function of facilitating the lives of families. Then, solving housing issues for young couples, financial incentives for newborn children, flexible working hours, to get back to normal working hours from 7 to 15 hours, to make Sunday a day off. I don't see why anyone would have anything against such a constructive suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29792	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29793	I thank the chairman. I ask the question to the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, and I ask for a notice on when work will be continued with the drafting of codes of conduct of MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, including outside the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's that we witness daily that no one is responsible for the spoken word. Today, we have been given confirmation of irresponsibility for the spoken word by the fact that it is completely without any sanctions, without any objection, without any restriction of anything that may not be allowed to national MP Jovanovic to distort the truth, it has been allowed to demean this Assembly, it has been allowed to disdain our MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that a particularly parliamentary group of SPS leads to a pillar of shame, bearing in mind tradition, given the duration of the SPS. The fact that no one can question is the fact that Slobodan Milosevic, as president of Serbia's state, Yugoslavia, as president of the SPS, has done something state-owned, which is that he has opposed something that no one has ever opposed before, and yet it is a fact that cannot be doubted that he has kept state interest in every way possible. The bombing of our country was not because of what Jovan Jovanovic said, a symbol of failure to say shamelessly, but the historical fact that Serbia's bombing came because of Republika Srpska. That Slobodan Milosevic showed his state size and authority by refusing to sign an agreement that was created in Rambuje. So what he's trying to devalue in some way, what he's trying to turn through the distortion of history into the opposite of everything that's been done positively, we've been witnessing today that through the parliamentary questions the truth otherwise shows, history distorts. If we allow it, and if we go that way from our future, there must be nothing. So I ask you, in future, to the parliamentary issues and for everything that comes out of the framework of democratic discussion and democratic dialogue and enters into something that really represents the destruction of this House's parliament, we have to sanction in some way. Since the Rules of Procedure apply as applied that MPs do not generally adhere to the Rules of Procedure, then it is possible that at least the ethical code will contribute to some kind of discipline through the spoken word being achieved, because it is the only way to awaken, if there is at all a personal ethical code with each of the MPs. If it does not exist then it is the problem of the MP, not of us, I am convinced of the majority who are thinking exactly as I want to represent on behalf of my and our parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group. Once again, I think the most dangerous thing to try to do in this home is to bend history. If we allow it, the danger will be much greater, and during a future period of time, it is difficult to eliminate it if we do not remove it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29794	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29795	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I refer my parliamentary question to Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. The question is – what is happening with cases of criminal charges filed by the DRI to the Senior Prosecutor's Office in Smederevo against the former president of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, Radoslav Radojicic Kena. The genius, ladies and gentlemen of the national parliamentarians, the respected citizens of Serbia, who succeeded in the small municipality of Smedervska Palanka in charge of three budgets, a genius who managed to bring back the citizens of Smederevska Palanka from the 21st century 21st century to the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 19th century of Stano Glavas, to go with loyalties and light up the streets of Smederjevska Palanka, because he was conducting a Bahata policy and because of his blatant policies running the local self-government of Smederevska Palanka was nearly a year away from street lighting. Here are the specific cases that are in the Senior Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, and I think. In 2011, money was deposited from the municipality's budget at the expense of the Sports Development Centre. The total amount for a year was 27,778,077,26 dinars. Over three million dinars were paid. When it comes to this genius, of course there's no point of payment and there's no point. In 2012, 30.665,398.00 dinars were transferred to the Development and Sports Centre. They paid more than three million dinars to the Mlados Handball Club. The accompanying documentation which would justify this purpose of payment and the implementation of the costs does not exist. Every year, respected citizens of Serbia, Kena is entitled to tens of millions of dinars through the Sports Development Centre, which is also the argumentary evidence established by the DRI and located in the Senior Prosecutor's Office in Smederevo. In 2013, 22,936,988,00 dinars were paid from the municipality's budget for the Center for Sport Development. They paid more than two million dinars to FK Kusadak. Normally, the paperwork doesn't exist. Another example is the public institution FK "Jasenica 1911" through which Kena laundered the money and made a municipal enterprise or tricked the state from the football club. Imagine, respected citizens of Serbia, a football club that becomes a municipal enterprise? This is what Charles Ponzi, the greatest master of the 20th century scheme, is talking about. He's a preschool facility for this genius. In 2015, 2484.352,69 dinars were transferred from the municipality's budget. They transferred more than eight million dinars to the FK Vodice account. There is no such thing as documentation, of course. "Vodice" is one of the smallest villages in the Municipality of Smederjevska Palanka. For nearly 80,000 euros, a road from the village to the farthest field can be made. Kenna worked the roads, the honourable MPs. He made roads with an asphalt thickness of 2.5 centimeters along with his friends at abnormal prices, like he was doing highways, and after the first winter, those roads looked like he'd crossed the carpet of bombs. In 2016, 10,728,370 dinars were paid with the budget of the municipality of Center. The centre paid over 4.5 million dinars to FK "Vodice" and FK "Glibavac". Documentation that would justify the purpose of the payment, as well as documentation to prove what all citizens of the Smederjev Palanka's money was spent of course not. This is only part of the malfeasance of this self-proclaimed Smederjevska Palanka despot, which destroyed the Smederjevska Palanka municipality and destroyed the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka. He's DS fins, president of the executive board, master of malfeasance. He had someone to study with in the DS. What is saddest, today these same, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the same ones who had the chance to prove themselves, and they proved themselves, to the misfortune of the state and the people, so that the state and the people led to the edge of the ambition, attacked Alexander Vukic and the SNS. They are attacking Alexander Vukic, president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who work day and night in the interest of the future of both the state and its people. On this occasion I would like to once again tell the citizens of Smederevska Palanka that March 25th is a day for winning the Smederjevska Palanca, a day for winning the electoral list I compare the number 1 - Alexander Vukic, because we love the Smederjevska Palanca, because the citizens of Smederjevska Palanca deserve a team of honest and honest people who think in the interests of their citizens. In the end, I can't help but mention a few days ago this genius Kena accused the SNS of putting some pressure on DS at the Smederjev Palace. Dear citizens of Serbia, who today is interested in DS with 2% and this genius Ken? They can only be interesting to the history and investigative authorities of the Republic of Serbia for everything they have done to harm the state and the people, leading Serbia for over a decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29796	Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Momo Colakovic and Stefana Miladinovic. We continue the search of the proposal in detail on the first item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on foreigners. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, as regards the first item of the agenda, I have called for today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Katarina Tomaševic, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Milica Ćatic, Secretary of the MUP, Vladimir Rebic, Director of Police and Zorica Vulić of the Border Plitium Administration. Both MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković together and Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlić submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29797	I hope that the jury in Belgrade with co-workers will have an understanding for fellow MPs who tried to make a good impression yesterday and that these difficult words and cold ones to which the government refuses all these ingenious proposals to members of the Foreign Law, will understand their jitters and their entanglement, because the competition in this half-tronity is something new for them. I understand that Nebojsa from Belgrade has great experience in this, but that some of his colleagues... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29798	My colleague Đurišić, you know that during the debate with colleagues, and even ministers who are our colleagues in a certain way, you speak with respect. (Marko Djurisic: I am talking about Nebojsa from Belgrade who answered the phone. If you're talking about Nebojsa from Belgrade, then you're not in the agenda. You're talking about some people nobody knows anything about, if you didn't mean the minister. (Marco Djurisic: There, it is an opportunity for the minister to discover. Minister to find out? (Marco Djurisic: Who is Nebojsa from Belgrade and who are the phantoms from Savala. ) Mr. Djurisic, the debate is on the proposal for a law on foreigners. (Marco Djurisic: Can I continue? ) You may proceed, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the subject we have, and that is your amendment to Article 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29799	Thank you. Unfortunately, we were listening yesterday and we will listen to amendments that, according to the government itself, are not related to what this law deals with. So they don't regulate the rights and obligations of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia and we'll listen to that today. I'm just asking the jury to understand that these shows here... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29800	Mr. Djurishic, I give you a warning. This isn't a competition. There's no jury here. This is a session of the National Assembly. Because of the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, you have been warned. Ask for the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29801	Thank you, Chairman. Is this a session of the National Assembly or something else, the citizens who are watching this must have an opinion. It is certainly not a session of the National Assembly, and what is it, we can talk about it. I am pleased that you have joined the presidency and have begun to implement those measures of the Rules of Procedure which speak about order at the sitting, given that we have had opportunities today to hear the most terrible insults addressed to the MPs, to whom you have not responded. I hope that the same archaic will be applied to the end and that you will also make sure that the presentations of MPs are in line with the subject being discussed today, whether they are talking about the subject, or not, or that you will continue with the practice that only and the only thing you are doing is punishing the MPs of the opposition. I don't have any problem, you can keep punishing me, but that won't keep me quiet, so please make sure you apply the same archaic to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29802	Thank you. By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29803	Dear representatives of the MUP, honourable fellow MPs, I have an obligation to draw your attention to the amendment proposed by the Serbian Movement Group of the Dveri, and I will read it once more, because I do not think I can say anything better and more precisely than what is already said in the light of this amendment. Therefore, there are no conditions under existing parliamentary practice for the normal work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the democratic procedure, and we believe that this law should not be adopted in general or with changes in particular until these are corrected. The procedure for adopting legal solutions has been questioned by the absence of public debate and obstructions of parliamentary discussion by the ruling majority. This specifically concerns laws that directly concern the problems of a vast number of migrants who have passed through the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today they are located in reception centres, or as asylum seekers, and there are over 620,000 of them, can be returned from EU countries to the Republic of Serbia. We therefore believe that the adoption of proposed legislative solutions should be hitched until the accumulated anomalies and irregularities in the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are corrected. One of the first conditions is certainly the resignation of National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, an emergency session scheduled for the current topics. Only the Dvori requested 11 special sessions on the topical topics. None so far has been maintained, although the obligation is to have at least one monthly appointment, as well as inclusion in the agenda of legislative and other proposals by opposition parliamentary groups. This House of the National Assembly is not only home to government, but equal rights are given to MPs from the opposition. So, I'd just like to point out to the public on this appeal of fellow professor Miladin Chevarlic, to get rid of, Mr. Minister, and this problem with the traffic charts, because it's not right for citizens to pay for the mistakes of the ministry that are now abolishing some Latin letters, which should never have been found on our traffic tables, because Cyrillic is actually a major state letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29804	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't a hall for technical examinations. So, uh, whether he's a registered MP or not, that's not a question for parliament. Since he deals with agriculture, I'd expect him to bring license plates for agricultural machinery. Apparently, he's a farmer as needed, since he's not in the folk costume, he's brought city plates today, license plates that go on cars, but I haven't seen a folk MP with license plates yet. There are numbers, though, but on the other side of the lock. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you to remove these tables and warn your fellow MPs. Speaking of Cyrillic, let me just say that they were in a coalition with the US Embassy adviser, US Embassy adviser Sasa Radulovic, who sued me for words spoken for the pay phone. So much for freedom of speech, private criminal charges. And this private criminal lawsuit was delivered to me on the Latin, and even the judge challenged me with the right to Cyrillic, since he was their coalition partner, they advocated Latina, Cyrillic class, a class for agriculture, an hour for audiences, a class for church, a class against church, but you have to keep an eye on these attempts to punish. Otherwise someone will bring us a billboard here next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29806	My colleague Rističević, I do not believe that those provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated. (Marian Risticevic: Then I bring the billboard.) (Vojislav Seselj: What? You want my picture? ) It cannot be just the chairman who will safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly, must first and foremost be fellow MPs. Clearly, some do not care about the dignity of the National Assembly or the function they perform. The people have the right to make mistakes in the elections and to correct their mistakes on the next. (Miladin Ševarlic: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29807	I just want to say about, according to this amendment, of course. What is important for Serbian citizens to know that the migrant crisis was one of those situations in which the Republic of Serbia acted well, regardless of what 1.5 million migrants went through our territory. In our territory today there are about 3,600 migrants, who normally don't want to stay in our country, and I don't mind mentioning this as many times as it takes. It is true that about 650 thousand of them have expressed their intention to seek asylum, but they have requested asylum in Germany, not Serbia. In the previous year, we have only 14 solutions for 14 people who have requested and received a solution to asylum or subsidiary protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while for the largest number of people who requested asylum in the past year, a solution has been taken or suspended or suspended because they have left our country. So they're not using that right to essentially stay with us, they're using that possibility to go to Western Europe. As regards the tables, the Tablet Regulation was adopted in 2010, with these Latin letters and then the tables were issued. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the decision by the MUP won't cost a penny more, so they don't pay anything to replace plates with Latin letters more than if they replaced tables that don't have these letters – ð, Ä, j, j, æ and everything else. So the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the opportunity to replace them in the regular procedure and when the table expires, after seven years. So they're not paying anything, they're not paying the dinars more expensive than those citizens who have plates with a second letter. We have otherwise entered into a change, a procedure for changing the look of the table, so that they will have more Cyrillic letters, more will be adapted to our country, so that neither the decision of this current government was to introduce such a thing, we have only made an effort to change this and that Serbian citizens have no additional costs, which is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29808	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) (Miladin Ševarlić: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Chairman. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here's a colleague of Vujadinović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29809	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad we're finally returning the subject, i.e. This whole thing is back on the topic, with the need to say that I hope that Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the Belgrade City Committee, will endure in his, let me say, efforts to make it impossible for people who have less than 1% of the support in the people in the elections as soon as possible, to continue with the insults they present both at the expense of the government and at the expense of the Assembly, but if you will eventually at the expense of Serbia as a whole, because the question of their legitimacy and presence in this respected home is being raised. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, how important it is that this law recognises when it comes to Article 3, which explains the meaning of the term and the foreigner of investors, I think we know best the people who come from Subotica and Northboa County. Today, it is the category of persons in Subotica, and it is one of the most significant actors in development, economic development from Subotica and Northoba County. One example is the one in which, with the help of the President of the Republic and our mayor, Mr Bogdan Laban, in June of last year, we opened the plant of the company “Amatek”, i.e. "Amatek Business Campus", as well as the Italian company "Thenplast", which has started and set the groundwork for the employment of hundreds of workers, which will certainly, as well as this law, contribute to the achievement of the overall declared goal, which is, above all, economic development and the fight against crime in the Republic of Serbia. That is what the government of the Republic of Serbia itself is ultimately about, but also about society in general. If we strengthen our own economy and economy, set sound foundations in central Serbia, then we will certainly be able to help both our countrymen and KIM in this way, but if you will, in the environment, in Republika Srpska, in Croatia, Macedonia, etc. etc. For now, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29810	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Dickie, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29811	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, the proposal for a law on foreigners in Article 3 made clear the meaning of certain terms used in this law, and I, by my amendment, wanted to complete this series of expressions and to give a special place to the meaning of the concept – a foreign investor. I suggested that in Article 3. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds point 1a, which reads - an investor is a person who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and who, by its business, encourages economic development and empowerment of the defence system. I think it's important to think of a foreign investor as giving this meaning, because I think I'm convinced that foreign investors are not ordinary foreigners. Unlike these ordinary ones, who come and go, for various reasons, foreign investors have decided in some way to share fate with us. They invested their capital with us, and they could have invested it anywhere, in any other country, elsewhere. They decided to share their lives with us, in a way, to share all their successes, their failures, to develop and grow, to invest in new facilities, new production plants, new jobs. In a way, they're no longer ordinary strangers. Thanks, above all, to the engagement of Alexander Vukic and the SNS with coalition partners, as well as the involvement of Serbian government representatives in several previous years, Serbia has still attracted a large number of foreign investors, which make a significant contribution to economic development, and thus to empowering the defence system. I'll just list some of them, a smaller number. "Cumtobel" a cooling system factory in Nis, an investment worth about 30m euros, will be employed by 1,000 workers, "IGB Automotive", a car heater factory in Indjije, "Taipa" textile industry Kraljeno, "Leoni" factory in Nis and Kralje, Chinese industrial park in Belgrade, "Simens" investment in Milanović, Kragujevac, "IMI" auto parts factory Niška Banja, "Progeti" shoe factory in Sombor and Knjažvac, "Gramer" factory preslaka Aleksinac, "Jasaki" factory electrocomponents for trucks Shabac, "Henkel" investment in Serbia, "Serkan" textile investments in the factory "Perkon", "Teklas" "Teklas" automotive Vladicin Han, "Tera style of the factory, "Tera of the other plant, Lebicin" and "Telecan, "Telecan, "Telecan, "Telecan" in the factory, "Telecan, "Tele". Such success in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, for which Alexander Vukic and SNS are certainly the most responsible, all these representatives of the opposition that were once in power could not dream in their most beautiful dreams. I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29812	Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacević submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is a colleague of Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29813	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 3 is defined as the concepts already in use, therefore, are in the Foreign Law, but we see that there is also a need to define some new concepts, and in that sense my amendment, which I suggest defines the notion of foreign investors, with the meaning that it is a person who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, but who will encourage economic development and better development of the judicial system. At this point, I would take the opportunity to remind and point to the importance of foreign investment in the city I come from, and I'm from Nis. So the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Austrian company Cumtobel concluded a contract that means an investment worth more than 30m euros, which is an additional 1,000 jobs for the citizens of Nis. Also, the large Dutch company IMI only offers 1,500 jobs in the first factory and also represents an investment worth about 30m euros. German investors are very important. Those in Serbia employ more than 35,000 people and the Nis have been released into operation by Leoni, which will employ 2,000 people. I am proud to say that the town of Nis is officially in the seventh place of small European cities in the future according to British Financial Times, while as a region it ranks third in the small European regions in the category of attracting foreign direct investment. Of course, local self-government is in charge of this, especially local government in Nis has done a lot, but without the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we would not have succeeded. In that sense, I will support all the proposals that are here by the government, especially by the MUP, because I am giving strong support to the development policy implemented by our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29814	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29815	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on foreigners and I can hardly believe that certain MPs of the opposition are already talking about the inconsistencies of these laws the second day. Those who do not understand that economic policy is in a causal and consequential relationship with social policy have virtually no knowledge of the protection or economic development of the country, and hence, of the protection of citizens as well as of the protection of vulnerable groups. What I must praise, and as far as the foreign law is concerned, is that it is in line with the highest international standards regarding the protection of human rights that has just been clearly explained and clearly treated, above all, vulnerable social groups, and these are children without escorts and other vulnerable groups, persons with disabilities, pregnant women, single mothers, victims of domestic violence, victims of human trafficking, etc. Of course, I must commend all the activities of the MUP during the migrant crisis, their deep professionalism, clear respect for the procedures and their deep and human attitude towards migrants, particularly sensitive categories, which have been found in transit and passage through our country. Of course, on this occasion, I also want to show a photo of a police officer who went around the world, from November 2015, when the police once again showed that, first of all, she had a human approach to the most vulnerable categories, which are, first of all, children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29816	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29817	The interestingness of the amendments proposed in different forms by the MPs is the special definition of a foreign investor who does not have Serbian citizenship, which would exclude persons with Serbian citizenship. Why is that interesting? Because, for example, there is. Mr. Vasilev, with Bulgarian citizenship, Mr. Gica, with Romanian, Mr. Mohamad Ahmad, as the most interesting person, also with Serbian citizenship and these are people who have already invested in Serbia or are working very seriously as consultants on various projects that are now taking place in Serbia or are being planned. The amendment is completely understandable, but it remains unclear why the MPs of this group then eliminate this group of persons from the law? Because these are the people who got Serbian citizenship. Mr. Mohamad Ahmad is one of the first. He also has the citizenship of Montenegro. So if we want to send our amendments a message to foreign investors that they are more than welcome, because they help Serbia's economic development, reduce unemployment, increase gross domestic product, why exclude people with Serbian citizenship? I don't argue that it's right to the idea, of course, but I suppose there must be a reason. If the reason is that some problem with these persons who are also with Serbian citizenship is very influential in the investment circles, both Mr Vasilev and Mr Gica and Mr. Don't talk about Mohamed, then did a problem arise, or was the simple strategy of the parliamentary group missed to send an unusual message? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29818	Anyone else want a word? (No) The People's MP, Zarko Bogatinovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29819	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers Stefanovic with associates, the environmental resources of a local self-government represent a very important potential in terms of bringing foreign investment and investment into the economy, or agriculture, which is very important for each local self-government. The town of Leskovac, where I come from, has three very important ecological resources and it is certainly one imperative of a local self-government and a good sign that local self-government, mayor, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, is very concerned about protecting the environment, in terms of creating a good business environment. The first ecological resource is certainly a water system and a accumulated lake of Barje, which provides a good part of the town of Leskovci with healthy drinking water, a volume of 41 million liters of cubic, or 23 million liters of cubic useful surfaces, allow the city and 90 thousand inhabitants to have healthy drinking water. Another important environmental resource is definitely the regional sanitary dump of Željkovac, in which six other municipalities in the area are dumping solid municipal waste, beside the town of Leskovac. The town of Leskovac, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in time concluded a contract with a single foreign company, the former “Porn Vermer and Weber”, the current company “Pore” on the collection, disposal and disposal of solid municipal waste. Finally, as time runs out, my colleagues signal, one of the most important environmental resources is and certainly a central wastewater treatment plant that was built at the mouth of Veternica and South Morava in the village of Bogijevac. The wastewater treatment plant was built in 2016, with the EU funding of 10.4m euros and local self-government providing a communal condition. The facilities at about six hectares, which with the production plants of water lines, auxiliary facilities, lighting and traffic, are only the first phase of waste water management in Leskovac, which with 24.2m euros was financed by the EU, the government of the Netherlands and Serbia. We are about to complete phase two, which is the completion of a line of mud, dystestia of mud and the production of biogas, which is financed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with 500 million dinars. In its 2018 budget, the Ministry provided around 1.8m euros for the construction of the mud line and predicted that in 2018 and 2019, around 1.2m euros for the completion of the construction of the line, and thus the entire waste water treatment plant, were identified in the budget. In the end, as is known, Serbia is currently cleaning up only 8% of waste water. It is known that by 2041 we have to do another 350 water treatment plants worth five billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29820	Thank you. National MP Milija Miletic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29821	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, Serbian citizens, fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment that makes up for the importance of a foreign investor investing in undeveloped areas and investing in agriculture. This is very important because in undeveloped areas, it will mean a lot to the investment of foreign investors, in particular in a healthy environment, in rural tourism, so here in the municipality from which I come, the municipality of Srljig, is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but there are already investors there who will now, these days, open their firms, and that is the Bulgarian investor who will work certain products. On the other hand, in the previous period, together with the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the president of Serbia, we have made our way to the Old Mountain, where there will be a great chance of developing tourism. Once again, I think that with this amendment of mine, which I have submitted, we will put an accent on a stranger who will invest in developed areas and thus support the development and better life of all people living in undeveloped mountain-mounted areas of Serbia. I call on everyone to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29822	The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29823	Thank you, Chairman. When a large number of countries are fighting for as many foreign investment as possible and in the last few years Serbia has been ahead of it, I think the new Foreign Law is an opportunity to define the notion of a "foreigner" in a special way. I'm in Article 3. The proposal for a law on foreigners proposes an amendment adding point 1a, which further defines the term ‘foreigner’. The fact is that foreign investors have employed more than 170,000 workers in Serbia over the past few years. Many of these foreign investors are opening several plants, i.e. several factories in Serbia. Since I also spoke yesterday about the domestic economy being stimulated by the RES and the economy, I would like to note that 560 million dinars are also provided during the first quarter of this year, which also do not have to be returned by businesses, which are related to equipment. This aid is granted at 25% of the value of equipment, 70% are bank loans and leases, and the remaining 5% is the participation of the company itself. Personally, I trust many of my colleagues in the development of domestic economy and private entrepreneurship is a model of Slovakia that has over 90% of small, micro and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29824	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29825	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a serious attitude towards investors is as important as the relationship to investment itself. When there is no proper relationship on this issue, it is one of the main factors for the overall poor economic picture and the various problems on this plan. Mr. James Ruff, head of the IMF mission for Serbia, as we talked about the previous time, together in this room, discussed the economic opportunities in our country once and as they stand today. When it comes to investment and how important they are as a factor in economic opportunities, Mr Ruff, among other things, in the memory and recapitulation of the situation by 2014, says that among the main problems were the real sector, the investment rates were too low. Among other things, Mr Ruff's analysis said that by 2014, GDP had stagnated for six years, tax revenues fell rapidly, government and public enterprises' debts were unsustainably growing, and because of unsustainable high production, Serbia had the second largest budget deficit in Europe, and all of which in years after 2014, according to Mr Ruff, certainly changed in a positive direction. The programme that our country had with the IMF is one of the best in the history of the Fund itself and, according to Mr. Ruff, all the projected results have been exceeded, surpassed in a positive sense. That is why economic opportunities, including the relationship to investment policy, are now in a positive balance and in this way a serious and responsible relationship we are building a successful and modern society. All the opposite DOS Palanca, as some only built at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29826	Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29827	Thank you very much. We have an interesting day in parliament, a large number of amendments proposed by the ruling majority, i.e. only one party, MPs of only one party that makes up the ruling majority, the others are denied the possibility, and all these amendments the Serbian government has refused, but we continue to listen to the inspired arguments of the promoters. Some make mistakes, so they call for votes for these amendments, even though they know they will withdraw them or have already withdrawn them, and others use it to promote the great successes of the current government. I think it's completely legitimate. It's a perfectly legitimate thing, every MP has the right to submit an amendment. He can write what he thinks in that amendment, no matter how pointless, and he can very vigorously defend that nonsense. Of course, the idea that you are proposing something against your government and you know that your government will refuse, so you withdraw it before voting, one small one, I will not say circus, but one small unusual event, but why not, there are talented people who have failed to be members of some amateur, acting groups, so that they can make up for it now and that's the same part of the right of MPs, and that's the same right for anyone who sits in this house to understand and interpret parliamentaryism in their own way, the Rules of Procedure, good customs and all that happens in one parliament. It's very interesting to ask for reliefs to accept our citizenship as foreign investors, and that's a very interesting thing. This is probably due to the fact that no one in their right mind has asked for Serbian citizenship for years, that an enormously larger number of people who, due to their acceptance of other citizenship, are seeking a release from our citizenship and that is the same measure of the value of the work of this government, this government, this president. Of course, I'll probably find some statistical lie that's about to be made among the co-workers of the minister where he'll prove to me that a huge number of people have sought our citizenship, but don't believe it, Serbian citizens, it's a pointless lie. The minister himself said that only 14 migrants from those several hundred thousand, as they say, who have passed through Serbia have sought our citizenship, probably by mistake. What's the point of all this? The goal of all of this isn't really that foreign investors get a privileged position in the reception of our citizenship, because it's completely pointless. It is not their goal to be citizens of Serbia, nor to have any relief as investors if they are citizens of Serbia, they have, and it is quite all right, the same right as investors, whether they are citizens of our country or not, and I do not believe that they need anything in their home, their country, in their society to praise that they are Serbian citizens, if they are not already born or in some natural way. So that's nonsense. Investments in Serbia are not due to investor status, whether he is a foreigner or someone who is our citizen, but are a consequence in the last five, six, seven years, although I see that the period is now divided into some two periods – one through 2014 when the prime minister was a socialist, as I recall, and the other is here since 2014, when the prime minister was president of the SNS, so it is also an interesting picture, a view of modern Serbian history and this coalition itself. These investments are due to the rudeness of offering the cheapest workforce in Europe, according to SNN and many other media. That's what the representatives of this government say with anyone anywhere to meet, it's on the edge of the slave trade, but of course, we're not in slavery, at least not formally, so I'm not saying it's formal, but these big investments that allow citizens to receive 21, 22 thousand and that's why they can't even get time to go to the bathroom to do some of their needs is farce, as is this debate today in parliament farce.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29828	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29829	Of course, just one more sentence, those who want to throw the opposition out of parliament, we are right here to point to everything you are doing, which is disastrous for the state of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29830	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29831	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I'm advertising a 107th violation of dignity, because it really is contrary to absolute morality, anything that anyone who participated in the creation of the 2001 Privatisation Act, by which you could have put a worker on the street out of whatever you wanted and really into the goods to turn him, that he's talking today about how we have cheap labour and whether workers are slaves. That's the kind of policy we've gotten the supposed visionaries to say that we're going to plant peanuts in the Bor mine, and we don't care about the workers. And today, when someone raises even the price of this workforce just by trying to train our workers and finally after 30 years of getting into some factory to do something, because thanks to them, we've ruined all the factories, they've got cheeks today, after such a privatisation law to tell us if the workers are slaves. I'd ask you to react in the future, because this really doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29832	My colleague Djukanovic, I really cannot know if my colleague Zivkovic was then aware of what he was doing and that our workers would be out of a job. I can't read my mind, so I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. First right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, yeah, someone who mentions SNS looks unconscious, from a pure reflex, doesn't even know what he's done, so that's why he doesn't care. Anyway, he did, we heard. What do they say, the repeated notary nonsense on the subject of some slaves, did you say that? So the first problem they haven't seen yet is that they brutally insult people who don't deserve it. To what end, why the need for such persuasion? What someone does, earns their salary, is that a reason, is that someone's own frustration heals in his own way. By what, which was personally unsuccessful and personally unsuccessful in the dimensions of hundreds of thousands, once again, hundreds of thousands of completely lost jobs? It's his results and that's why they bother him, but now he's got the same order of size, but hundreds of thousands of new jobs during Alexander Vukic, during the SNS, which he looks and dreams of, besides mentioning, and he's not aware of it. Now that's why we need to insult some people who do their job fairly, earn their bread and bring it home and call them slaves? Absolutely unacceptable. On the subject of these salaries that are often criticised, someone has to be in this room, if in this room, to listen to the debates both yesterday and the previous week, he would have heard, for example for "Continental", the event from just a few days ago, was attended by Aleksandar Vukic, whom you can't stand, and he says – wages programmers from 850 to 2,500 euros. I'm not sure anyone's under the honor of doing business for this money, on the contrary. But while we are not, of course, talking about it, and it is not about these amendments to the proposal to win Serbian citizenship, it is not necessary to miss out on the idea that some new people might be enrolled in Serbian citizenship, above all, it is in the interest of those who have criticised it a little earlier. It is their interest that someone might appear, who may vote for them by mistake tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29834	You're bringing the end of your colleague, Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29835	People living in Serbia today do not vote for them long ago. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica, mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29836	You never mentioned a colleague to Zivkovic at any point, and I don't know what those words mean to you to be a man. Is that what you're asking me to do with you? To beat me? Am I a coward or what? (Zoran Zivkovic: I am mentioned directly, unlike him. ) Otherwise, counterpart Orlic was given the right to reply because the SNS and SNS president were mentioned twice in a negative context. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29837	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, my fellow farmer, a domestic investor, live proof that the authorities in Serbia did not support only foreign investors, they also supported domestically. He's living proof. It was a tow investor, 525,000 euros. Five hundred twenty-five thousand euros, plus three million dinars. That's how encouraged that domestic investor is. But, look at the wonders, he takes that capital, so he goes to islands called the Virgin Islands, in British brackets, and registers the company "Vinemont Ventures", Tortola, Ray Town, Virgin Islands, British, registration number not to read. We gave him money to open up some jobs, he went to Virgin Islands and set up a company there. After that, he bought an apartment of 500,000 euros in Vrakar. From Nis, he moved to Belgrade. And the vineyards were in Krcedin, registered them on the basis of plots, agricultural land based on land from Merošina, like Krajkovac, makes one galamitijas. The workers who worked in the vineyard were left unpaid. The money is divided between him and Miodrag Kostic. So 1/3 went to "Empres" his firm, the second 1/3 went to Miodrag Kostic, also a big investor he helped while he was prime minister and interior minister of the federals. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what can you expect from such a kind of investor that I don't know whether it's domestic or foreign, it's mostly an empty man full of himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29838	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29839	Articles 106 and 107 are injured. Article 106 says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, no lie can be an excuse for what is said about something that is not a search today. Never, and I can do that, and here I call on the interior minister to check it through the competent services and authorities, I never had any firm that was registered outside the territory of the Serbian state. Never at any time since 1986 when I started doing my private business. Anyone who worked at any of my companies, there were three, four for these 30 and a few years, of course, was paid for his job, so that was true for the people who worked on the vineyard in Krcedin, there in 2007 or 2008 and 2009 and who were employed by the company "The House of Wines Zivkovic". So, not just any suspicious "Asomacum" variant, but a proud name, proud co-owner of a company. This company has been using absolutely legal conditions for subsidies that are now and then, all the winemakers get. No division of money was different from the predecessors, whose close associates still today wear ankles because they were in a relationship with him. So it's about 106, a subject that's completely pointless. Article 107, which speaks of the dignity of the congregation. The present messenger, the speaker of the past, and not only him, violates the dignity of the National Assembly by their presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29840	Comrade Zivkovic, you cannot treat the MPs in such a way as to determine whether their presence is a violation or not. That's what citizens decide in the election. In accordance with Rule 103, since there has been an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the time you have used will be taken from the time of your parliamentary group. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29841	Articles 103, 108 and 109. My colleague, the farmer, took advantage of the replication of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, told a series of lies. That hurt the Rules of Procedure, which is why you should have given him the measures. I am members of 103 and members of 108 and 109, first warning, then warning. I'm holding a registration report where his co-owner on the Virgin Islands was Milos Pudard, a person known for his sugar affair. Also, in this folder, and in his injury to the Rules of Procedure, he repeatedly told the truth, I have all the documentation I can give to anyone, that what I was saying was true, and what he was saying was incorrect, and that it was subject to the penalties of Articles 108 and 109. His company "Empress" disappeared from 138,000 bottles of wine. Tax evasion was $17 million. One more thing to tell you, his company didn't just break up apartments on Vracar, one of the employees went to the Secretary of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, with experience in the production of grapes and wine, without a judicial exam. That's their famous state, that's their famous investment. You, Mr. Chairman, since I have all the documentation, were under obligation at least to warn him not to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since you took that time away from him, I am not asking and I do not insist that you vote on this and give him some measure, because he has already punished himself. Where he comes, that grass doesn't grow, and because of him, in that election night instead of champagne, which he prepared from his winery, they served sugar and water at his headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29842	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29843	I have to say just for the public's sake that I didn't say that 14 migrants were seeking citizenship, but asylum. So this is about asylum, the asylum procedure is a completely separate matter, unrelated to it. On the other hand, I have to say that when this amendment is being considered when it comes to incentives and strengthening the economy of the Republic of Serbia, we had a situation where people who are getting paid today, for example. in "Maty", where the average salary is, thousands of people work at "Maty" where the average salary is 55,000 dinars, these people have previously, most of them, had zero dinar salaries. Those people who were pushed into the famous folk cuisine at the time of those authorities, where they had nothing to gain either because they were not full, these people today have jobs to live with dignity from their work. Are those salaries ideal? No, but they're better than zero, they're better than being told, where someone's giving you something you couldn't make, because nobody gave you a chance to work in your country. When you were losing your jobs, when these people were left without a future, when they were leaving the country for real, nobody was talking to them, nobody cared about their future. Sometimes some MPs say -- here, the minister is doing housekeeping with the services, don't trust them, they'll lie everything, and then the second time he says -- check with the Home Secretary, let him give us information about whether I did this or that. Then the ministry's services either lie or lie, but you can't use them because these people are employees of the ministry who have been committed to the security of the Republic of Serbia for years and I won't let anyone insult them without me reacting. These people are serious professionals who have worked in service for years in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and I ask you to show that kind of respect to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29844	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29845	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, the area of movement and residence of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, must be arranged in such a way as to ensure, above all, the highest level of respect for human rights, but at the same time to ensure the highest degree of security and legal certainty both for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and foreign citizens entering, staying and investing in our country. The current provisions of the Foreign Law have identified certain problems and legal gaps that need to be removed by adopting a new legal act that in a comprehensive way regulates the area of movement and residence of foreigners with their business that wants to boost the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, more precisely defining the rights and obligations of foreign citizens entering, staying and moving in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the new Foreign Law should overcome the problems identified during the application of the current law. What's fundamental is that investors go where it's mostly safe. Serbia is a safe country, Serbia is a country of rule of law, and therefore this number of investors of those who are now investing and who are due to come to the country. The fact that some come to parliament at noon and after coffee and three double vines give nonstop lectures here is not worth commenting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29846	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29847	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I wanted to define in this amendment a foreign investor who, by his overall engagement, influences dual education. I must say that against the introduction of dual education were all opposition political parties in this high school, although dual education is the greatest teaching modern trend and, I might say, the pedagogical achievement in the world. With dual education we get everyone, gets an investor, gets a state and gets a owner. Finally, let me say that the MUP can really be satisfied in 2017 because in several elements it has achieved the greatest success in the last ten years. For a short period of time, I won't explain it. I'll just give you two information. Because of Serbian citizens, in 2017, the MUP seized 4.1 tonnes of narcotics, the best result in the last ten years. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the opposition parties? The second data, the MUP has reduced the number of crimes to 91,283, which is the smallest number of crimes in the last ten years. Isn't that right, gentlemen of the opposition bench? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29848	Thank you. The People's MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29849	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Associates, the honourable fellow MPs, certainly the importance of these legislative regulations and the importance of the MUP in the foreign investment environment at all, especially when today's smallest details decide with some investor on which side. We are the only ones who are fighting for foreign investment and many have come to Serbia thanks to some of the smallest details, and perhaps some of them are hiding in these legislations. We talked about companies operating in Serbia. It should be noted that by the middle of last year, 10,576 sites were better active in Serbia, 1,111 of which were in Belgrade, Novi Sad 723 in Nis 301, in Subotica 244, in Kragujevac 213. And there are a lot of foreign investors and workers from other countries present. When, as an argument, you only have insults and you, as an argument, only remain personally offended at the expense of President Alexander Vukic, his associates, when the only argument, let's say, of the work of Mayor Cynthia Malo remains the fact that at the expense of his last name, I can make some joke that's just funny to them, then the thing is clear. Our people say, "There is no softer pillow than a calm conscience." Let them stay with their tabloids, and in front of us is a board with a sign that we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29850	Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Yokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29851	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, for me, this is a technical question, one, and two, the implications of everything we've talked about in the previous amendments, or in the previous members. Why is this a technical question? Because Article 3, paragraphs 1 to 29 define the terms and terms used in this law. It's a normal and integral part of every law. The term ‘foreigner’ is defined in point 1. I believe that, in addition to this term that is defined here and explained very well and very much, it is necessary, based on everything that we have talked about and what is important for our country, to define the concept, that is, the word "foreigner - investor". Why? To make a difference, because that difference is very important and that difference is what we talked about all the time in the previous day and we're going to talk about in future amendments. That's why I think this amendment is necessary because then this law would be complete. Now I want to say something about wages. It is true that the initial salaries are small, but all of our workers who work in foreign businesses, if they show sufficient knowledge funds and if they stand out very quickly, become bosses. These salaries are true that at the beginning they are small, but for good workers, for professional workers they are much bigger, even twice as big. With the dual education my colleague spoke of, the number of these workers will be increasing every day. Gentlemen, education was destroyed in 2000. In education instead of educators, psychologists entered, instead of overseeing professional people, in math classes, in classes of the economic group of subjects, I was the director, the beginners came, members of certain political parties who ended up not knowing which universities, private, etc., to supervise. Imagine being monitored when the content is not known, but just looking at the shape, and I could say a lot of things. So, I'm in favour and I think for technical reasons it's necessary for this amendment to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29852	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jovovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Jovović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29853	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, as the entire bill applies to foreigners through, it is necessary to define the very notion of a foreign investor to which the provisions of this law apply. The reason for submitting this amendment is precisely defining the notion of a foreigner, an investor. On a clear case of the city to Novi Pazar in the readmission process that has been current over the past few years, a large number of people from Western European countries have returned to Novi Pazar with foreign status. Of course, the Republic of Serbia has helped integrate this group into everyday life in various projects and programmes. With investor arrival planning, it is necessary to separate the notion of foreign investors. With the investor's arrival planning, it is necessary to define the notion of a foreigner with everything else. The adoption of this amendment will soon determine what persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who intend to improve our country's economic development and contribute to the prosperity of the economy that has already been seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29854	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29855	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, several times in the debate yesterday and today you said that 170,000 people were employed by foreign investors in Serbia. You have repeated 170 thousand families in Serbia today living better than before 2012, it is one whole town of Kragujevac. In four years, the government in which you were a member with Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, whose role is undeniable and you in the government, of course we in the Assembly have contributed slightly to making Serbia look completely different today. When we pass laws in parliament, when today I pass a law on foreigners to Article 3 where I say that a foreign investor in fact, I understand that the Government may not want to accept my amendment, but it is a message of gratitude from the Assembly and from our MPs that when someone comes, as much as they hire 170 thousand people, one Kragujevac. That's the least Serbia can say to them is a big thank you. Thanks to them, of course, to domestic investors, Serbia today looks completely different. When you look at not only the number of employees, but also GDP growth, when you look at the inflation rate, that's what the SNS received support from Serbian citizens in 2012, and in 2018, in the Belgrade elections, it only confirmed more.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29856	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29857	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as MP and president of the People's Peasants' Party, I must make one comparison. In Vojvodina alone, we have a farmland of 1,680,000 hectares. The Netherlands has as much but far less quality. The Netherlands currently stands out 79, or exports 79 billion euros in agricultural and food products, Serbia 3.2. Our surplus is 1.6. Denmark, which has slightly less agricultural land than Serbia exports 23 billion. We need to learn something from them. The EU's perspective as they say in the coming period is a little mixed agricultural land. Many of the Serbs, originally Serbs do not have our citizenship, so amendments make sense. Maybe one of them can't accept our citizenship for administrative reasons right now, and maybe he'd be in processing and small agricultural production, maybe the Russians would. Here, the minister knows. My village, which has 3,200 inhabitants, has been inhabited by several Russian families. They get a temporary stay, now they get a permanent stay some of them, one family that has seven children is engaged in agricultural production and small processing, and it lives and is satisfied. I don't understand the opposition's colleagues, why they're so opposed to curbing poverty in that way. It would be easy for us to feed the hungry and the poor, but we can't feed those investors of theirs who are always hungry and sloppy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29858	Thank you. The People's MP Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr Stojljkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29859	I thank the chairman. I propose an amendment to add the term - a foreigner - to point out that the investor is a person who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and who, by his business, encourages economic development and the end of poverty. Foreign investment is definitely an indicator of economic growth in one country, economic and business stability. Serbia only attracted about 2.6 billion foreign direct investments in the previous year and that was more than all other countries combined in the region. The direct benefit of this is that this money goes into the budget, and the indirect benefit is that the stranger hires, pays taxes in our country and, of course, invests. Strong investment growth is the result of two factors. One is strengthening the economy in Europe, and the other is very important to us, and this is the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all ministries to strengthen business, promotional activities, business environment reforms and naturally investment packages. Serbia is currently negotiating around 54 investment projects worth 2.5 billion that should bring Serbia around 29,000 jobs. Those projects that are very close, these are two companies and these are high-tech companies from Germany, which each should employ about 1,000 workers in Serbia and, of course, there are a number of new investments. So Serbia is the only country that has managed, in addition to fiscal consolidation, to strengthen its economy, to increase employment and end the previous financial year in the surplus as next, of course, of the financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29860	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29861	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I'm reporting for the amendment, so I'm going to be a little bit more extensive for the citizens of Serbia. The opposition MPs were saying yesterday that we MPs of the ruling coalition are submitting pointless amendments and that we will withdraw them. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, counterpart Tomic and I have submitted amendments to the Budget Law and have not withdrawn them, but have voted on them. We have now tabled amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act on the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. The implementation of the 2030 agenda that our government signed is essential primarily because of our citizens, their better lives, and only because of meeting the conditions for EU accession. The 2030 agenda has 17 objectives. I will list them tax-free: - a world without poverty, a world without hunger, good health, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitary conditions, available and renewable energy, decent work and economic growth, industry of innovation, infrastructure, reduction of inequality, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, climate action, life under water, life on earth, peace, justice and strong institutions, partnership to the goal. We submitted amendments to the proposal for a law on foreigners, and therefore we talked about foreign investments. I repeat, the Investment Law has brought together foreign and domestic investors and they all have the same right and no one is favored. We fight for every investment, for every investor, whether it's foreign or domestic. Take a look at the site of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Development Bank of Serbia, the Development Fund, the Department for the Business of the City of Belgrade, the National Employment Service, and subsidies for domestic entrepreneurs are offered everywhere. We don't favour, I repeat, foreign investors. Of course, there's more money out there, because our people are poored by the policy of the previous government. The government of the Republic of Serbia, our President Aleksandar Vukic, successfully treats the consequences of such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29862	Thank you. The People's MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29863	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given that foreign investors are investing in the opening of new jobs, in the opening of new production plants, and thus affecting the reduction of unemployment, I believe that the Foreigner Law, in Article 3, should be found a provision that is currently referring to defining the concept of foreign investor. A great deal of attention is being paid to developing and raising the economy and creating conditions for new employment. The fact is that Serbia has become much more attractive with a much more favourable economic environment and that is what is recognised. This fact has also been influenced by political and financial stability and has also contributed to the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia and all ministries and our President, Aleksandr Vukic. The deficit has been reduced and it has actually been turned into a budget surplus and Serbia is now a stable and balanced state. Strengthening the country's macroeconomic situation, increasing resistance to potential negative impacts, and it is certain that the results achieved in the Republic of Serbia are recognised everywhere, appreciated, supported and commended. All these measures affect investors' determination to invest heavily in our country, to create new jobs, and to have their incentive just to achieve financial stability. It is largely working to bring Serbian legislation into line with the EU, but also to implement reforms. Also, much has been done to fight crime and corruption. These are all the conditions that were necessary to prepare for investment at all. Serbia has improved its economic environment and has reached conditions for new employment and employment cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29864	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. A colleague of Filipovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29865	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I won't be long, simply, here's the debate going on for a few days and things are perfectly clear, the citizens are following us, citizens next to TV broadcasts, besides what they're listening to from members, they've fallen apart, they've failed, however, they're not even for the opposition's van anymore, but they don't exist, they know what they've experienced, those minus 3% of the growth, which for them were huge, brilliant, fantastic, chance for Serbia to develop. It was just a chance to develop them and their private interests. Today, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are developing and moving forward. That's what's very important, that citizens live better, not us who do politics. That's why Serbia today has close to 3% growth. We had the opportunity to see what it looked like, when they talked about investment, European integration, to God's development and Serbia's progress, then Serbia made so much progress, that there were 25% of the unemployed in Serbia, today there are 12%. Well, I agree, at that time it was perfect and everyone lived great, but there were twice as many unemployed as today. Also, they were doing so great that 500,000 people were out of a job. One lost job was measured every second, we lost a second, today we get jobs, 170 thousand new jobs in the previous four years, over 60 new factories. There are not, as some say, salaries at 20,000 dinars, wages, here we heard, 55,000 dinars, 1000, 2000 euros, depending on where and what kind of company the citizens work in. Of course, in order to do so, it was necessary for the MUP, one of the key factors in politics, to do those jobs that it did in the fight against corruption and crime, and in this sense I am giving strong support to Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the MUP to continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29866	Thank you. The National MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29867	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, as well as known economic development is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, evidence of this in practice is the recently opened Hilton hotel in Belgrade, an elite five-star hotel in the very heart of Belgrade, the fifth facility of this kind in our capital. The Hilton management believes Serbia is a very important destination for them, quite logically, since over a million foreign tourists visited Belgrade last year and a 750m-euro profit was made. Belgrade has become a very attractive destination for foreigners. With the growth of 11.2% tourists registered in January this year compared to January last year, we have a clear picture that Belgrade has become our world city. This also supports the fact that investment in the hotel industry is long-term, which means that foreign investors have firm convictions that growth will be even higher in the future, especially when all planned development projects that the government of the Republic of Serbia will implement in the coming years are taken into account. Let us not forget that the arrival of foreign tourists in this number opens up the possibility that our small business, the caterers will open restaurants with national cuisines, guests with the highest number of Israel, China, Turkey, etc. World trade chains, which the government has drawn to Serbia, such as IKEE and LIDL, are also a parameter that Serbia is a reliable economic partner. It is especially important that these trade chains, they hire our people evenly across Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29868	Thank you. The People's MPs George Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 3rd Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Komlenski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29869	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, respected ministers with associates, we have recognised the need to be in the department – the meaning of the term in Article 3 of the amendment complements this member – where it is said that the foreign investor is a person who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and who, by his business, promotes economic development and greater social equality. My colleagues were talking about the pragmatic need of it, meaning life. I will stick to what is related to the legal profession, and I will say that this is necessary, by my assessment, regarding Article 67 of position 9 of this proposal, and Article 68 of Section 1 of point 4. Namely, in order to avoid confusion as to who the foreign investors are, and who the stays in which migrants may be, and since Article 67, paragraph 9, is prescribed that the conditions for the approval of a permanent stay are closer to the minister responsible for internal affairs, and that Article 68, point 4, which has been granted a temporary stay if it is imposed by reasons of humanity or is of interest to the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that this provision, which speaks to the foreign investor, would allow, in these situations, precisely because it is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, that this procedure further facilitates the possibility of achieving the objective of making it easier, easier, simpler, easier, easier for foreign investors to come and invest funds in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29870	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Krinakapić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29871	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. "The foreign investor is a person who has no citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and who, by his business, encourages the economic development of undeveloped municipalities." This amendment defines the notion of an investor foreigner who, by its business, promotes the economic development of undeveloped municipalities. It is important by law to define the notion of investors, given that investments are an engine of the economy and economic development of each country precisely because of its many positive effects, from reducing unemployment to raising productivity and improving living standards primarily in undeveloped municipalities. A lot of factors favour Serbia compared to countries in the region when we talk about the benefits of attracting foreign investment, and with the continued improvement of the business environment through the adoption and application of these and other laws can certainly provide a good basis for Serbia's ever-increasing positioning as an investment destination in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29872	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29873	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I really wonder how it is possible that those who have put the amendments "is deleted", today comment on the meaning of the amendments tabled by the SNS MPs? Can you compare the blank paper on one side with all the essential sentences we heard during yesterday's and today's presentation? I'll talk about this amendment. First of all, it is necessary for this amendment to clearly define the legal concept and terminology of a foreign investor for the reason that this term is introduced for the first time by a foreign investor. It is necessary in a careful way, in a more detailed way, to define that term and what that term means. What is already proposed is that under this term any person who does not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, who, by his business and work, encourages the development of both the Serbian state and local self-government. I think the term is adequate, the definition is adequate and precisely in the desired way defines an investor, or stranger who wants to invest in our country. Also, here in some previous exhibitions, I heard a comment that it excluded domestic investors. What I can say is that I absolutely deny all of this because investors and domestics in this country are equal in absolutely any way or legal act, nor are primates prejudged, foreign investors' priorities or domestic ones, but if something is introduced as a concept, as a new concept, it is necessary that there is one precise and detailed definition of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29874	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Third Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29875	Thank you. Respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, this amendment contributes to Serbia's foreign investors being a place with a favourable business environment and Serbia is certainly more and more every day a place with a favourable business environment, and in addition to that it says kilometers of highways built, kilometers of highways being built, 55 factories that are open across Serbia, 170,000 new jobs in Serbia. The town of Leskovac, from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high house, is from the old National Alliance for Local and Economic Development, certified as a guard with a favourable business environment and I have had the privilege and privilege of four years coordinating the city certification team. What I can proudly say is that the management of the town of Leskovci has created such an economic environment in which existing businessmen expand their production capacities, but we also have the arrival of new investors. I would like to point out that Aptiv in the green zone in Leskovac is rapidly building a new factory where the job will receive 2,500 of my fellow citizens. In addition to the fact that foreign investors in Leskovac are expanding their production capacities, and domestic investors are expanding their production capacities. What my impression on the visit of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic Leskovac, a company called Bane Komerc, which employs 250 workers, is on the question of the prime minister – what is it that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can do to meet this businessman to hire as many workers as possible, was that Serbia has provided a stable course of dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29876	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29877	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, the Republic of Serbia has gained a great reputation in the international community because it has dedicated itself to human rights. She's gained a great degree of democracy, and how? Just in 2014 to 2016, more than a million migrants have passed through our country. We fixed the image of Serbia because we showed a great degree of empathy, dignity, humanity. It's one of the conditions for foreign investors. The other one's a lot of security. Third, the fiscal policy and its heavy measures that have fully recovered the economy. What's most important is that our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, leads a peaceful policy. He has friends in both the east and the west, and all these investors want to invest in Serbia. It should be noted that the largest percentage of these investors is investing in our country and that is about 40% in the Western Balkans. A good example of practice is the town of Kruševac, which until a few years ago was completely devastated thanks to the nice opposition, and today, in 2016, a contract was concluded. In 2017 and 2018 400 workers were employed with a tendency to be a thousand workers in 2018 and in 2022, 2,500 workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29878	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29879	Thank you. Chairman, I must confess that I have committed a great sin, which is that I have dared to submit the amendment to Article 3 despite the opposition of the on-call experts sitting across from me and I hope they will forgive me. If we take into account all that is seen during the application of the existing law, therefore, the current law, all the problems that this law needs to overcome, and which is very precisely defined in the analysis of the effects of the Foreign Law, then it is clear that a more precise definition of the norms relating to the three key segments must be implemented. So it is the entry, stay and movement of foreign citizens in Serbia. If we take into account all other objective circumstances regarding migration and on the European agenda, but the aim of Serbia is to be harmonised adequately with EU legislation, in this case I mean EU directives relating to the area of migration, then it is clear that the adoption of this law is necessary and we all here have a full consensus on this issue. It is also important to point out here that both the powers and tasks of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, which apply this law, are more precisely defined. So all of this will affect the quality of doing jobs in the area both of the movement and the residence of foreigners and foreign citizens in our country, and thus also of a greater degree of security and legal certainty, both Serbian citizens and foreign citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29880	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29881	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, for attracting foreign investment are very important good laws and I think the MUP has done a very good job with this Foreign Law and it will help investors to get into our country and invest, and what I also think is important is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did in January, which is what brought an important sublegal act to attract investors, which is the Regulation on conditions and how to attract direct investments. This Regulation defined that the funds can be allocated to investment projects in the manufacturing sector where the investment costs and amounts to at least 100 000 euros are justified and which provide for the opening of at least 10 jobs indefinitely, if they are classified in municipalities in devasted or undeveloped areas. It is further prescribed that the more developed the municipality, more investment is needed, thus conditions for the most developed municipalities to create at least 50 jobs and to invest at least 500 000 euros. The amount of subsidies per job granted to investors also depends on the degree of development of the investment municipality, so the investor can get about 3,000 euros per job if it invests in the most developed municipalities, up to 7,000 euros per job if it invests in undeveloped and devasted municipalities. As for the justification of these investor subsidies, according to an analysis done by the World Bank for the Internal Needs of the Ministry of Industry, which monitored 30 projects for the period from October 2015 to January 2017, companies have made investments worth 340m euros, and hired 21,000 276 workers. Net wages range from 504 euros in "ESR Technix" to 183 euros in "Aster textile". The state has raised these 30 companies with a total of 125.4m euros, which is about 5,898 euros per job on average. The business analysis concluded that the total amount of expected public revenues of 512m euros, i.e. the total amount of expected State revenues, is 4.08 times higher than the approved amount of subsidies. Also, the analysis showed that the expected time to recover subsidies through public revenues is 14.07 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29882	Thank you. The People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29883	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment defining the notion of foreign investors. The purpose of this amendment, as well as any other amendments that I have proposed, is to examine in a complementary manner the procedural rules in the decision-making process on the rights and obligations of foreigners, which also protects and fundamentally postulates and legality, and thus the market rights of all participants within the national economy system and the established market order of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say that the proposed Law on Foreigners has quality and concisely defined all the fields of action in the direction of removing previous gaps and the dangers of abstract interpretation of certain items, so that, in relation to these amendments which I have submitted and all others which I have submitted to this text of the bill, they do not aim to question the legal and technical nature of those items, but, in their nature, represent a complementary component of individual members and attitudes within the same. As far as the city of Nisa is concerned, I must say, as the Serbian Progressive Party arrives in power in the city, it has begun to work, dear citizens. The work of local self-government takes place in four directions, it is support for investments, industrial and commercial investments, strategic planning of urban development, projects with external funding, with and without the participation of the city of Nis and the improvement of the business environment, and I will discuss it more closely next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29884	Thank you. By amendment, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29885	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not say that this amendment by Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic, as well as the other amendments of other colleagues from the ruling majority, has no purpose or purpose. In fact, for me, this purpose is questionable and there is no political framework that can make me not vote in favour of an amendment that can bring economic prosperity, development of education, agriculture, justice, etc. But I'm afraid my colleagues from the ruling side will make it possible for me. They won't come to the agenda, so I can make a statement about them. In fact, it is a matter of purpose, a team before the Government says these amendments are irrelevant and that this amendment by colleague Mrdakovic Todorovic is irrelevant to the matter this law explains today. Then you question the purpose of these amendments? I know what the point is – in fact, to prevent us, here I, or my colleagues, from talking to the minister in a fair, parliamentary debate on this law. Do not blame the opposition MPs for perhaps not present at the session today. Who wants to listen to the literary works of the ruling majority MPs? Nobody. It is a matter to discuss perhaps with the National Assembly, if such things continue at the next session, and at the next session, it is simply a question of the participation of the opposition and my own in such sessions. So that's what I want to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29886	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29887	As an authorised representative of the government, I want to explain what the government's position is on these amendments. So the government doesn't say that these amendments don't make sense. The government says this - we have a set of different laws that regulate the right of foreign investors and ways they can improve investment in this country. And we say that we are completely in agreement with the essence of these amendments, and I say that as an authorised representative of the government, only we believe that, in some different places, we can formulate differently, that is, through different laws, through their partial use, we get this continent. And that is why the government disagreed, or did not accept these amendments to the MPs. The point is yes, but in different places, in different laws, in different ways, and that's something that we've come to debate with a number of MPs, to explain what the government's position is. So, at no point did the government say that these amendments were not good or that they were doing something bad. We think that they are one continent that can be formulated in a different way and we are precisely because of different formulations, and through different laws, not only through this law, but through different other laws that define the position and role of foreign investors in our country, we have not accepted amendments. Because I heard here that it turns out that the government is thinking all the worst about these amendments. That's not true. I just wanted to explain this, because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching, and, of course, it's the right of the National Assembly, which is the final judge, what accepts and what doesn't and the government has to respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29888	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. (Dejan Nikolic: Replica. ) He can do it by amendment, since the minister just answered. (Dejan Nikolic: Yes. ) Here you go, the word has a colleague, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29889	The question arises – what actually determines the essence, if you say the essence of these amendments is good. It's determined by content. And you say for the content, literally, the word you wrote in the explanation that this amendment is not relevant to the matter governed by this law. So now you're saying the contents aren't relevant, but they're essential. The point is irrelevant, what you actually wrote. These amendments, I didn't say they were pointless, they have their own meaning, but that meaning is questioned and the meaning of these amendments is actually that we don't talk to you in a correct parliamentary debate on the essence of the law. We have amendments that have its essence and you haven't rejected them because their essence is irrelevant, but because from certain, perhaps political, perhaps essential things, you want to make a different concept out of this law. We want to talk like that, as in principle debate. And that debate, short, because it lasted, I don't know how short, in a few hours, it was very parliamentary. We asked you, you answered. It's the essence of this home. It's not essential that we listen to three days of praise about what the government is doing. That's legitimate, but that can't be the point. As the essence is irrelevant, that's what you said, and I confirm, because it is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29890	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29891	Here, I will read to you the truth of what it says in the explanation - the government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the law regulates the rights and obligations of foreigners in Serbia, and whether a foreign investor or not is relevant for the norm of the matter of this law. So, in this particular case, the government only says that part of the amendment that norms whether the holder of a right is a foreign citizen, whether he is an investor or not, is not in this law relevant to his normisation, because the government does not see the normisation of the law in such a way. We see it as perhaps important in the Investment Act, but that doesn't mean that this content is bad, just not in this law. That's what the government thinks. I say again, the law is not passed by the government, the law is passed by the National Assembly. The National Assembly, if it decides that through this law it norms it, will become an obligation for everyone to respect it and from that moment on will be normalized through that law. It was just mine that on behalf of the Government, I believe that we think it can be normized through some other law, but that doesn't mean that the National Assembly has to accept it, and that doesn't mean that the essence, or content of it, is bad. It's just, we think he should be standing elsewhere, and that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29892	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted one amendment, as my colleagues in DOS say, so I shall call them, who is irrelevant, but I have no one left to lead the controversy with. Apparently, DOS remains escaped from this assembly. There's none of them, and they say they want to have a dialogue with someone. Well, I guess he'll go with his fellow MPs first. I've been listening these few days to their mourners, about how someone's keeping them from talking. No one prevents them, only within what time belongs to them. They want to stop us from talking, they want us to participate in the debates. The purpose of the amendment is either to fix the text of the amendment or to send a political message. I cannot understand that my fellow MPs have not learned anything in these past four or five years, and that in the first place they lost the 2012 elections, but we had the elections in 2014, we also had 2016 and extraordinary parliamentary elections and local elections, we had 2017 presidential elections, we had local elections in Belgrade in 2018. They learned nothing from their mistakes, that their appearance and their participation in the debates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gave them no more votes, but rather fewer. So the purpose, one of the purposes of our submission of the amendment, is to teach colleagues from DOS something from their work, to see that their policy, which was in fact a hack of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, is slowly toss them out of the political life of the Republic of Serbia. They don't do their programs, they don't do their work, they do our work, they want to keep us quiet, they want to ban us from talking about the results that are in Serbia. Personally, I believe that the former DOS should remain here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a reminder to us, who now support governments and some future ones who will rule Serbia, as political parties and politicians pass by when they exercise power, and think of themselves. And therefore, Mr. Minister, here you are, and vice-president of the Government, perhaps we should put some names in the amendments to the Constitution to ensure that their mandate is guaranteed, because it will be very boring here without them in the National Assembly, and maybe we should consider reducing the censorship, I don't know, for them from the parties who supported DOS to one, one and a half, two percent. I don't know, I guess that'll be enough for them to get into parliament. There's another problem we can solve. Imagine that after some of the next elections, two lists were included in the Serbian parliament that were on the same line before the elections. This slowly, but certainly leads us to a single-party system and we would be a single country in Europe with a single-party system, but not because of the party that exercises power, but because of the DOS that is unable to win 5% of the votes. And if we couldn't stand these amendments, even a natural threshold of 14,000 votes, they could only be transferred with a jump stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29894	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go, colleague Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29895	Mr. Minister, it was an excellent and timely reaction when you protected the officers of the MUP from an attack that came from the opposition's representatives. In fact, by such a reaction you have protected the state, you have responded to protect the state, because we can hardly imagine a more serious inflow of foreign investment and more serious stability unless we have respect for the state. It was those who viewed the state as prey, who viewed the public sector as prey, that is how they reacted when they dared to attack the officials of the MUP. But, in general, the change in attitude towards the state administration and in general towards the institutions in the Republic of Serbia, we talked about the judiciary, and of course, a very important role in creating and creating an environment for attracting foreign investment has a state administration, it has just contributed to such an inflow and an increase in foreign investment. From the public administration, where party employment was being carried out, whoever wanted it, who performed only tasks that were put by the then government, went towards professionalisation, rationalisation and efficiency. That there is no functioning of the state administration and that there are no laws passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, which created this environment, I will remind you that the whole new laws on the general administrative procedure have been passed, that a new Law on administrative disputes has been passed, that the National Academy of Public Administration has been formed, they have created this environment, they have created institutions, they have created trust in the state and they create and create a new public servant that is a condition and that is certainly the basis of what will be in the perspective of an incentive for attracting foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29896	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29897	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with colleagues from the MUP, respected citizens, the Foreign Law, a very short title, but very important for the Republic of Serbia and the importance of foreigners at the moment, especially in this amendment relating to the special emphasis and separation of foreigners as foreigners and investors, speaks sufficiently about how much we as the National Assembly and as MPs are committed to just bringing investors. Personally, I, of course, and most of my fellow Members of Parliament, participate in the talks and just bringing investors to our whole Serbia. I also participated directly with fellow National MP Matic, with the president of the municipality of Ilinčić from Koceljeva in bringing "Kalina Fashion" to Koceljeva, 300 jobs in 2015 opened and as a result of good business in 2018, the same investor, in question Verdi Emmanuele, signed a contract with the state to encourage and create new 130 jobs in Ub municipality. Talks with the president of the municipality and his associates provided the best conditions. What I would like to especially point out and point out is that all the talks with Emanuel Verdi and any other foreign investor begin at one point, which is exactly Alexander Vukic. Talks with him when people see who runs this Serbia, how they will work, and that they are literally opened all doors from any ministry to any government and of course to the President of the Republic himself, then these foreign investors know who they are dealing with and know they will come to the right state. What I'm just saying at the end is that the opposition from the Assembly doesn't just throw out the president, neither the chairman, nor any of the ruling coalition, toss them out with their votes and their election choices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29898	Thank you, colleague Birmancevic. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29899	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 that defines the concepts, because I think it is very important to include the term "foreign investor". Why do I say that? Because I come from Kruševac, a town Kruševac who was in a high position until 2000, in fourth place in the old Yugoslavia. But that Dossmanian company, the yellow, the thieving company, I can say quite freely, has destroyed my city, huge giants like "14. October, Trayla, Zupa Chemical Industry, Merima Chemical Industry, Rubina, oil factories and not to list others. They destroyed, they put the locks on, those who are ashamed to sit here today and listen when we speak of the successes of this government. Fortunately, in 2012, citizens showed us confidence and recognized the strength of Alexander Vukic and other SNS leaders. I must also point out that my city's fellow citizen Mr. Bratislav Gasic has done a lot for Kruševac, of course, with the great support of Mr. Vukic, they have returned the Kruševec to a nicer glow. And in this newsletter that we published two years ago, the successes and their merits for my city's better looks. Free colleagues can come and take a look at all of this, and they can walk 200km from here and see what the city now looks like with SNS at its head, and what it looked like in 2012 when it was completely devastated, maltene, an area on the brink of destruction. That is why citizens are giving more and more support to SNS and Kraševec with over 65%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29900	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. The People's Messenger Bojanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29901	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, as well as all my amendments and this amendment, the objective of this amendment is to strengthen the government's efforts towards the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, normally with the 2030 agenda and the UN Protocol, where we are talking in one of the segments about decent work and economic growth. I think that this amendment, as well as all the amendments submitted by my distinguished colleagues, is talking about our desire to improve and help the government of the Republic of Serbia in its work. I would refer to the comments of colleagues on the other side of the debt, who do not allow us to have the right to express our opinion and to submit amendments to certain laws. Those who have tabled 200 proposals to supplement the agenda, 1350 amendments and speak of not having time to work is an excuse. I'm not surprised, I'm not surprised because on the other side there are people sitting on the other side, and I apologize to the others, who haven't even read Politika's entertainer in their childhood, and it looks like they read Alan Ford and their idols were Sir Oliver and Super Hick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29902	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristić and Milorad Mirčić and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29903	The amendment has been submitted to a member who regulates gender equality. I am sorry that here among us is not our esteemed colleague Zoran Krasic, so that he explains to you in more detail, as an excellent lawyer, what is equality in the right, literal sense of words. What is related to this story, the explanation of the SRS, when it comes to complete this law is an explanation given by the minister that the government is still considering the possibility of putting these amendments, the good amendments, into some other laws. It would be a shame, really, to drop that opportunity to install something of this quality into other laws, especially these explanations. In your unmoved explanations, you don't take care of anything that's very, very important. This article that you explain, which regulates the general concept of what a "foreigner" is, has forgotten that in this discrimination, when it comes to the status of a stranger, the family of Alexander Vukic is a party to our laws, as is mine. Why didn't you make sure that in your reasonings you gave these people who are Serbs who live in the Federation the opportunity to make it easier for them not to have the treatment of foreigners. I also talk about those who are part of the Alexander Vukic family, as well as mine, who come to study in Serbia and have the treatment of foreigners because they live in the Federation. You've forgotten that, and some are zealously forgetting to mention Alexander Vukic. It's a good thing there's a conflict, positive, inside the SNS. I see you're criticizing Vesic, Sinisha Mali, just keep it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29904	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29905	Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, I think that, Mr. Minister and the esteemed representatives of the MUP, I am obliged to point out one more time, I would say, a contradiction that has been going on here for several days in this parliamentary debate, which is why we had to submit amendments to delete members of the proposed law. In fact, if I understand the parliamentary democratic procedure well, Mr. Minister, the government on behalf of the ruling majority is proposing certain laws. You consulted with your MPs, with your parties, and when you came up with all this, you went to the Assembly and you said, "This is the best law possible." Then why the 350 amendments of your MPs to the ruling majority, which correct your law. You didn't consult, you don't talk to each other, you're in a fight? What's your problem? So why are you, the MPs of the ruling majority, correcting the government's draft law with 340 amendments? Is it a bad bill? Say so, Mr. Minister. It doesn't matter what Mr. Minister is, whatever it is, in SNS, tell him - excuse me, Mr. Minister, the wrong bill, we had to hand over 350 amendments to show you how the law is written. If the variant is that the Government responds to every amendment of yours and says – the government does not accept this amendment because you simply have no idea about the matter of this law, then, gentlemen, the MPs of the ruling majority, in the problem, you are obviously wrong somewhere, you do not understand in the procedure of submitting amendments, you do not understand the law, you did not understand with your own government, and that is the paradox that we point to here. Perhaps you are doing all this to obstruct the work of the Assembly and to stifle the opposition's voice by submitting pointless amendments. Look out, there's got to be some of this. So my only appeal is that, very correct and very fair to the public, so if the government is doing its job well, what do you stand for 350 amendments? Never with 350 amendments has anyone changed the law proposed by the government, because it says that the government is not doing well. If the government is doing well, it has good legal proposals, then you're not doing well, because your government rejects all your amendments. I must repeat for the public, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected all amendments proposed by the ruling majority of the SNS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and thus sent a clear message – sorry, MPs from the government have no idea, they have no idea. Or, it's okay, admit it, like Marijan Risticevic, who only went out and said openly, that the public can hear – we do this on purpose to take all the time in the assembly debate, that the opposition could not speak, that we simply obstruct the work of the Assembly, and we admit that these amendments are pointless and that they make no sense. My goal is just to clear things up, I have no other purpose. The minister came here quite correctly, presenting the story of an important law, arguing about the relationship to the migrant crisis, he argues, we argue second, and that is the real issue of the assembly debate that you are obstructing by pointless amendments. The minister doesn't need your help, I think Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic could have come here and discussed with us completely competently and normally without the help of your 40 amendments to every member you don't allow the opposition to speak to the minister anymore. That's where I want to score. If you, Mr. Minister, have a good law and come with pride to the National Assembly and you look forward to me talking to you to prove to me how good the law is...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29906	Thank you. You've wasted your time, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29907	Thank you. You don't need the help of pointless amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29908	Thank you. Our list is full. Comrade Rističević, please wait a minute, be patient. Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29909	Thank you, Chairman. It's simple, you shouldn't have allowed it. The Rules of Procedure in Rule 107 have been broken. My predecessor says, in fact, two previous speakers that we don't understand anything, that we don't know the amendments, that we don't understand with the government, that we don't understand each other in procedure. We understand each other very well in procedures and amendments, and we understand well with the government, but we understand the people best. The elections showed it last week, obviously with the people we understand best, and I think it is in Serbia's political life and most important. As they understand each other with the people we've seen in the last two years, in the last year of two choices, so somewhere on one or two percent of them understand each other. We understand, of course, the people of the Federation, Republika Srpska when it comes to citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29910	Comrade Vujadinović, please continue pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29911	I've drawn your attention to the 107th article on the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29912	All right, but don't bring it down to the replica of Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29913	You can't accuse the MPs of not understanding the matter they've actually been chosen for, you can't accuse them of not getting along with the government, especially not getting along with the people. So that they may not understand the people, we have already established that. To understand with our people, if you will, which for us, of course, are not foreigners, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the Federation, and we have shown that. For the sake of truth, these people have the opportunity to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under the dual citizenship treaty, hundreds of thousands of them have already become citizens of the Republic of Serbia, participate in the elections, we get elections in Republika Srpska, so this is a very important information for Serbian citizens, both here and through Drina.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29914	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Marijan Rističević, right on replica, mentioned by name. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29915	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've never heard of an unintentioned amendment. Of course, I deliberately submitted the amendment, and without intent, they can't stand it. I ask you, the chairman, to extract my statistics as from the beginning of this call, how much time has the opposition spent in performances in the National Assembly. I also ask you, Mr. Chairman, from the Bureau of the Assembly to calculate how many times the representatives of the government, the parties who support the government, and how many times the representatives of the opposition have reported and to divide it by the MP. I say responsibly, I will resign if it is not true, you will be given the information that the opposition had far more announcements per MP than the parties supporting the government do. True, I said that I was tired of sitting here for ten hours as a clay pigeon and listening to attacks on the government and parties supporting the government, and that therefore I am putting up with amendments, that I can in a certain way those results that we have achieved to present to the citizens. I said I put up with those amendments so the citizens would have nothing to hear from, unlike them, which I can't hear from.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29916	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I ask the competent congregation services to deliver to Mr. Risticevic, our colleague, all this information he has requested and of course has the right to do so. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Dr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29917	I am pleased that all these laws fall within the order of the laws delivered to the National Assembly after the overall procedure necessary for the adoption of one law, so after the construction and consultation of all professional services, extensive public debates, of course, opinions from all ministries that may be competent or interested in matter regulated in the legal proposals that are on you, and thus the government has fulfilled its task, therefore establishing a bill of law. We cannot negotiate with the congregation, for if we agree with the congregation, then the meetings of the congregation are pointless, then the congregation is not necessary at all. Then we need to make a deal with the President of the Assembly, and that's when we're done with the session. So the government delivers the bill. How this proposal, that is, what the law will look like at the end of the debate, is determined by the National Assembly. The National Assembly can amend the law, it can not accept it, it can accept it unchanged, it can do whatever the Rules of Procedure and the laws provide. So the government can't negotiate with the MPs, which is why it's one way or another. After all, it has happened several times here that after the debate, I have rejected certain amendments, but after discussions with the MPs, we have realized that there is a reason why we could accept these amendments and I have accepted those amendments, including opposition MPs, and so have we changed that original conclusion of our rejection of these amendments. This debate is not pointless, it can lead to a change of laws. Also, you might not convince me, so I don't accept those amendments. In any case, it is important for me to know that we will continue to help and, of course, to the citizens, or to our people who do not live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We showed this through investments in schools, hospitals, roads, through concrete investments, to help not only with words, but also with works that mean making their lives easier. Of course, we have made it easier for them to have dual citizenship, right up to where the legislation of these countries implies it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29918	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29919	So, Mr. Marinkovic, I'm really surprised that you, as a man who knows this Rules of Procedure, have not responded so far. Two members were injured, first of all a member of 106, who says the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. What we've just heard has absolutely nothing to do with it. We were explained here by the minister that the law had passed a broad debate, as they agreed, as it passed multiple times to the government, came here etc. If the debate is so high-quality, it is possible that MPs who support the government themselves will submit 350 or 450 amendments. It's not just these amendments that have been submitted to be withdrawn, as we all know, but there are a whole series of amendments that have been accepted. Turns out, a certain lady or Miss Dusica Spasojevic, as it is already called, Stojkovic, here I am being corrected by my parliamentary group. It turns out to be the biggest expert on these issues, bigger than those in the government, bigger than the minister, bigger than everyone else. The hill of its amendments has been accepted. As far as the debate is concerned, there's not a bit of an impact. We all know that. And a lot of things have already been nailed, and it's not a quality discussion that can change, but a quality discussion is completely put on the side, and what can change is the final appearance of the law is the bell. The bells during the vote, if the bell changes, if it doesn't ring, it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29920	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29921	One more thing, since you released pursuant to Article 158... .
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29922	Thank you for your time, colleague Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic:... says the minister has the right to speak for two minutes, and he spoke for two and a half minutes.) Just to finish the sentence, like I let you go. I don't think so, you'll have your chance again, of course, as always. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) And as far as I'm concerned, I have to say, colleague Dusica Stojkovic is not certain, but our distinguished colleague of the Committee on European Integration. Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Orlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29923	Right on the line. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29924	Yes, you have the right to a replica. To mention party leader and party leader.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29925	There have been many times, but one two-minute tour will be enough. There were more mentions. It was by those who asked who we were thinking when we criticized DOS, and it was by those who spent four minutes here explaining that they didn't have time to say anything. I don't know why they didn't use those four minutes to say that. I guess it's not about time, it's about content. Anyway, first logically, first of all. When we criticise DOS, ladies and gentlemen, so I guess that's clear, we criticise a number of prominent individuals on that side, including Gilas Dragana, whose boards of directors and supervisors were sitting on the floor asking us that a moment ago. Too bad they didn't use that sitting there to read a little Rules of Procedure. They wouldn't show this ignorance they're showing. As for those of you who said that we don't talk to each other, that we're in trouble, that we have no idea or anything like that, thank you for your concern, we have excellent communication with the present minister and other colleagues from the party. And no, we don't have any problem with the guy getting away with half the political council because we had an unprincipled coalition at the level against natural fornication. That's not what's going on with us. We don't have a problem that, among the teams that went away and let's say someone's mentor was supposed to leave him a long time ago, but not because of that unprincipled coalition against natural fornication, but because of the lack of a clue. Because of "no idea", if I had shown such a level of ignorance about Milos Crnjanski, I would have expected the leading expert on Milos Crnjanski not only to abandon me but to give me up publicly. When we talk about the problem, the only problem some here have is that they cause a replica, not only because they expect answers from us, so they go worse than they hoped, but also because they mention Marijan Risticevic, and they are not aware that he was in the O.R. As they have passed now, so they pass every time and that level of censorship of 5%, Mr. Risticevic is right, he is too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29926	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Sign up again so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29927	You have injured Ruler 27 because you allow Mr. Orlic, if I may say at all, that the gentleman is persistently insulting the MPs and here bids on the knowledge of the MPs. First, he made a big mistake when he said they were attacking DOS. Serbian Progressive Party Nebojsa Stefanovic, the interior minister pledged to arrest Dragan Dilas in 2012 and 2014, and did not arrest him. Also...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29928	Comrade Damjanović, one moment, please. Don't rephrase it, you should have answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29929	How? I can't do the replica, I'm explaining right now why, I'm explaining that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29930	Go back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29931	That's exactly what I'm By not stopping you, because he mentioned here so-called. The prominent DOS members who are in the ranks of Minister Stefanovic and Mr Orlic, by Goran Vesic, Siniši Mali, Jelena Trivan, Mladjan Dinkic, director of Parking Services, as already called, here in the parliamentary benches that sit, I see some from Grocka and other municipalities and it is very uncomfortable that we can't get the word and that someone gets up and just starts to order and say who's who's who, who's a thief, who's a criminal. Those who wanted and won the trust of the people, when they said they were going to arrest, they didn't arrest anyone. No tycoon. Those tycoons are in their ranks. And these tycoon money buys the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29932	I had to, I'm really sorry, I had to interrupt you, because you're replicating and you keep getting into a duel with your colleague Orlic and... (Miljan Damjanovic: I'm entering a duel? Well, of course. I asked you to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure I did. So I'm asking you to keep going. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29933	I'm using the line right now. So, in this assembly I use very deliberately, I try to speak within the framework of the law that lies ahead of us and the frameworks of amendments submitted by the MPs, because as the former president of the National Assembly, I have great respect for the MPs. First of all, it's important for me to say that I do my job as Minister of the Interior, I do it in accordance with the law. And what happens in our country when someone is arrested, done by law, at the prosecution's request and in accordance with the evidence provided for the process. All those tycoons like Miroslav Miskovic, like Bogicevic, like all those who robbed the Development Bank and who are suspected of serious crime and serious damage, I haven't heard anyone else mention them except us, who belong to the SNS. We had the courage to mention them and bring them to justice and today the judicial authorities decide whether they are guilty or not, but to expose all that has been done to harm the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's what Serbian citizens know very well. We are not the ones who have contact with criminals, we are not the ones who associate with them, we are not the ones who have done any harm to the Republic of Serbia in any way. On the contrary, we have fought to bring these to justice, to confiscate their property, and to support it, if nothing and 12 judgments we have in 2017 for money laundering. A little power could be praised, not only in Serbia but in the entire region. Serious work of serious people.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29934	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Bosko Obradovic called, you no longer have time for colleagues Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) You are not mentioned, nor is your political party the Serbian Movement Dvora mentioned in the speech, I suppose Vladimir Orlic, so (Bosko Obradovic: You can see that you know whose speech. The only thing on his could be looking for a replica. You couldn't get someone before him, it's the only parameter. Thank you. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29935	Thank you, Chairman. In addition to the doubtful importance of domestic investors and domestic businessmen in this country, foreign investors have certainly been very important in recent years. I think they should therefore be given a special place, both in the second and in this law concerning foreigners. I wanted to further define the concept of gender neutrality. As important as foreign investors are, perhaps we can best speak, for example, cities where they invest. Subotica is one of these cities, it can't in itself come and they can't in themselves be the bearers of development in some environment without the help of both the president of the state and the government, but if you will, eventually and without the help of the mayor of the same local self-government. With this help in Subotica, we opened the Kaminada company in September 2017, which opened the plants of three thousand square meters, the planned investment over the next five years is five million euros, and the plan is that the same Kaminada employs about 120 people from Subotica and the environment in the next period. Given these advantages that come through such investments, I think that all those people who are the bearers of these investments should be given a special place, if you will in Serbian laws. Exactly, by following that idea, and I have proposed this amendment in Article 4, with the aim of further defining this gender neutrality of expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29936	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Zvonimir Djokic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29937	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the People, Article 4. The proposal for a foreign law refers to the birth neutrality of the term. Since I, in my previous amendment, wanted the term "foreigner-investor", to be introduced, and to advocate gender equality, as well as the SNS in general, I wanted to introduce in this article the following – that the gender neutrality of the term also refers to a foreign investor who, by his business, encourages economic development and empowerment of the defence system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29938	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Would you like to follow the amendment? The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29939	Indeed, Mr. Marinkovic, I don't think one such epochal amendment deserves to pass without any further comment. No matter what the applicant of the amendment has been struggling to read what he wrote for almost a minute, once again, for the sake of those who are looking at this at their homes, I will read the article and the amendment, or, let's just say, the amendment, let's cut it short. It says: "The gender neutrality of the term also refers to a foreign investor who in his business encourages economic development and empowerment of the defence system". So the member is already referring to gender equality and this is defined, and this is something that is completely pointless, as the government claims. Come on, please, how is the gender equality of a foreigner who invests and how can this foreigner who invests strengthen the defence system? So, all this is completely pointless, even those who have been given these amendments to sign in these days that preceded the debate could not have had any argument, any reasonable argument to come up with and say – here, this is why, that and that. So, slowly, be patient, Mr. Marinkovic, I have another 30 seconds. So this is your mirror. You can say - the opposition to the amendment, but the opposition's job is in developed parliamentary democracies, unlike the authorities, whose job is not to interfere in this way with the opposition's MPs' discussion, to cast. If you're already so strong, if you're so wise, if you're so good at amendments, you might want to organize one show on RTS, but only among yourselves, so as to explain to the citizens of Serbia why this is so important.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29940	I'm not nervous. You've had time to speak yet, so thank you for the discussion. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go. I pray for peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29941	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as I proposed to the previous amendment to Article 3 that I define the term 'foreign investor', I now propose an amendment to Article 4. During the public debate, a presentation of the most important solutions in the draft law was held in the Council of Foreign Investors. This advice is commendable to the government's reforms. Foreign investors want good conditions for a more productive economy, but also for more efficient application of regulations and quick dispute resolution, which is, of course, on the field of justice. They want an appropriate business environment, predictable business and a clear legislative framework. Just because we could hear from MPs these days especially DS to favor foreign investments, I'll say what investment projects are for the city of Nis. So the total value of investments in one and the other is around 225m euros, the number of new jobs envisaged is more than 12,000, and the approved incentives in the euro are more than 86m. Nis citizens must hear it from their representatives in the National Assembly, especially from SNS MPs here who bring successes, and suffer the worst criticisms of the opposition all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29942	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29943	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, my amendment refers to Article 4. Of course, as of the beginning, the amendments concern economic investment and economic empowerment of particularly vulnerable social groups. I must say that the proposal for a law on foreigners provides for jurisdiction to protect particularly vulnerable groups, which are primarily victims of domestic violence, i.e. victims of partner violence. For the victims of domestic violence or victims by partners who are not in the marriage community and how important economic empowerment is. I must stress that for the first time, the Government of Alexander Vukic proposed the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and this House passed this law in 2016. I must also point out that this law has given a great accent to the work of the MUP. In fact, police officers have been trained from March to May, over 400 officials have been trained precisely to identify and respond adequately to the problem of domestic violence. For the first time, the police have an instrument that allows victims of family law to immediately and urgently protect against abusers by voicing emergency protection measures, and these emergency measures are currently related to the ban on the victim's approach by abusers and to the ban on further harassment of the victim. I must also point out that the police, by their great activity and work in the local community, in partnership with citizens, with the civil sector, and how they react preventively to this problem and can adequately identify and react to the consequences of family violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29944	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29945	Mr Marinkovic, since Mr Smiljanic is sitting next to you, who is an excellent lawyer and possible future secretary of the General National Assembly, should have warned you to point out to a colleague of Milan, really nothing personal, that it is absolutely impossible to explain this proposal for its amendment in this way and that Article 162 has been broken. Rules of Procedure, heading 2nd indent 3, as well as paragraph 3. Namely, what's this about? That all of this is a mockery of the National Assembly, and you're even making fun of Minister Stefanovic and his bill and all of his associates who knew how many months ago made this text of the law and referred it to the National Assembly for discussion is speaking exactly and the recent discussion, not only of you, colleagues of Milan, but also of Milimir and Djokic, and that I am not counting it now, and these are mostly amendments until the end. See what article 162 says that's been broken? It must contain a solution proposed, but it cannot amend this Foreign Act to contain a solution that tomorrow will be 18 degrees. It also cannot contain a solution that foreigners will deal with protecting women from domestic violence. This is just amazing what you're doing. So we will continue to listen to all this nonsense about strengthening the defence system, about vulnerable social groups, about investment, about agriculture, and this has nothing to do with this law, because in my 20-year parliamentary experience, I have not experienced anyone playing with the National Assembly in this way and with the laws that are in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29946	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Okay, sure, I'll explain. First of all, I would agree with you that Srdjan Smiljanić is an excellent lawyer. Secondly, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs gave an opinion on the amendments submitted, so we as chairman must act in accordance with decisions taken by the relevant assembly committees. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29947	I thank the chairman. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but I will advertise Article 108, you have missed the opportunity to give the warning of taking a word or a distance from the session to a previous speaker who severely injured and the dignity of the National Assembly, describing SNS MPs and their amendments as pointless, and on several occasions here she said that we mocked the National Assembly and gave similar assessments. I think you should have stopped her right now. You take a minimum of two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. I have to tell you, why are the members of this parliamentary group nervous for the last ten or twenty minutes? Because Mr. Orlic, in a recent discussion, touched or touched a nest for them. Why? He mentioned the period when they participated in power with Mr. Gilas at the level of Belgrade City, when they shared supervisory committees, boards of directors, along with Gilas, when they were in great love with Gilas, and tried to make it seem like it never happened. Pavlovic held back here and reminded them how easily they found common language and how they worked very well with Mr. Gilas. That's their nervousness, but I certainly think you should have taken away the minimum of two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29948	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Zvnom Djokic answered. On what grounds? Replica. Just one moment, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29949	So, Mr. Markovic, you obviously have a problem with reality, and most of all with the past. As our people say, a prostitute says...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29950	Comrade Sarovic, don't replicate now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29951	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29952	Don't rephrase your colleagues to Markovic, tell me which member I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29953	The dignity of the National Assembly was injured, a member of 107, and it was injured by Mr. Markovic's misrepresentation. So, first of all, in that term, Mr. Markovic, not only was he a longtime member of the SRS, but he was also a city...
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29954	Comrade Sarovic, I must interrupt you. I'm setting a break for two minutes. It's impossible to work under these conditions. We're moving on right after that break. [[After a break.]] Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Please, let us continue in the spirit of parliamentaryism and abide by it. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Bogatinović. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We moved on. Excuse me, colleague Sarovic, you'll have a chance later.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29956	Thank you. The objective of this amendment is certainly to boost economic development and increase investments in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. As the town of Leskovac promotes economic development and increased investments in agriculture, you will now hear. The Green Zone, an industrial zone owned by the town of Leskovec, on an area of 97.1 hectares, was formed with the aim of providing new investments in the food industry and the processing of agricultural products, as well as a better placement of agricultural products from the entire territory of the Jablanic district. Otherwise, there are 143,000 hectares under the agricultural surfaces in this district. The wide area of the river South Morava has been transformed into a vegetable complex known far from the production of paprika, tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes, cabbage and other agricultural cultures. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the town of Leskovac is a vegetable area and in Leskovac live and work the best vegetables and excellent fruit trees. These are dedicated hardworking, hardworking agricultural producers. The development of the green zone provides for the construction of a stock exchange of agricultural products in the eastern part of the industrial zone. The construction of infrastructure equipment in the green zone was under way in two stages. The first built primary infrastructure, in the second secondary infrastructure. The project is financed by the EU's Republic of Serbia's progress and the town of Leskovac. The EU progress has been in a project that has cost 1,650,000 euros so far, with 350,000 euros. In order to complete this location, there is still a need to build an auxiliary station, a bus stop, a trafo station and bring gas to green zones up to 2.6km in length. These works are projected to cost about 105 million dinars. In the end, Leskovac concluded a contract with a foreign investor to invest 25m euros on a plot of 6 hectares of the green zone. It is Actavis or Delfaj, which will employ two and a half thousand new people in the future this year or next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29957	Thank you, colleague Bogatinović. Necessa Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29958	Mr. Marinkovic, under this pressure, I would say the ruling majority, you have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Article 112 says that if the president of the National Assembly can't maintain order on a regular basis at the session, it will set a break until order is established. There was no mess here. It was the most normal parliamentary debate, debate and the only problem was that you allowed the ruling majority's representative to say what he had, and you didn't have enough courage and patience to listen and answer. You know, having 50% is one thing, and having the courage to go out on the moon to whoever has two and something else. If you're such cowards with 50% well, where you'd be with two. You know, you should have political courage. We should have consistency so we can stay on the moon, not just run for office, run for those who have a higher percentage, run where they will benefit, where employment will be. If you're already so strong, go ahead, go out on the moon. You're not strong, all of you together wouldn't win even 0.2%. You're hiding behind a man. You also had to put the name of that man on that town list that the elections were for.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29959	Please, buddy, talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29960	Not the name of any of you, nor the name of the political party to which you belong, but you've taken the laps, hid yourself, past elections, now you're jumping out and yelling – we won, we won. You didn't win anything, and you don't have any political courage like you didn't have the courage to go out on a duel, so get out of the duel, run away from the debate, run away from the arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29961	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word has Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29962	Article 108 concerns the issues of these measures. I think I perform as constructively as possible when I actually welcome the proposal. The proposal was to introduce the sittings in accordance with the envisaged measures in a certain course. I agree. Among these measures are those, Mr. Chairman, which you have the right to apply when something like that happens a little while ago. Someone lost time to discuss the parliamentary group, and the rest, when we talk about the results, because he had such fantastic results, so there's a lot of time, and now he abuses the Rules of Procedure. There are other measures besides those two minutes that you can apply. And do it freely. When we talk about the moon, it's just these results, ladies and gentlemen, that they say what's the measure and who's the megdan. It's Megdan Preletevic Beli, who they lost to last year, and now they've managed to catch up with him. And now there's a dead race, I think, for 60 votes, but total, physical, it breaks down who's bigger political size -- all of them together or that Preletevic White, a fictional character who doesn't have any politics, I don't know in the end whether or not it exists, is still being determined. When we talk about courage, there are no problems in the National Assembly to talk about any subject that interests the MPs. We have the courage to say the name and last name – Gilas Dragan, the yellow tycoon, gave them boards of directors and supervisors. And they don't have the courage to admit it, to discuss it internally. To me in a debate like this today, the Belief of Radet, their colleague, confirms and says – yes, we were. Don't they have the courage to discuss it with a colleague now, so they can determine who's right when she admits it or when they deny it today? And yes, he's right, Mr. counterpart Risticevic. If it's a big problem, if the biggest problem is we're talking about Gilas Dragan, here, we can also move on to Alexander Sapic. They worked together with Gilas well and happily once, and with Šapić, here is the day of today. Here's a chance to show courage and to admit these things, to make their souls easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29963	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? In one colleague, Sarovic is partly right, which is that he is trying to abuse the Rules of Procedure, both on the one hand and the other. Now we're already getting to that level that they're mutual replicas and I'm not going to let that happen. We're moving on with the session. As for the commentary... My colleague Damjanović, please don't be nervous. (Miljan Damjanovic: You can't do that. I can, I'm chairing the session. Like counterpart Sarovic said, I don't want to let any mess in here. We're going on with normal work. As for fellow Orlic's comments and warnings, I am really avoiding and trying to hold a session so as not to give a warning to anyone and to create such an ambience that the session runs in accordance with the highest level of parliamentary democracy. There was also Mr. Stefanovic, the president of the Assembly, in the end, and I learned from him this trade, and he did not, either, so we move in good spirit and good faith, with the amendment of fellow Members of Miletic to the amendment to Article 4. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29964	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, Serbian citizens, fellow MPs, I am as a Serbian host and MP in front of the USS here in the Assembly, and I have proposed an amendment to Article 4 and related to gender neutrality and investors. Foreign investors who want to invest in undeveloped areas, in hill-mounted areas, in agriculture, I want to call on such an amendment to come to us, who want to invest, to come to an area like Svrljig, Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han, to invest in sheepmaking, because this is a great opportunity for those areas. Through herding, we have the possibility of three activities to work. The first is wool processing, meat production and milk production. Here we can compete together with investments that foreigners can invest, we can be the best with these products in the whole world. Once again, I want to introduce myself as a real Serb host. We can compete in sheepmaking, in the haircut, who will cut the sheep faster, who will milk the sheep and things like that faster. And that's where we can compete. I can go out with my name and name everywhere and say what I think, because I think these things we're doing right now are the right thing to hear the opinion of others, and finally to develop our agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29965	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, we continue our work. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29967	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of this law in which I propose that Article 2 be added with a view to the birth neutrality of the expression also applies to a foreign investor who, by his business, encourages economic development in Serbia. Serbia's goal is to create a society of equal opportunities and that the gender-neutal absecction applies to foreigners who are operating in Serbia and those who are yet to invest. As an example of good practice, I would cite Sweden's "Ikeu", but also the company Automated Companies, which employs 2,200 workers in India, a large number of women. Otherwise, this company has its own factories in Germany, Mexico, the Czech Republic, Canada. The best example Serbia shows for the gender aspect of neutrality and economic empowerment of women and the development of entrepreneurship is the application of gender-responsible budgeting, but also the introduction of... We are the first country in the Balkans to introduce the birth index as a measuring instrument to measure the birth aspect in Serbia on a number of basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29968	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 4, and the amendment submitted to Article 4, concern the importance of establishing an adequate, equal or uniform relationship, in every sense. So also in the subject matter of Article 4 of this Act, as well as each other. We talk a lot about investment today, we talk a lot about supporting those projects that directly involve supporting development through an appropriate investment policy. This issue of a balanced, balanced and equal relationship can also refer to the aspect of an assessment of the moment and an assessment of the approach when the state provides support on its own side of investment. A lot of words were exchanged yesterday and during today's day on the subject of the state's participation through subsidies. The question of choosing the right approach, the right way, but the right timing can be reminded of the period when we really really had problems based on inadequate access through timing, place and way, and the word is right in subsidies. Many critics of the subsidy policy suggest that there was a problem, that these programmes were unsuccessful and that they were obviously politically motivated. It's true, ladies and gentlemen, there have been cases like this, but it's always worth remembering when. It was during the pre-election period of 2012 that almost all cases of inadequate use of the subsidy programme, i.e. obvious use for political purposes, were created. Today the situation is completely different, today we are building a successful society and modern state with a serious and responsible approach, all the opposite of DOS Palanka, which some have built by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29970	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador, Blaža Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29971	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members in the amendment, all the terms defined in this law have the same gender solution, regardless of where they are used, male or female, or whether they relate to both genders, male or female. Serbia is a country to which investors from all over the world come. All of them had to respect and comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia during their investment. All those who treat our country in this way show first and foremost the seriousness, respect and genuine partnership towards our country. This law, above all, harmonizes the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU regulations. In view of the commitments made in the accession process of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has taken steps to bring national legislation into line, as well as the Foreign Law, as well as the acts concerning the gender neutrality of the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29972	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29973	Dear Vice-President, I wanted, in a way, to further define the term gender equality by referring to both the foreigner and the investor who, in some ways, influence the overall system of education and education. Dear People's MPs, as a man who deals with, besides parliamentary work, professional science, now let me say that what I know for sure as a man of the profession is that in Serbia time will be measured in the first half of the 21st century by SNS and by Alexander Vukic, by dividing that time into two periods. The first period is the time before SNS and Alexander Vukic arrive at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the time of DOS and the party of the former regime, which is the time when Serbia was humiliated, Serbia that was demonized, not only by the state but also by the people, in which there was a high-level over-indebted Serbia, which was on the edge of bankruptcy, in which there was great unemployment. The second period, since the arrival of SNS and Mr. Alexander Vukic at the head of the state, is the time of Serbia's modernisation. It is the time of our country's economic recovery, the time of accelerated economic progress, the time of excellent international reputation, the time in which we reduced over-indebtedness, the time of low inflation, the time of Serbia's modernisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29974	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29975	Dear President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 and a large number of fellow members of the opposition who are now not there have criticised our right, and these attitudes we add to our articles through amendments, but in these articles we see something good, whether these amendments will be accepted or not. We see that there are no tycoon manuscripts here and we see that these members were not written by tycoons. No member of our law and none of our laws has written a tycoon to benefit from it, nor have we written tycoon laws to repay debts to some tycoons, as those who today respect our right to amendments have done. What is extremely important, and what I think is of great importance is the creation of an ambience by the MUP for more investment, and that is, of course, through Chapter 24 where a great deal of work has been done. We inherited laws that were passed at a time when the law was not taken into account and in our laws no longer exists and no tycoon manuscript can be stolen, no matter what keyboard it was written on, even if it was gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29976	Thank you. On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by a National MP, Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29977	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, this amendment was, in fact, technically implicated in order to comply with European norms, with European acts, and he had to find his place to fulfill the so-called law. A necessary and sufficient condition. As a mathematician, I believe that every continent needs to meet that condition, which means the condition is not much, not a bit, and in one word it could be said to be dark, and it is only when that necessary and sufficient condition is met. If I didn't go into detail after my friend Filipovski's discussion, I could say one more sentence, Sapienti's watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29978	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29979	We also had an amendment to Article 4. We have suggested that this article be deleted because it is absolutely pointless to determine in law gender equality, primarily because of the fact that all types of equality are provided for by our Constitution. It is especially pointless to speak of birth importance this way when this law treats men and women and children. Worse than the proposed solution is an amendment submitted by a colleague who had just explained it. He says in his amendment – Gender equality of expressions, also refers to a foreign investor who, by his business, promotes economic development and efficiency. I suppose this amendment best speaks of all amendments of the ruling majority MPs, which actually mean nothing, but are only written to waste time so that the remaining nine laws do not come in line at all, or amendments to those laws. Just to remind a colleague and other colleagues who are likely to vote in favour of the amendment of their colleague that investors are mostly legal persons, and that legal persons are determined by gender, I think, only exists in this amendment. So, once again, the senselessness of all amendments is best seen through this amendment and before you withdraw it in a bunch of amendments that will definitely be withdrawn if you don't bother with the vote, it would be good to fence yourself immediately from this nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29980	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jolovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jolovic. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29981	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, respect for the gender neutrality of the term should also be present in this bill. The adoption of this amendment will carry out gender neutrality in order to achieve the goal, which is the fact that in the past period there has been a major controversy on the establishment of gender equality in written documents. This, apparently, negligible fact shows the same importance for both female and male entrepreneurship, without making any difference. By including gender neutrality, i.e. The gender neutral language in all segments of this bill will exclude the possibility of further controversy over gender equality and achieve the objective, which is to allow equal rights for foreign investors. The main objective of this amendment is to contribute to economic development by foreign investors regardless of all differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29982	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29983	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia guarantee every form of equality. At the same time, any violation of equality is very clearly defined as sanctioned. Serbia is working on these principles, and when we talk about foreign and domestic investors, then we are actually talking about the complete equality that exists between them. Both foreign and domestic investors have the same rights and obligations. The rights and those obligations stem from the functioning of the Serbian state. At the same time, the SNS has defined its activities both in its laws and in the Assembly and in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to ensure that these conditions are fully equal; that domestic investors, as well as foreign investors on the market, have the same conditions. Serbia, when fighting for foreign investment in the global financial market, has the same conditions, tries to have them, but Serbia is better and more acceptable to foreign investors and when you look at how much foreign investors invest foreign direct investment in Serbia, then you get the information that we are better than all other EU countries, countries that have arisen from the old Yugoslavia. We have a double inflow of foreign direct investment in relation to them, and when you look at all the other EU countries that are located in this area, so-called. "South Balkan", Southeast Europe, include EU countries Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Serbia has 20% of foreign direct investment in that territory, which is incomparably more than those of EU member countries, such as Croatia and Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29984	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the country have long known what gender equality is. It's a division of pain and blistering hands. Agriculture is our chance, but only if we raise the processing industry and energy alike. Agriculture can produce energy needed, bio diesel, for example, necessary for the establishment of primary agricultural production, but also agriculture can, through livestock and bio-mass, produce electricity, using which agricultural products, made by farmers, these can process into finished products. In order to increase subsidies, we would have to have a processing industry, have where to take the money to direct it to primary agricultural production. Citizens should know, as well as farmers, that our subsidies that grow year after year are no longer only in favour of agricultural producers, but in favour of consumers, for the benefit of the state, and in particular processors, to be sure under which conditions they can obtain raw materials. The state is safe from possible military and economic pressures, which God can not repeat, and consumers are always sure that they will be well supplied. Agriculture can do a lot of things and in 2012, the former regime has singled out 19 billion, and we're out 34 billion for agriculture today, and I hope that by developing the processing industry, it will be more in the future. We must be worthy, devoted. We should also be complicated, because the style would be half the success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29986	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29987	I thank the chairman. With this amendment, I propose that Article 4 be added to Article 2 which says the gender neutrality of the term also refers to an investor foreigner, who in his business encourages economic development and the end of poverty. The Republic of Serbia is working intensively to develop women's entrepreneurship, whether through domestic or foreign investments. It is encouraging that both at the head, encouraging for women's entrepreneurship, that both at the head of the government and also at the head of the Foreign Investors' Council are women. The council, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is working to implement recommendations and advice from the White Paper on strengthening the business climate. The Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president, of course, encourages female entrepreneurship. Innovative start-ups are being encouraged, currently worth 100m euros. In addition to this money, women who want to start their business, i.e. entrepreneurship, will also receive adequate training, and what is aimed at, in addition to the development of women's entrepreneurship, working on even regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29988	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29989	Thank you. The proposal for Article 4 to add Article 2 which reads that gender equality relating to a foreigner, i.e. an investor, in its business encourages economic development and implementation of the 2030 Agenda. I'm just getting up to the debate of my colleague Stojiljkovic, who spoke about women's entrepreneurship as one of the development factors of the Republic of Serbia, but what is important is that more and more women in the world are headed by even large businesses and corporations. This is why it is important that when we talk about foreign investors here in Serbia, somewhere we encourage the 2030 Agenda to promote this gender equality, namely the growing involvement of women in the economic sector, besides the political sector, we are now talking about the economic sector, and that this participation of women is being encouraged somewhere on our part precisely by women, or investors who are coming, that these investments are being led by women. Target number five is just talking, when we talk about Agenda 2030, about gender equality. Among the 5 objectives, there are also a series of sub-targets. These are: 5a, 5b and 5c which are just to ensure greater availability of financial services, economic resources by women who should really take a big role as decision-makers in the future. We therefore considered it necessary to contribute to what is certainly waiting for Serbia through this formulation in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29990	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29991	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment further defines the gender neutrality of the term and it practically adds to and continues to the previous member of the Foreign Law and refers to a foreign investor. I note that after structural reforms were implemented and the stabilisation of finances, Serbia simply ensured macroeconomic stability. It is certain that these factors have contributed to Serbia's position as a favourable investment destination. You have met the necessary preconditions to ensure and stimulate economic growth. And our local self-government behaves in a similar way. So, with responsible business, stabilising their finances, sending a message that they are able and ready to issue their permits quickly, to meet their obligations, to equip industrial zones, to send a different message to investors, and it is certain that this message has been received differently, because our investors are now talking to the city leaders and municipalities daily and are ready to invest in the opening of new production plants and in the opening of new jobs to start business together. The 2018 budget identifies 15 billion dinars for economic incentives. These incentives have proved to be an extremely good instrument for attracting investors. The analysis shows that the total amount of expected public revenues is about four times the total amount of subsidies granted, so that these data clearly indicate the eligibility of such measures to support the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29992	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29993	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, the SNS takes care of gender neutrality and gender equality. These are civilizational, European values that we, as a society and as a SNS, advocate. There's no dilemma. Of course, and the fact that SNS, one of my colleagues spoke before me, doesn't write laws by order of tycoons, criminals and mobs. The Serbian Progressive Party writes laws that are citizens and citizens according to the will of the citizens, according to what is the interest of the citizens. This is exactly what we see in these laws that we are discussing today, which we are discussing in the previous days and that we will discuss in the future and all that we are doing here as SNS MPs is in the interest and for the benefit of citizens. When we get criticisms at the expense of subsidies, criticisms on account of where investors come from, whether they are foreign, whether they are domestic, it's totally irrelevant. Let anyone who wants to come to Serbia and open factories, just to hire Serbian citizens and work, to have bigger salaries, bigger pensions, better working conditions, better technology, a more modern, modernised state, better and happier society. This is what is the main interest and the main objective of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29994	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29995	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this amendment is being attached to the previous one. When we talk about using Serbia's economic potential and catering as a prosperous tourism branch, and we know that we have an attractive offer for investors, those who are willing to invest in hotels in local self-government in Banjian areas across Serbia, can count on incentives from the Ministry of Economy. The government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a regulation that regulates the allocation of incentives to these purposes. Banje has two basic functions – healing and touristic. Investments that the state would support include the development of already existing spas, but also the identification of new Bane areas. The minimum value of these investment projects is 2m euros and at least 70 new jobs indefinitely. This is a very important newspaper for the banana areas throughout Serbia. In some parts of Serbia, thermal springs can also be used as energy for district heating, as the water temperature is up to 80 degrees. For remote heating, geothermal energy is used because heating would be significantly cheaper than existing energy. Practically, the sources of geothermal water can be used in several ways, depending on the need. The government of the Republic of Serbia will support these investment projects, up to 50% of the eligible costs if it is big firms, 60% for medium and 70% for small businesses that would invest in hotels in spas. I must point out that there is also a need to amend the 1992 Bane Act to allow local self-governments to charge source fees if the investor decides to invest in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29996	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29997	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 4 as well as all my colleagues who have done so for a reason to help improve the recovery of the Republic of Serbia and continue investment by foreign investors, in order to facilitate their investment, in order to raise the standard of citizens. I'm sure we wouldn't have to do this to this extent today and so much to be committed to this problem, that on October 5, 2000, what happened didn't happen. You know, to that extent, there was this insolence that on March 1st, a wretch with Jarram market gave himself the right to ask if anyone could imagine Serbia without October 5th and if anyone could imagine Serbia without DS. I really, as soon as I close my eyes, imagine Serbia with 2,500 other companies, imagine Serbia with another 500,000 workers working and receiving salaries neatly and whose incomes do not depend on whether new investors will come. I imagine Serbia without a few hundred thieves who have made a fortune robbing everything that generations in Serbia have created. I imagine Serbia has a unique educational program. I imagine Serbia with at least 10 new clinical centres. I imagine Serbia without poverty. I imagine a Serbia that has its own army, which has its own weapons, and that's what the thieves sold to acquire the grasslands. I am giving myself the right to imagine that Serbia today would be a country which the EU would have begged to join the EU if it hadn't been for October 5th. I imagine a Serbia that was not defiled by delivering its bravest and most frequent sons to The Hague tribunal, which apologized to anyone who asked it unfoundedly. I imagine a rich, stable and happy country. I imagine everything that would have been certain if it hadn't been for October 5th, if it hadn't been for the Democratic Party in power. That is why we propose everything we propose today, including this amendment because we are forced to correct what has brought Serbia back to life by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29998	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u29999	Thank you, Chairman. Respectful Minister, my amendment refers to Article 4. In this law they have equal gender meaning, equal to male and female, all expressions. It is precisely because of the gender neutrality of the foreign investor, i.e. attitude 2 that is added and said nicely that the birth neutrality of the person refers to a foreign investor who encourages the economic development of undeveloped municipalities. This amendment further defines the gender neutrality of the term for a foreign investor and does not require any broader comments, given that many professions today do not have a gender-sensitive form in the world language. So it still resorts to gender neutral expressions and that the nouns that mean the type of calling or occupation mark beings of both sexes, as stated in the position of the 1st member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30000	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30001	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, above all for the reason we have proposed the introduction of a new institute, a new term, it is a foreigner investor, I think we should further define it. As this member of the Foreign Law also speaks about the birth definition of the term itself, this amendment also wanted to further define that term. However, what needs to be seen, and as part of this not only law, but also a member of the law and the amendment proposal, is that all these foreign and transnational investments must be seen. First of all, to consider the importance in terms of importance for the national economy, but also to consider the importance of these investments in flows, let me say, global capital. What is a positive effect of all these foreign investments that we have talked about these days is not only employment, so our people, not only filling the republican or local budgets, but one transfer of technology can be said. So our country had no significant technology transfer during a long period of time. We, with a significant transfer of technology, will enable and create a rapid development and thus, in general, speed up the progress of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30002	Thank you. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30003	Thank you. With this amendment, I propose that Article 4 add to Article 2 which reads - the working neutrality of the term also refers to an investor foreigner who, by his business, encourages economic development and a reduction of unemployment. The objective of this amendment is to provide equal rights for all foreigners and investors. The fact is that in the field of gender equality, Serbia has laid the foundations in a large number of documents and made a serious step in the area of gender equality so that this amendment is just another step in that direction. In the coming period, Serbia expects the adoption of a law on gender equality, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown on several occasions that gender equality is the government's long-term priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30004	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Malusic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30005	My amendment reads – the gender neutrality of expression refers to an investor foreigner who, by his business, encourages economic development to reduce social differences. Of course, this amendment is important for the simple reason why it does not matter to us, who are interpreting this amendment, because for an investor, we have a legal face over, and it is important that we Serbs also showed the citizens of Serbia a general commitment to human rights and that is why we are very respected in the world. What's important and what's holding us back is the great devastation of this country. When a foreign investor or a legal person comes to this country, they look for road infrastructure, they look for the proximity of the airport, they look for the proximity of the river, and that's what we have to work on. That's why we're ending Corridor 10, which is why we're working on Corridor 11, so we're going to make the highway to Pristina, the highway to Sarajevo, and then the foreign investor, or the legal person, is going to come and invest here as much as he wants. A good example of the practice of a good investor who loves this country and invests and is yet to be invested by the company, China, Hestil, who wants to make two million tonnes of steel next year, but I will discuss it in the next amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30006	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30007	Thank you, Chairman. In advance, I apologize to the experts across the street for having dared to submit an amendment to Article 4 of this Law. The proposed solutions set out in this proposal will certainly affect all state authorities and institutions that cooperate with foreign citizens under their jurisdiction and there is no doubt there. I mean, first of all, the M.O.P. The most important thing is that it is in charge of the implementation and application of this law. I would take advantage of the opportunity to look back at the overall state of the Ministry and the state of our police, and the situation is such that it deserves honest congratulations. I would like to remind you that only in last 2017, more than 600 graduate students of the Police Academy and members of the Centre for Fundamental Police Training received the job. So more than 600 young people who went to school, then got a job in the profession, got a job in the profession for what they were trained for. I'd like to add one more thing here, and that's that there's been a regulation on the career advancement of police officers. Under this Regulation, a brand-new model of career progress has been introduced that will allow all police officers better professional engagement, all in order to improve and make IT work more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30008	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30009	Chairman, this amendment wanted to highlight the importance of such a good legal solution, as is the proposal for a law on foreigners, in order to attract foreign investment. The government of the Republic of Serbia continues its policy of actively attracting foreign investment, which was successfully launched by Aleksandar Vukic, and this was recognised by all relevant world institutions. So, according to the latest 2016 Financial Times report, Serbia has attracted as many as 12 times more investments than could be expected from the economy of its size, compared to the gross social product. Then, according to a survey by one of the world's most famous companies, Serbia was the world's first in the number of new jobs compared to the number of inhabitants last year. World-renowned credit rating agency Fitch Ratings has increased Serbia's credit rating from BB minus to BB stable incidents for improvement, which is also a good signal for potential investors. Thanks to successfully implemented reforms, Serbia is the tenth country in the world at the speed of issuing building permits, which is a great success, if you look at, when we were 186 in the world in 2014, and today we are in front of a Great Britain and in front of one Norway at the speed of issuing construction permits. These certainly are good signals for investors, and I am sure that is why investments in Serbia will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30010	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30011	Thank you, Chairman. Serbia needs investors, both domestic and foreign, are welcome. Since the amendment applies to a foreign investor, I believe that capital, i.e. investment, does not know and should not know about gender. It is important that the investor be credible, with good results of his work and performance, and for this reason I have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30012	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Palalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30013	Thank you. Legal security, the rule of law and respect for international contracts and standards are certainly one of the most important conditions for attracting foreign investment and certainly one of the reasons why we in the Republic of Serbia have in recent years just such a significant inflow of foreign investment. But no doubt legal certainty characterizes and in some ways marks the primary fight against crime. Just in the previous period, the work and activity of which the Ministry of Justice, the fight against crime and corruption has just created such an atmosphere and such circumstances that it has made it possible for foreign investors to confirm that Serbia is exactly the place where it can be invested with certainty and that foreign investments will be fully secure and secure. The very fact that in the previous year of 2017, at the highest levels of crime, such as drug confiscation, where it was seized in the weight of 4.1 tonnes, that more than 1688 perpetrators of crimes in this area were prosecuted, that only on the basis of the opportunity of the state incomed 2.9m euros, that important laws were passed, such as the Law on the organisation of state authorities in the fight against crime and corruption, that strike groups were formed in the prosecutions, a large number of criminal acts were processed, and that the reduced degree of crime confirmed that Serbia was organised, firmly decided to fight crime, which certainly creates the best conditions for attracting foreign investment, because without a strong state, without a strong and professional institution, it is not possible to attract foreign investment. In that sense, legal certainty is something that now characterises the Republic of Serbia and a legal framework has been created for an increased inflow of foreign investment and new foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30014	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Birmancevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30015	The Honorable Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, gender equality as a principle which one of the Constitution's intended and guaranteed principles, as a principle adhered to by both this Government of the Republic of Serbia and this National Assembly and us as MPs, must certainly be part of this law on foreigners and is part of and must be part of any law that will be adopted by the SNS, or the National Assembly in its work. It is impossible to respond to calls that have been coming on the other side for days, and these are references on the subject of the cheapest workforce and the poorest state. Neither Serbia is the poorest state, nor does it have a cheap workforce, I would say that in Serbia, above all, people of value, are able to live. It is precisely that all investors who come to Serbia remain in it and, in the coming years, increase production or open new plants, which is primarily due to good workers, i.e. Serbian citizens, who, I repeat, are not cheap labour, but are capable and valuable people and, above all, valuable workers. One of Serbia's basic qualities is citizens, and foreign investors recognize it, and this is something that rests the arrival of new investments and is one of the conditions for further and more progressive performances, i.e. increasing new factories and new jobs in the coming period. The poorest state was only until 2012 because it survived an elementary disaster by the yellow company from 2000 to 2012, and from 2012 to today we progress progressively from day to day. In the coming period, we expect better days for the Republic of Serbia and, of course, for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30016	Thank you. National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Barisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30017	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 concerning gender neutrality. I think it's very important, when it comes to gender aspect, first of all, as someone who advocates women's rights and male rights and gender equality, but when it comes to gender issues, I think it's not that important, when it comes to foreign investors, because it's more important here that financial, economic and market aspects. We are witnessing that in 2012, we inherited a truly catastrophic situation and that investors are primarily important to us. Whether they're domestic or foreign, that's not so important, it's important that this country goes forward and we provide jobs for our citizens, because they expect us to. I think we're on the right track, because we've had good laws, we've created a favourable climate for foreigners to invest in our country and to provide what was necessary, and that's a safe salary for our citizens. Krusevec is working hard and we have really full support from our citizens who show from the elections to the elections and, behold, in the previous Belgrade elections, they have shown that Belgrade is also moving forward and that it gives full support to both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30018	Thank you. National MP Zoran Bojanic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Bojanić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30019	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, as well as several times so far and with this amendment, where I have proposed the addition of Article 2 to Article 4, I wanted to give through the amendment to this law, support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, and all in agreement with the 2030 Agenda, UN Protocol, where gender equality exists in one chapter. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proving and proving this, and that is how it tells us and the bill that we hope to discuss soon, which is the Law on Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30020	Thank you. The 5th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Vesovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30021	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the amendment to Article 5 is short and read – it is deleted. I now have to explain to you the similarities and differences of the amendment "is deleted" and all these amendments submitted by the ruling majority. Namely, all the amendments, I'm impressed by the chorus odym that I got from that side. As you can see, I'm alone, and I'm not moving from this moon. So what are the similarities and differences? It's a similarity that you and I have submitted amendments. The resemblance is that you and I have the right to do the same. It's similar that you and I have almost the same time to explain them. I don't think our amendments or yours are pointless and that's similar. And it's similar that I think you and I want Serbia well, but there are big differences. When I talk about amendments, I've never offended any of you. When I talk about amendments, I stand as a person who has never changed a political uniform. When I talk about amendments, I will vote for the amendment that I have proposed and another big difference, and when I talk about amendments, I won't get a round of applause that I don't want, because I really think it's pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30022	The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, according to Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30023	Dear Chairman, I believe that a injured member of 106 who speaks only of the agenda point and the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. Why? Because the previous speaker insults all of us in this room when he talks about differences and similarities. It is a big difference that MPs who now explain the amendments have citizens' support of over 60%, and a colleague who is with a coalition partner or, however, from another movement or association has support of only 2%. I think it's a huge difference, so I think we're all offended on this side, and you should stop it and warn when you need to. Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30024	Comrade Vesovic, you do not have the right to reply when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Barisic, I believe that my colleague Vesovic, i.e. I did not violate the Rules of Procedure for having him speak. I really don't know which MPs they were referring to. I know that certain MPs have insulted both the minister and the ruling majority, he probably thought of them, but I'm not going to make assumptions about it. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on the injury in the voting day? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Vujadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30025	Thank you, Chairman. This is now some kind of change. We had an opportunity to hear it from previous speakers compared to earlier stages. We have been granted the right to have the legitimate right to submit amendments. He admitted that we want Serbia well and we are grateful for that. However, I'm not quite sure how they want Serbia, perhaps, but the bottom line is that the people don't really believe much of what they're saying. To return to the amendment itself and to the law itself. It is the use of a foreign travel document that enters, resides and exits the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that has already been defined by the current law but also by the proposal that is before us. But I thought maybe we should mention foreign investors, probably because I'm coming and I know the meaning of it. Thanks to both the President and the Government and the Mayor, and perhaps that Subotica is near the border crossing and these travel documents are somehow part of our daily routine, we know how important it is. I have to inform you that the mayor signed with the ministry, with those same foreigners from the German KfW Bank, a donation contract. So this isn't just about investment, that it's about investment anyway, but it's about a grant on grants to resuscitate Lake Palic. I think all those foreigners who contribute to such a single process, to say strengthening tourism in Serbia, must get special status. That's what I am about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30026	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Djokić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30027	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Article 5 speaks of the use of a travel document. I have submitted an amendment to be made in Article 5. The proposal for a law on foreigners adds Article 3 to read – during its stay and exit from the Republic of Serbia, a foreign investor who, by his business, encourages economic development and empowerment of the defence system is obliged to use the travel document of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia. I have submitted this amendment, among other things, and because I have in some way considered it my right to speak of this law and to submit amendments to the exact same as the right of opposition members, because I have come to the conclusion that our opposition is somehow spoiled. They believe that only they have the right to speak of laws, that only they have the right to submit amendments, that only they have the right to criticise, rarely when and to praise, and that we should just keep quiet and listen and watch the circus. They just confirmed it yesterday and today during their statements. I don't know if this amendment of mine will be passed, whether we vote it or not, but I certainly thought that introducing a foreign investor's concept would improve this law, which is why I've submitted all the amendments and this one where they're said to have to use travel documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30028	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is a colleague of Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30029	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the area of movement and residence of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is increasingly gaining importance with the rise of migration and the fact of terrorist organisations on EU territory. It is necessary to regulate and ensure the highest degree of security and legal certainty, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and foreign citizens staying in our country. The interior ministry is making sure the state of security at the state border and in the border area is stable. Significant activities have been carried out to combat all forms of cross-border crime. I would especially like to commend Operation Icarus 2017, which was conducted at airports in Belgrade and Nis. The action was put on a detailed check of travel documents, which is also covered by this Member of the Bill of Law, and in order to detect counterfeits, controls of passengers and luggage, in order to prevent cross-border crime. The government is making every effort through the work of the MUP to protect Serbia's state interests, ensure the safety of citizens and eliminate all security risks and threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30030	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is from a colleague named Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30031	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 relating to the use of the travel document and, of course, it is in the spirit of my previous amendments, and this economic development has a direct impact on improving the position of vulnerable social groups. I'm going to talk here about the position of one of the most vulnerable social groups, which are treated by the proposed Foreign Law, which are children without escorts. In fact, I must point out that in co-operation with other state authorities and other institutions, it always comes from the protection of the best interests of unaccompanied minors and timely and adequate co-operation with other bodies, other state institutions and also the non-governmental sector providing complete family and legal protection. What does that mean? This means that the Ministry of Interior, i.e. the police, in co-operation with the custody authorities, that is to say, in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs, puts unaccompanied minors under custody and thus, in the highest possible way, establish family and legal protection over minors. But it's not just that, it's not just that. It is also about the accommodation of minors without the escort of parents, guardians or adults close to them. In fact, we can boast that in the northern part of our country, in the town of Subotica, in the home of Kolevka for 20 migrants, thanks to the donation of the Swiss Agency for Development and Co-operation, an open facility for the admission of 20 children of migrants. I can also show images of that space, which is functional, which is tailored to the purposes and needs of exactly the most vulnerable category, children without escort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30032	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Richtinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30033	I thank the President. The town of Leskovac is fond of agriculture. This work has been and will remain a major opportunity for the development of the whole region. In order to promote the village, agricultural products and the better placement of the woodland product, as well as to create conditions for attracting foreign investment in agricultural production, the city organizes events every year that have already become traditional. Strawberries are grown at more than 180 hectares in Jablani County, 70% of which are represented in the woody area, and the centre of production and cultivation of strawberries is the village of Dusanovo, which organizes the traditional event “Days of Jagoda”. In Lipovica, the village next to Leskovec, is organized a traditional event "The Days of Vishne". In these areas there is a cherry of good quality, which is also a trademark of this place. Kruška is grown in the territory of the town of Leskovci at 530 hectares, and the largest areas under the pear are in the vicinity of Vucje, 50% of the total plant of this fruit. Until nearly three decades ago, the area of Poreč was called "Serbian California" because of the huge planting of DOO "Porečje" from Vucij, which is now in bankruptcy. Every year, the events "The Days of the Krusks" are organized in Vucje. Every year, in September of the month, at 14 km northeast of Leskovec, the event "Paprika Days" is organized in the village of Donja Lokošnica. This village is unique because all 300 households are about 200 hectares of paprika production for generations. This pepper is mostly used as a spice, but also for filling. Spice peppers and dry peppers can be found on all markets throughout Serbia. The same seed has been used for 400 years without any modification. The event "The Days of Potatoes" is organized in the village of Pečevac. Under the planting of potatoes about 250 hectares, up to a few years ago, this village was the largest potato producer in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30034	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30035	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to investments in agriculture, undeveloped areas, for foreigners who want to invest in undeveloped areas in underdeveloped areas. Mr. Bogatinovic said that the woodland is being done and investment in agriculture is an indication that it has results. Otherwise, I come from Svrlig, it is an undeveloped municipality, in which it is necessary to invest and foreign investors are needed, as well as development in livestock. Today I'm going to say that investors who want to come to us can invest in sheepmaking, goatmaking. Why goatmaking? Because milk production is the most important thing, and this is what I'm going to tell my colleagues to hear, that goat is the only domestic animal that doesn't have malignancies, and that's why goat milk is very good quality. Therefore, foreigners who come to Svrlig, Bela Palank, Gajin Han, Bolovac, mountainous and mountainous areas, who want to invest their resources in furrying, will have ways to provide quality products and through these products that we have a better future tomorrow for all people living in the country and living from the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30036	Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Filipovski, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30037	This law defines the use of a travel document in Article 5, which has two positions, one and two. I also proposed Amendment 3 with the aim of further profiling every foreigner, investor, because they are with domestic investors in Serbia with economic development. These are people who, due to the favourable political and economic climate created by the state of Serbia, represent the carriers of Serbia's development today with domestic entrepreneurs. I believe that even a symbolic mention in the position of the 3rd member of this law would show the level of respect they deserve, because of these and such investors, it means, of those who work in Serbia and of those who are yet to come, there are 170,000 workers and their families living. In Raška County in the Kingdom, we have a textile factory opened by Turkish investors who come from the southeast to Serbia and who, like everyone else, are welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30038	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the duty spoken of in Article 5 is inextricably tied to rights, in every sense, of course. When we talk about the issue of supporting the economic development of the country and about supporting investment in entrepreneurship, everything that falls within that domain, with the right to promote a particular policy, we, as MPs, have a certain duty, to show for ourselves a responsible relationship, to show diligent work, and I think that we understand these duties in the right way. For example, the laws we've adopted, for example, are proof of that. a set of laws adopted in December of last year that directly concern good support for what concerns the start of their own business and the ease in this regard, also when it comes to a law that directly introduces dual education. These are all good examples. People who deal with politics and public affairs generally should always bear in mind that these duties go hand in hand with rights. It literally applies to all themes. Those who today see themselves as kind of political geniuses, you see, winners of different choices, all belong to the list of those groups and options that have been defeated by the Belgrade elections, should know that, with the right to comment on everything in the way they think they should, as they say, have the duty to be responsible, before they use the word "fascism" again, and I see that they have often used Tepic and Zivkovic and Jankovic and Jeremic, Gilas for days. They should learn something about that concept. They should start by showing that history knows at least a little bit better than what they've already shown when they've claimed in their time that she's been a Kaldrma in Skadarlia there for centuries. That wouldn't be a bad start.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30040	Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30041	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers of Serbia, an economically strong and fiscally consolidated country, record a growing number of investors investing in our country, or potential investors, who will do so in some future period. What is important, or what is required of a foreign investor investing in the Republic of Serbia, is to respect the laws of our country, that is, when it comes to travel documents, the travel document of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia. A foreign investor who treats our country in this way shows above all his commitment to the Republic of Serbia and his commitment to achieving economic goals, both for the benefit of the state of Serbia and its citizens and for the benefit of the business entity it represents. Of course, it is of invaluable importance here, and it is necessary for the state authorities to properly control the entry of foreigners into the country. This kind of control would be the responsibility of all security holders in the state of Serbia. When we know that we live in Serbia, which is primarily a safe country, it is certainly no surprise that all European and world officials evaluate Serbia, or Serbia's security with the highest score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30042	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by the people sent by Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Atlagic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30043	Dear Vice President, with this amendment, I wanted in some way to further define the use of travel documents that foreign investors use during their stay and when leaving the Republic of Serbia. These foreign investors in some way improve the overall economic development of our country, thus improving the overall system of education and education. Foreign investors make a significant contribution to the overall development of our country, and they contribute significantly to the economic and financial recovery of our country from the very poor situation in which it was brought by gentlemen from the party of the former regime. That's why foreign investment contributed to our country's debt business list of the World Bank in 2015 jumping from 91 to 59, so 32 positions. What matters is that it was the biggest jump of one country in the last 10 years in general, and in 2016 from 59 to 47 place for an additional 12 positions, and from 47 to 43 in the previous 2017. That is why I am pleased to say that all economic and social parameters are drawn in the ex-government exposé of the Prime Minister, and the current president of the state, Mr. Vukic, has been drawn up in three years, which means that until 2018, they are fully achieved. Therefore, I repeat this exposé, which was long-term in three or five years, is the best, most transparent, largest, most accurate of all previous 72 exposés, starting from the first prime minister of the modern Serbian government, Prota Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30044	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Krsta Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30045	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Associates, distinguished colleagues, in article 5, the definition of travel documents, security, certainly in the function of economic development. London's "Economist" weekly wrote in a text in August 2017 that the arrival of Ikea in Belgrade is somehow symbolic and that it represents a delayed transition and symbolises Serbia's European normality under President Aleksandr Vukic's mandate, and that European normality since 2012, Serbia has moved from Macedonia to a local road, from a local road to a regional, freeway, and from a highway to a better future. And, on that highway, we won't be stopped by the stones they're throwing down that road, and we won't be stopped by the false signalling for the foreigners they want us to turn into, neither will the driver who's going in the opposite direction with his shark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30046	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? There's a colleague, Jokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30047	It is necessary that what we wanted and what we did in the first four members that we had to do in the fifth term, to make the system complete, so to speak. A necessary and sufficient condition. So a foreign investor must appear to regulate his status and regulate his rights when he stays in our country. But I would take advantage of this moment, Minister, if you could listen to me give foreign investors in some future acts and laws that regulate entry and exit and their stay, give certain advantages to these people, and give a special advantage to those people who will invest in those facilities and those investments where we will be able to realise dual education. As a man of education, I believe that dual education is something that will change very significantly in our country. With dual education, we're going to get more quality labour, we're going to get that our people are going to have bigger salaries, that we're going to get to know technology, that we're going to connect much faster with Europe, with the world. With dual education, not only will we solve the expertise of future staff, I am sure and can prove that we will also solve the financial difficulties in which education is located, because there will be some income that will resolve financial status and workers and teachers and teachers and schools themselves. That is why it is very important that you think about it and that these people, which will help further develop dual education and have some advantage over those who only come to our country or who are coming, and will not allow us to further expand and quality dual education. In the end, I should say, the other Vesovic, Comrade Vesovic, not the communist comrade but the companion as close as he is, although he is not there, you tell him and the apostle Paule was a friend. So he's not the only one who's never offended anyone, there's a lot of us here, I mean, almost everyone. We didn't insult anyone. Here, let's get out of it, which I have offended with my discussion. I even commended and rewarded with my discussion and made a fine appearance toward the representative of the opposite camp. So that should be commended, not condemned. And that's what Comrade Vesovic would have to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30048	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? It's my colleague Jolović's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30049	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, under the proposal for a law on foreigners, by adopting this amendment, are further defined by the use of travel documents on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A foreign investor during his stay and leaving the Republic of Serbia is obliged to use the travel documents of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia. This supplement will regulate the movement, functioning of foreign investors without creating certain ambiguities and problems during their stay in our country. It is particularly important for cities of the interior, such as Novi Pazar, to make it clear how foreign investors will move, function and do their jobs. In order to avoid long lines, administrative breakdowns and other obligations that may violate the image of our country, foreign persons, the adoption of this amendment will certainly shorten the process of reporting and functioning foreign persons in all parts of our country, and all in order to organise a quality process that will contribute to the development of our country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30050	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from a colleague, Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30051	Serbia is an open country and there is no problem with foreigners. When we look at all the problems Europe has had in the past few years, then we can say that Serbia has not been part of these problems and Serbia is returning to good. It comes back primarily with the trust that the international community has and with the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, which have dealt with the problem but is returning, I think, even more importantly with the positive relationship of all these people who have been going through Serbia. In the amendment to Article 5. The law on foreigners, we are essentially proposing that rules that operate in the EU be applied in Serbia as well. Because foreigners are certainly an integral part of the functioning of Serbia's economic order. The trend in foreign investment growth, which is very impressive, has led the DBP to have a completely different outlook in Serbia than before 2008. If growth, what was little during some other authorities could be characterized as growth, was primarily based on consumption. When you look at the DBP structure in Serbia today, then the key factors contributing to the growth of DBP are primarily related to the apartment investment, i.e. investment investments and to the side of exports. It is undeniable that Serbia's economy, Serbian businesses, make a key contribution to this, but it is certainly a significant role for foreign investors who have made it possible for the Serbian DBP to look completely different than before the 2008 crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30052	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment, MP Marijan Rističević submitted. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's an old saying, it's better to suffer after the village than to suffer in the country. Unfortunately, from the village lately, on the matter of the id water twice; once it leads to the world, and the second time it's worse, it leads to the next world. Unfortunately for the villages, they don't come back either. The villages became a gathering of smaller or larger nursing homes. During the former regime's party, about 400,000 hectares of land, farmland, has been abandoned. It would be good for some of them to return, especially those who have gone into the world, if those who have gone to that world can't. They may have foreign citizenship at the moment, we don't care, it's important that they return, that with their experience from the white world at least they contribute, if not to primary agricultural production, they process it. Just to remind you that in energy, which is a bang in Europe, on these 400,000 hectares, it will help me, Mrs. Tomic, the abandoned agricultural land. The energy value of two million tons of diesel can be produced. So the energy value of two million tonnes of diesel, which is worth over 1.4 billion euros without taxes and excise. So, they can help with their experience, and we all need to think as they do, if we want to have more, we need to be something taller ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30054	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Stojiljković. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30055	I thank the chairman. Article 5 defines a foreigner who has multiple citizenship as a citizen of the state who gave him the travel document, which he entered, resided and left the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, we are now in favour of this provision as well as the foreign investor. Because getting citizenship through investment can definitely bring significant revenue to our country, as we have seen from several billion euros a year. This programme, whatever we call it, citizenship, passports, is used precisely by wealthy individuals who move to business-friendly destinations, and we definitely see that Serbia is one of them, Europe's most attractive right now. Also, many countries are setting up certain types of offices that help foreign investors to collect documents, administrations, when they set up such businesses. There are few economies that, like our small country, make up for their size to a number of regional agreements and numerous direct foreign investments and therefore remains our priority, namely the government of Serbia's priority to increase the number of employees, to speed up economic growth and, of course, to reduce poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30056	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30057	Thank you, Your Honor. This is another amendment submitted by me and my colleague Tomic, in fact, my colleague Tomic and I, on the proposal for a law on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. Direct foreign investments in 2017 amounted to 2.6 billion euros. Due to better business environments in Serbia, it has led to more and more foreign direct investments. In Belgrade, more than 536 roads have been paved, and 66,000 people have been employed for less than four years, 930km of new water and 138km of sewage network. I can count a lot more taxing, and the IKEA store is open. What am I expecting today? I expect colleagues from this side of the hall, but also colleagues across the street, those of us who desire, to wish so much for our applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30058	By amendment, colleague Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30059	I thank you, Your Honor. Respect for the Honorable Minister and his associates. I will look back and use the time of the parliamentary group and the Foreign Law, above all, in the sense that colleague Stefana Miladanovic, had an amendment that is true, of a technical nature, but we are sure that it allows the law to be applied uninterrupted, because by the government of the Republic of Serbia, it was adopted and I thank the government for that. I would take advantage of the opportunity to point out that the Foreign Law, a quality legal framework, to regulate conditions for entry, movement and stay and return of foreigners from the Republic of Serbia, which is of great importance to Serbia at the time of the great asylum wave, when it has passed through Serbia, you will agree to tens of thousands of refugees from Syria and other areas affected by armed conflicts. The law is practically one upgrade to the now applicable law on foreigners, which was passed in 2008, when the police minister was Ivica Dacic. Speaking of the amendment, our colleague Stefana Miladanovic, this way I will take the opportunity to thank the government and the hearing, because more than 10 amendments have been adopted, distinguished colleagues, when it comes to traffic safety law. I will certainly use time and talk about it when the law comes to the agenda, but it is simply not a burning to say that the contribution was not small and that we are sure that this time, as a parliamentary group, we primarily acted constructively when it comes to the laws on the agenda of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30060	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30061	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment aims to further specify and define the use of travel documents when it comes to foreigners investing in our country. I think this is very important, given the value of investments that have been realised in the Republic of Serbia so far and how this has affected the development of all the regions of our country. Opening new jobs, reducing unemployment and developing all over the world are actually our government's priority. You've just realised it through a number of investments that are coming to us. Running an economy is what we need, especially after years of mending and decaying. Only the government is defined and dedicated to this goal, so factories are opened both in Nis and in Leskovec and in Novi Sad and in Kruševec, which was not the case before. This is not just a declarative push for the development of all the districts, but an effort to improve the quality of life of all the citizens of our country. Therefore, it is crucial that our local self-governments be co-operative, willing to cooperate, be prepared to meet all their obligations, issue permits, but also to commit and encourage the authorities of the state administration to work as efficiently as possible and ensure that all conditions are met, to create new jobs, and to reduce unemployment, which, of course, is in our best interests and will lead to a balanced development of all regions and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30062	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by a National MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30063	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted this amendment with the aim of trying to help make the legislative proposal even better and to achieve all the goals that we have in common, but I must say for the interests of the public and the interests of the citizens. It has been said that our amendments are pointless. Well, the duty of MPs is actually something that we should get back to the start of the mandate, so that some of them can re-educated what the job of the MP is. The job of the MP is to submit amendments, it is to make some criticism according to the legal proposals, it is also to praise the legislative proposals, it is also to talk to the citizens, and it is precisely that the conversation with the citizens lacks members of the opposition who obviously did not come down to the citizens for a long time and for that it is so small that when I hear in the streets, I talk to people, I am sorry that there were no parliamentary elections, they are very sorry, because I am afraid that the members of the current falling opposition would not have room and there would not be enough room in that truck of Paja and Jareth to fill it, so, well, we are seeing each other in the next election, and then look for some other employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30064	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30065	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, I am adding to my earlier amendments that point to the importance of investors and their impact on economic development and the use of economic potentials in Serbia. London's Economist weekly wrote that the opening of the store house of the famous Swedish furniture producer Ikea in Serbia is a symbol of European normality under the mandate of Aleksandr Vukic. Why is "Ikea" such an important foreign investment? Certainly because of the increased volume of investment, new jobs. Over 400 young people got a job. It is also important because it changes the way each individual and society thinks. "Ikee" is not where there is at least no desire to think and work in a new way and a different way. It lays down on every employee, down to the last buyer, and on their desire and ability to take a step further. It encourages everyone to do more and believes that it is even more possible to invest an extra lump and dedication. Apart from "Ikee" on Vozdovac, the Lidl trade chain is also an important foreign investment. Lidl has launched a contest for 1,000 workers, or sellers throughout Serbia. In addition to providing competitive working conditions for employees in terms of compensation and working environment, Lidl will also organise comprehensive training for future employees as part of the basic preparations for successful performance of work tasks, aimed at introducing and training for work. So far, Lidl has employed more than 400 people in corporate functions in Serbia. Given that these chains come from EU countries, where dual education is widespread, I hope that our students will have the opportunity to gain competence in these companies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30066	Thank you. Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Komlenski's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30067	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished ministers with associates, in the proposal for a law on foreigners in Article 5, you have suggested that a foreigner who has multiple citizenship is considered to be a citizen of the state who issued a travel document with which he entered the Republic of Serbia and in Article 2 that during his stay and leaving the Republic of Serbia he is obliged to use the travel document of the state to which he entered the Republic of Serbia. Given that I considered it necessary to separate the notion of foreign and foreign investors and, as my proposals, proposed amendments from one to four, it was proposed to adopt amendment number five in order to add a third position in Article 5 of these two positions that I quoted, which said: "In the course of his stay and when leaving the Republic of Serbia, an investor, who by his business encourages economic development and greater social equality, is obliged to use the travel document of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia." As for precision, so much as due to the continued treatment of Articles 67, 68 and 70 which you have put into this law, which speak of permanent residence and permanent residence in special cases, where it is defined by Article 67(1) that the permanent residence is a permit for the long-term stay of a foreign citizen in the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 2, where a permanent residence is granted to a foreigner who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 70. You have also entered a similar provision in Article 68, relating to Article 70, and Article 70 provides for conditions for the approval of that permanent accommodation, where it is said that, with the request for the approval of the permanent residence of a foreign citizen, and here we suggest that it be divided into a foreign investor, a valid foreign passport must be attached. It is absolutely logical that the document he entered is in the Republic of Serbia and must also be used when leaving the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30068	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30069	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment refers to Article 5(3), which is added and reads: "In the course of his stay and when leaving the Republic of Serbia, the foreigner – an investor, who in his business encourages the economic development of undeveloped municipalities, is obliged to use the travel document of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia." We know that the travel document is a public document with an electronic data carrier, except for a passport that does not contain an electronic data carrier, which serves the citizen of each country to cross the state border, to travel and stay abroad and to return to the country. Article 5(1) and (2) has been defined as a foreigner whose travel documents are considered to benefit from the entry into the Republic of Serbia, but the amendment needs to further define and specify the use of travel documents for a foreign investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30070	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30071	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable fellow Members of the People, when we speak about this amendment, so first of all, I would like to highlight another thing that is very important to each country. The primary goal of each host country is to achieve a long-term economic growth first. This long-term economic growth is most often achieved and can be based on an increase in investments on the one hand, on the technological transfer from the other, but also on an increase in competition on the world market. The most significant way and the most significant moment in this transfer is directly foreign investment. Direct foreign investment and direct foreign investment are the most significant, most optimal and most useful type of capital source, much more significant and much better vision of the investment, i.e. the capital sources than the government debt, the loan raising or foreign aid. For these very reasons, the state of Serbia respects its investors, whether domestic or foreign. In this case, we're talking about foreign investors. In this country anyone who invests money is respected and I think it's a recipe for our further success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30072	I'd like to thank my colleague Laketić. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Lint, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30073	My amendment refers to foreign investors who, by their business, need to improve economic development and improve the situation of refugees and exiled persons. It is well known that about 10% of citizens who have had or have the status of refugees, exiled, displaced persons live in Serbia. It is a category of Serbian citizens who are the biggest victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia and who, as well as a significant number of other Serbian citizens, face one of the biggest problems of our society, which is the issue of unemployment. In a national strategy to address the issues of refugees and exiled displaced persons, one of the strategic goals was to address these problems. International organisations have tried to solve this problem with a number of their previous measures, with the assignment of micro credits, income grants, the organisation of training seminars. Unfortunately, both these micro loans and these grenades were not sufficient to help create a sustainable job for these citizens. That is why it is very important that the government continues to create an ambience for the arrival of an even greater number of foreign investors and as many direct, foreign investment as possible because it is the only, one way for this category of Serbian citizens to resolve this issue, to ensure their existence through a secure workplace, through regular monthly salary so that they and their families can live. It is also very important that the government continues to create an ambience and encourage the development of domestic economy, domestic investors because without domestic economy, we will not be able to move forward if we have only direct foreign investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30074	I'd like to thank my colleague Lint. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Pesic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30075	Dear chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, this amendment facilitates the movement and stay of foreign investors through both Serbia and the Jablani District. A large number of foreign investors from Germany, Turkey, Korea, the Netherlands, Romania and the UK operate on the territory of the Jablanic district. In order to make it easier for all these investors, the government of the Republic of Serbia is investing significant funds for development and the South. Thus, the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 600 million dinars for the construction of the main city collector in Leskovac and 504 million dinars for the second phase of works on a wastewater treatment plant in Bogojevac, so-called. A line of mud, as the fact that such companies also require a sewerage network of appropriate capacity is necessary. The government of the Republic of Serbia also allocates significant funds for the completion of Corridor 10 and Highway E 75, which is directly related to the Jablan and Pcin County, because as much of the highway ends, investors also come. The government of the Republic of Serbia also allocates significant resources to build infrastructure in the Jablanic district, as well as to renovate schools, hospitals, cultural institutions and thus make life easier for all citizens of the Jablanic district, as well as foreign investors staying in the Jablanic district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30076	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Malusic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30077	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment reads – During his stay and leaving the Republic of Serbia, the foreign investor, who in his business encourages economic development and a reduction of social differences, is obliged to use the travel document of the state with which he entered the Republic of Serbia. I have to stress this, and I'm sure all the foreigners will respect it, if they're not deported, that's not the point, but it's unacceptable for me that by 2012, someone was issuing permits, even paperwork for opening and investing in our country 365 days, 700 days, 1,000 days, who knows how many days. We now betray it in 30 days, and that's how one responsible authority does it. The government successfully implemented fiscal consolidation, stabilised public debt, reduced public debt, improved the economic environment, secured a high rate of economic growth, raised living standards, and thus became a good place to invest foreigners. That's why American Amethek Business Campus opened in Subotica, invested in Subotica, opened 500 jobs. And what is most important and should be pointed out is that this company, Amethek Business Campus, did not seek subsidies from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a good example of practice, and it is agreed that all those in the Ameteka system come to Serbia. What needs to be pointed out is, first of all, that we are now in negotiations with 50 companies that are due to provide 27,000 jobs for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30078	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague, Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30079	I thank the chairman. Well, there are no experts across the street, so I have no one to apologize to on the amendment. So here we are in Article 5. The proposal for a law on foreigners and is similar to the previous amendment, but first of all I would like to highlight some significant moments when it comes to the state of the MUP. So, what I said before, so now I'm going to take it up. We heard some disputes both during the principle debate and during yesterday and today. So, for the sake of truth and for the sake of Serbian citizens, that besides the regulation on career progress that we have just discussed here, a regulation has also been adopted on the evaluation of police officers, and this is a very important thing, because this regulation prescribes brand new models, new criteria and criteria for the assessment of police officers. In this way, a good basis was created for the career development and promotion of police officers, all in order to professionalise and strengthen the integrity of the police themselves. Another very important moment, when it comes to the MUP, is that the Ministry and the Criminal and Police Academy have concluded a mutual agreement, i.e. a business co-operation agreement. For the first time, this agreement will provide something that we can freely call plan-based schooling of students of the Criminal and Police Academy, in line with the projected needs of the MUP. It is a major step forward and it is a clear vision of who will be able to work at the MUP after completing the studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30080	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? The word has a colleague, Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30081	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the new Foreign Law is a continuation of the policy of providing a favourable business climate for all investors who would invest in our country and precisely thanks to this good business climate, Aleksandar Vucic has opened more than 60 new factories in Serbia since 2015. Some of them I'll mention. So let's say "Delfi" and "Lir" in Novi Sad, which currently employs 6 thousand people, the PKK in Smederevo, where 370 people are employed in the beginning, and there are as many as 1500 employees planned, "Svarovski" in Subotica with 200 employees, new employees, "Kalcedonija" in Subotica, "Kalcedonija" in Ruma, which employs 600 workers, while in Apatin will employ a total of over 2000 workers, "Djinsi" Turkish textile factory in Krupnje, which employs 120 workers, "Kromberg Shubert" in Kruševec, who currently employs 400 workers, and will employ as many as 2500 workers, "Leoni" in Nis, who is currently one of the largest employers in Serbia and employs 5700 people, while investing 22 million euros and employs as well as 22 people, who employs more than 2200 people, the factory "M. Last week, Aleksandar Vukic and Milos Vucevic opened a "Continental" development centre that will employ 500 engineers, now employs 100 engineers and the average salary will be between 850 and 2500 euros. What's most important, investments continue. Tomorrow, our President Aleksandar Vukic will lay the cornerstone for the new Esex factory in Zrenjanin, which will employ 200 people and is an investment of 30m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30082	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30083	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment defines the rights and obligations of foreign investors staying in our country, when leaving our country its duty to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the use of the travel document. I would also like to say that the proposed amendment aims to link the amendments already proposed on my part and strengthen their effective implementation in real application through interactive action, thus eliminating any risk of possible free interpretation and abuse of the laws and freedom of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30084	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? A fellow Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Foreign investors are primarily interested in investing in a particular country, whether the rule of law, i.e. primarily how and how the judicial system and judicial institutions function. Unlike some previous period when the judiciary was systematically destroyed and destroyed, when a catastrophic reform that literally drove anyone who wanted to invest in Serbia was seriously approached in the past few years by repairing the disastrous situation. On the one hand, this refers to human resources recovery and human resources issues. In several previous years, we have had a large number of judicial elections concerning both prosecutorial and judicial functions with the least possible number of disputes here in the National Assembly, compared to some previous period. There has also been a lot of work, which shows commitment to change, to make changes in the judiciary when it comes to judicial infrastructure. We're just saying that in the previous period, a whole new building of courts were built in Užica and Požarevec, that reconstructions were carried out in the Kingdom, Prijepolje and Zaječar, that a project was designed to build a new Court of Justice in Kragujevac and that a serious reconstruction of the Court of Justice was carried out in Belgrade. Not to mention the fact that it's actually open, when it comes to the judiciary, that human resources have been restored and that, based on the law on enforcement and security, millions and 700,000 old cases have been solved. It is also the establishment of a public notary system and the establishment of e-Justice, i.e. connecting with all other institutions necessary for the functioning of the judiciary. I would like to point out that the restoration of economic courts has also been carried out and invested in the computer equipment of economic courts over 200 million dinars, all of which says that a normal and efficient judicial system has been established and that it strives for a better judicial system to attract foreign investment successfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30086	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? He's a colleague of Birmancevic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30087	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the amendment I have submitted primarily concerns the movement of foreigners and the movement of foreigners, above all, the accent on investors, shows that we had a situation in which these foreigners did not come to Serbia, but were visiting it in a broad port. Just since 2012, everything has gone in the right direction and 60, 70 facilities, i.e. new businesses and new jobs opened in these companies, are proof that we are on the right track. The town of Sabac, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin, Belgrade, any other, existed before 2012, but investors simply did not come there. If we take the example of Shabac, on 26 September 2017, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Ambassador to Japan Đuići Takahar opened a Jasaki factory in Sapac, with a potential of 1700 jobs, with a hall of 30,000 square metres and with planned production, or export of 120 million dinars. What is significant is that Jasaki invests 25m euros in the company, i.e. construction. The state received a 10.1m-euro boost from the state, which only shows that this government and the state think of the even development of all cities, regardless of what was being sold out and sold out only by the time the SNS arrived in 2000. But what's important is that since 2012, there's someone here who can think not only of other cities, but also of Capco. And it was precisely the citizens of Sapca who supported President Aleksandr Vukic in the 2017 elections with 56%, and he extended it to them by opening a "Jasaki" factory with 1700 new jobs. The movement of investors in the future in Serbia will, of course, be in line with the past. So everyone can expect new investments and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30088	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30089	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, have submitted an amendment that further defines travel documents. The task of the state, as well as all of us, as well as the entire government and resolution ministries, is to help create better conditions and create a better business environment that will, of course, enable foreign and domestic investors to invest. I think we're on the right track and that this shows Serbia's position on the Doing Business List of the World Bank, where we've progressed 48 positions in the last three years and now we're in 43rd place, which is the best ranking since when there's even a list. This policy, above all, our Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that we are on a good track, because not only are new investors coming, but those investors who have already invested in our country come and expand their capacities, so the Henkel factory in Krusevec announced 25m euros in new investment for the market with new production technology. It's really something good, and the citizens respect it. It is a sign that we will be able to employ a new workforce and save many families who have lost their jobs by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30090	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30091	Thank you. The proposal for a law on foreigners is a qualitative step towards more and better and is in line with all current world and European norms. But I have sent an amendment to Article 5 of this law and asked for Article 3 to be added where the question of using travel documents is defined. Normally, I will appeal here as well as in all the amendments that I have proposed to this bill, which is the issue of the struggle and fortification of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on economic development and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, and all in the context of the Agenda, already mentioned on my part, 2030 UN, concerning sustainable development and where in certain chapters, and now specifically, there is talk of peace, justice, strong institutions, a world without poverty and hunger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30092	Thank you. The 6th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Nenad Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic, and jointly Nikola Savic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radeta, and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30093	Dear citizens of Serbia, for two days you have listened to the debate of the rotten midwife, about, because everything that has been said about these amendments, or the proposal for a law on foreigners, has nothing to do with the draft law on the agenda. Members of the ruling majority have submitted amendments from which you could hear anything, but nothing about the bill. About 190 times today you could hear what will be done in Serbia when some new foreigners come in, but about 190 times you could hear that in Serbia in fact nothing works, because the ruling majority MPs say there will be a better state of health when there are more foreigners in line with this law, which, of course, doesn't matter, and then say there will be more times when these foreigners come, when they are able to get better IDs, they mostly wrote so they write, so there will be a better state of education, so they will be better state in regional development, even say when foreigners are easier to obtain personal documents will be serious fighting corruption and crime, there will be economic development. If it's all going to be, then that means that the MPs admit that it's gone so far, and that's what we absolutely agree with. As regards the amendments that we have submitted to Article 6 and which indeed has something to do with the bill and Article 6, we ask that part of this article be deleted for legal certainty, because it cannot be said that a stranger can enter and reside in the Republic of Serbia under the conditions laid down in this law with a valid travel document entering a visa or granting a stay. Actually, it can, but it can't unless by law or international agreement it's different. It must be determined by this law and nothing broader than that. The international treaty can only be used to ratify itself in the National Assembly and there is no need to bring it into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30094	Thank you. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30095	Thank you, Chairman. Very constructive. I'm glad to hear about both foreign and domestic investments. I think it is clear to everyone that it is necessary for foreign investors to provide legal certainty. That's what the ruling majority can provide them, which they have to provide and then releases the funds that we now have, because there is no legal certainty, we have to give them the name of the incentive subsidies in order to have any investment at all. So legal certainty will certainly attract foreign investors, and leave enough resources to stimulate domestic economy and domestic investors, because we are neither lazy nor crazy, as it was tried to show up, we can hire ourselves and our fellow citizens. On the other hand, the investments that exist, investors who employ a large number of citizens, which is commendable, please and I suggest that the President of the Council for Population Policy, that among these employees, within these foreign companies, do one study of how treated women are, how many pregnant women, how many maternity families, and what is the status of women who are supposed to become mothers in the first place? (Blaža Knezevic: Ask Bosko Obradovic how he treats women? I am glad that I, too, am so lonely across the street and have the opportunity for citizens to see the rise of the ruling majority of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30096	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30097	It is important, of course, that we always point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is as committed to both domestic and foreign investors. Anyone, absolutely anyone in the Republic of Serbia who wants to invest their money, to open companies and hire people, will get subsidies, will get incentives, will get tax incentives, everything the Investment Law foresees and requires that kind of equality just so someone doesn't think the opposite. What was the problem in many years ago is that the authorities that were conducting such a kind of policy in this country, that they were destroying domestic economy, did not allow the development of more serious companies. These companies can't be competitive in serious markets, because when we talk about production, we always have to see the second medal of that production. Will someone who has the ability to produce a million pieces of something in one day and someone who produces 20 pieces ever be able to be competitive at the price? Of course not. So the market regulates both supply and demand, but also technological ability to produce the best possible product in the unit of time at the only price. That's why it's important for foreign investors to come and develop technology in our country, who will train our workers, and every domestic investor, anyone who wants to buy... There are companies that are bankrupt, there are companies that are large, serious, which some previously pushed into a bankruptcy of bankruptcy. I now call on domestic investors to report or colleagues who suggest it to ensure that these domestic investors come and buy these companies. Today to buy them, to enable them to work, the factories that have been destroyed, to buy them, and the state will give them what it gives to foreign investors and we will be very grateful, anyone will come to help them, to prepare legal regulations for them, just to see who these domestic investors are to appear. So we can't push those people who want to come to this country to invest to say, if we don't need you, it's suffocating some domestic investor. They're welcome, just to see them appear and welcome on equal terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30098	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30099	Thank you, Chairman. Just a little insight. Minister, please continue with the work for which we have delegated you to this respected home, which we have authorized you and your work confirmed by the Budget Act. We ask you to continue with a competition game in which you will continue to attract foreign investors, as we all know today that no one and no one will come to open any factory, any drive if there is no help from the state today, and that the citizens of Serbia should know. Everything else is a floscule and an empty story. As for the very presence of these same investors, which you have also defined through article 6 of this law, I must say that the stay of all investors in this country is not very desirable and can be very painful and such that it makes Serbian citizens very regrettable. That's what he's like. The case of the Austrian firm, investors, ATB Austria, which in 2004, privatised that famous Serbian factory "North" from Subotica, where thousands of people ended up on the street and the factory disappeared. Of course, not only could all of this be directed, they had to have the great help of the then Dossier government and all those who worked, not just to break up the factory, but to break up the entire Serbian state. Now the stay of some, such as the CEO of the company Continental, which opened its research centre in Novi Sad the other day, is also desirable. We think their stay should, I should say, ease up as much as possible. That's where my amendment came from, but not just that. In any case, it is necessary to find an opportunity, whenever possible, and to facilitate their stay through resolving the issues of their citizenship. We are grateful for allowing you, in collaboration with the president of the state, to receive a Serbian passport from the company's research centre "Continental" in Novi Sad, which was handed to him by the president at the very opening of the factory. That's exactly the kind of stay we need in the country right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30100	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. The word has a colleague, Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30101	I have also submitted this amendment, as well as all previous amendments, in order to strengthen the possibility that foreign investors continue to invest in Serbia, and that is possible and that is good, I will show you on the Belgrade case. Here are some capital investments we've had in Belgrade lately. We currently have more than 1,100 sites in Belgrade. The "Belgrade on Water" site is one of the largest construction sites in Europe, and certainly in this part of Europe. We have achieved record low unemployment, i.e. We have less for about 20,000 unemployed than before. The Prokop station was completed after 40 years. 40 years ago, she started it! It's over now. A new bus stop is beginning in Block 42 in New Belgrade. The problem with the Vinca deposit has been solved, through a public-private partnership worth 300m euros. The “Makis 2” water factory has been completed and drinking water supplies have been provided for the next 20 years. The 40m-euro Zemun Polje-Dunav rain collection was completed. Construction starts from Obrenovac to New Belgrade. The primary sewerage network in Belgrade is ending and the construction of a wastewater processing plant is complete. Building permits have been issued for more than two million squares, and the issue of permits is on average in 12 days. That's why we need foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30102	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Kovacevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30103	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Ministry of the Interior continues with extraordinary results and great work on solving key problems concerning the security of citizens, both our citizens and foreigners. All indicators indicate that significant results have been achieved in the fight against corruption and crime, as well as in the repression of all types of criminal offences, whether it is about curbing the general criminality or border security, but also the high level of legality in the conduct of police officers, maintaining public order and peace or providing protection in emergency situations. There are clear data on the stable state of police and the internal affairs sector at all. As I said in the principle debate, the past period has marked serious police actions, successful and committed work by police officers, leading to visible and undeniable results. The laws on which interior ministry expert teams worked have been fully implemented and therefore continues with significant investment in police to be modern, efficient and high-quality and ready for all tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30104	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30105	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, the interior ministry continues to harmonize the laws of its jurisdiction with EU laws, applying, of course, all directives, and all in accordance with respect to security, security, both foreign and our citizens. Also, this bill guarantees fundamental human rights in the highest possible way. I will return to the rights that concern particularly vulnerable groups, which are children. I pointed out earlier how much the Ministry of Interior has done so far during the migrant crisis to protect the best interests of unaccompanied minors. I also cited information on the construction of a special department in the House "Kleveka" for the reception of migrants built by the Swiss Development Agency, and the director of the Swiss Development Agency, at the opening, said in November 2016 that the result of the construction of this facility was precisely excellent co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also with the Ministry of Interior and all other competent institutions. What is indisputable is that the Ministry of the Interior through this law and how it protects children without parental escorts, and by prescribing their compulsory involvement in the educational process, as well as through the possibility of finding an adequate solution in order to bring them together with their family of origin. Also, this law strictly prohibits the distance of foreigners, except in cases where it is reliable to know that minors will connect with their family or be referred to an institution of social protection that deals with the admission of minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30106	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? A colleague of richinovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30107	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted this amendment to present my town of Leskovac, where I come from, as a place with a good business environment, a place worth investing in, in all branches of the economy, and especially in agriculture. Leskovac is the world capital of barbecues, metropolis of good entertainment and a place where chefs of cuisine meet for years. In order to affirm the preparation of meat barbecues by traditional recipe, for 28 years in continuity, the Tourist Organisation of the town of Leskovci organizes one of the largest gastronomic festivals in this part of Europe, the famous "Rostilijad". The event is visited by more than half a million guests from all parts of our republic, region, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Slovenia, as well as other parts of Europe and the world. At the popular Wide Chars in the city center during the seven-day period of the event, uniform stands were set up where the most famous hosts of Leskovec and other cities of the Republic prepare and serve specialties from the barbecue. In addition to the barbecue, the most famous timber brand, Leskovac connects around the world with another specialty, which is a wooded ajvar. The Regional Chamber of Commerce of Leskovci, in collaboration with the Association "Leskovac Ajvar", the tourist organization of the town of Leskovac and the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives for Jablanski and Pcinjska district, organizes the Fair of Woodakowic Ayvar, winters and drinks, where exhibitors from Leskovac, Vranja, Bujanovac, Leban, Bosilevgrad and other places present their products at about 40 stands. Only in our town is ajvar preparing for a traditional and unique recipe. By protecting the aivar as a wood brand, we managed to raise this kind of delicacy to an even higher level and increase the placement of our aivar to the world's tables. After the barbecue of meat and woody ajvar, the protected product of geographical origin will also become a woody grill in the coming period, the procedure is in the final phase. Ladies and gentlemen, all this I've presented really leads to the conclusion that Leskovac has the potential for foreign investors to arrive. Of course, in Leskovac, as in Belgrade, citizens trust Alexander Vukic, SNS and, of course, Mayor Goran Cvetanovic. That's right, it says the fact that only eight days ago in Leskovac held elections for members of the board of all 139 local communities. The elections included 46,987 voters or 39% of voters, and the list "Alexander Vukic – Because we love Leskovac" received 92.93% of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30108	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30109	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, Mr Stefanovic, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am like an MP and a man who comes from one of the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, submitted an amendment wishing to support foreign investors who want to invest in undeveloped areas, in undeveloped areas and thus develop agriculture. I was just talking about shepherding, gambling, and now I'm going to talk about beefing. That this is a chance, a great chance of developing undeveloped areas, with strong investors investing in cattle farming through a cow-body system. I can remind you that a large number of municipalities in southeastern Serbia that are mountainous mountainous, which are underdeveloped and have many grasslands free, can serve to pasture those throats and we will thus provide a lot of investment through quality meat. I can remind all those present and remind all citizens that nature in our small communities is uncontaminated, that there are medicinal herbs that feed these cows, and that's why it's very high-quality meat. Through a cow-body system where there's no need to make a husband of those cows, she's moving her milk through the calf, and later that calf grows, which is normal, it's very good quality. This investor who invests funds in these small municipalities really has the opportunity to secure his own profits, and in the same way to ensure profit and survival and our farmers who want to deal with livestock. In this way we help our municipalities like Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han and other municipalities that have capacities, but they need incentives and investments. That's why I'm going to remind my colleagues once more to vote for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30110	Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30111	Article 6 contains one position relating to the entry and stay of foreigners. I felt that another position should be added to this article and I submitted an amendment aimed at precisely defining the entry and stay of foreign investors in our country. That is why I will give an example of Vlasotinac and the company Gruner who employs 480 workers in this town in southern Serbia. So, 480 families live thanks to employment in this company. The stay of these and such foreigners in our country is, in any case, necessary, unlike those who, together with domestics, have destroyed our economy in the privatisations behind us and we all need to focus on attracting them and staying in our country as long as possible. That's why we need to co-operate with our national authorities. Should I point out once again that 170,000 workers are employed in Serbia, thanks to foreigners working in our country, from Saturday to the south, or to Presevo. I think this is very important because, together with domestic investors, it affects Serbia's accelerated economic development.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30112	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30113	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issues of entering and staying in the country, of course, should always be seen in the context of Serbia's openness. This openness that exists today can be recognized in our relationship with everything, colloquially large players on a planetary level. And when we look at relations with EU countries, we can only realize that we are working with these countries today better than ever, and of course it has to do with the successful European integration of Serbia. With countries with which we make about 70% of our trades, we are achieving an ever-increasing coverage of exports year after year. There were today words on the subject of subsidies and, as we heard some theories about the lack of legal certainty where subsidies exist. I'm glad to have your attention, ladies and gentlemen. So it would be good to note that, for example, in these European countries these subsidies also exist. It's unusual then that someone draws a conclusion, I guess they don't get away with it, that there's no legal certainty there. Right? It's supposed to be a logical relationship. At least unusually much that comes to those who have recently declared themselves to have made a drastic change in their political stance and now, they themselves say, are not against the EU. Furthermore, when I talk about relations with large ones, and this is seen in relations with the Russian Federation, with which we are also working extremely hard. For example, through procurement programmes, new weapons, military equipment, and programmes concerning the agreement that we adopt at this session, which are critical of all the so-called. Citizens and other Serbians, as well as their coalition partners, who have criticised the issue of subsidies. And co-operation with the United States with which we have a direct plane line, and we have never had cooperation with the NRC with which we have achieved many good things together, we have saved "The Iron", and we expect to find a good solution for RTB Bor. This is the reality today, thanks to the politics of Alexander Vukic, the SNS and with it have nothing to do with those who have criticised our subsidy measures and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30114	Thank you. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you are, my colleague, the Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30115	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, foreigners, investors who come to Serbia, in order to carry out economic activity, which contributes significantly to the economic development and development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, should be granted a status aimed at facilitating the movement and stay of foreign investors in our country. At the same time, to provide an even better vision of control for all security carriers in the Republic of Serbia. The state of Serbia has taken the place of leader in the region in both political and economic terms. Coming to power from the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, who is first in the prime minister's position, and now at the post of Serbian President, hit the foundations of a new, better, more successful, fiscally consolidated Serbia, which enjoys respect throughout the world. It is logical, therefore, that we already have a large number of investors in Serbia, and that an even greater number of large companies are on their way to Serbia. For this reason, it is proposed to facilitate the movement and stay of foreign investors in Serbia, all of course in accordance with the law and control of our security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30116	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic. Here's a colleague of Atlagic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30117	Dear Vice President, this amendment, I wanted in some way to further define the entry and exit, or the stay of foreign investors in our country. How much foreign investors influence improving education and education best shows that 360 schools and hospitals were built in 2016, thanks to the rest of the foreign investors in our country. How much Serbia holds on to foreign investments also shows that Serbia was the first in the world to have direct foreign investments in 2016. Then Serbia had over 80 implemented projects, 20 more than in the previous year. What is it that ladies and gentlemen tell us? It tells us that our country is safe in which the most important contributors to the MUP led by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and there is a good part in this by our Government and President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. They deserve our country to be safe and to invest as much as possible in our country. Nor should the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who worked tirelessly, and besides, those who did not contribute to it, in 4.3. in 2018, blew them off the political scene in the Belgrade parliament elections. I believe he will never return to Serbia's political stage again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30118	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Here you go, colleague Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30119	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers with Associates, Honorable fellow Members, People's MPs, Amendment to Article, and a law that creates in one part an ambience where each investor will feel full support at every stage of his investment. Regarding direct investment, 2.7 billion euros of foreign direct investment were made last year. These investments encourage economic growth, when we have them properly, and not as some who, when privatising everything that was worth that money, used only for expenditures, without any dinar invested in growth. When we talk about foreign investment and these subsidies to investors, the Law on Foreign Investments equalises the rights of domestic and foreign investors. When we talk about growth, this growth helps us invest in our dedicated industry, which in 2012 exported 154m euros, and in 2017 close to 500 million, the plan is for 2020 to be one billion. However, the biggest critics of such an economic policy and in general investments in Serbia's dedicated industry are those who are understood only for purposeless spending of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30120	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Yokic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30121	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, I must remind you that the country was completely destroyed on October 5, 2000. In the years that followed, total economy was destroyed. There's nothing left for us but to develop much faster after their descent from power, when we came to power, than it allows us to develop GDP or, simply put, how much our inner capabilities allow. One sum of GDP is investment. So it's a summation. If the sum is limited, then the additions are limited, so we understand each other. So that term is limited. Because we predict that GDP is growing somewhere by 3.5% in 2018. So that's how we limit investment by our own means. I think, today or yesterday, I don't know when I said it, and that's true, that we're developing 12 times faster than we're allowed by GDP. How can we do that? Well, we can, because we call, call, and create conditions for a foreigner to appear – an investor. That's why we've been talking about this concept today, this personality, this stranger -- an investor who doesn't have to be a legal person, it can be an individual, we have to water it, we have to nurse it to get into a situation to live better, to live the way the rest of the world lives. We've budgeted 30% more investment in development, but we can't do it anymore. What we can't do anymore, what we said, and we said, and I told you that, 182 billion at the state level, 128 billion at the republican level, but that's not enough, and that's why we have to turn to foreigners -- investors. This amendment is a natural continuation, this is actually an implication of everything we've said so far. For if it appears in Article 5, it must also appear in Article 6, as it will later appear in Article 7, etc. Minister, just a little attention, please, be careful, around the stay... (Nobojsa Stefanovic: We watch non-stop. All right, I got a feeling you've got to take special care of this. Dual education, I'm coming back around here again. This stay means that the foreigner who helps and allows this dual education to develop at a faster rate, better, stronger, faster, should be given priority. That's what you said, we're not talking about how much this law needs to be changed, our story is more about what's going to come, about those regulations and the laws that you're going to write again. Let these laws and those rules make this term "foreigner – investor" and give special benefits to a foreigner – an investor who will improve and help develop dual education, because this is the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30122	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30123	Ladies and gentlemen of Serbia's citizens, Obrenovac, Sabac, Subotica, Apatin, Koceljevo, Leskovac, Nis, Novi Sad, Žitoraj, Zrenjanin, Kruševac, Smederevo, Novi Pazar are just some of the cities that my colleagues have apostrophyd these days in this debate. Of course I neglected some, forgot, because how can you not forget when 60 factories in Serbia were opened in the past few years. With this amendment to Article 6, we are asking for a foreign investor to move freely through the Republic of Serbia and this is about our idea of regionally developing Serbia evenly. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, made it possible for Serbia to develop regionally. We mostly talk about benefits, we talk about jobs, about tens of thousands of families making money, and somehow we think about those 60 new companies, 60 new factories bringing new technology to Serbia, which we needed so much. In addition to these hundreds of thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of logistics jobs have been opened. The banking sector, new infrastructure, logistics that is necessary for the functioning of such large systems has been developed. Developing Serbia, not centralizing it, we develop all parts of Serbia and allow all citizens of Serbia to have benefits from the functioning of such a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30124	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the great Serbian writer Ducic said – the worst thing is to be old, sick and poor. Some people find it funny. Don't, Mr. Meso, just you about Ducic. It was the very accident that struck the Serb village. In the 1990s, while we were putting up with the burden of economic and military pressures on our country, and therefore the burden of social peace, we were hoping, which was what we were fighting for change and promised, that after 2000, the village and the peasants would be returned. Unfortunately, this contract with the people, with the village and with the peasants is not respected and what Ducic said has hit us – old, sick and poor. Instead of us, the "damage" is compensated for those who have been rich while we have all been poor during the sanctions. The tycoons have acquired 30,000 hectares of land, the three alone have 100,000 hectares of land. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture and villages, but also of demographics. There are less than 100 people in the population, and they are usually along the border, Serbia is empty. That is why it is worth it to return those who have come out of our country, even though they have foreign citizenship, and to try through processing and investing in agriculture to keep the existing population and to return some. In order for us to be better, ladies and gentlemen, we ourselves must be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30126	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Ivana Stojiljković. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30127	I thank the chairman. The amendment to Article 6 is referring to the status of investors, foreigners and their entry and residence in the Republic of Serbia. This amendment proposal is to introduce a special position that we really want to draw attention to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and, in particular, to the 10 objective of reducing inequalities within countries and to the 17 objective of the global partnership in economic sustainable development. Why is the subject of this amendment even so when we talk about economic development? Because what we had a chance to hear from the investors themselves who have been here for almost 18 years, like. Mitan Holding Company in Smederev, which deals with the storage of oil derivatives. When a positive legislative environment is created and a solution has been made in general by the Serbian government since 2013/2014. year, by changing many legal solutions, right here in the Assembly, then we get the investor's answer why they just chose Serbia, which is because they have one stable business when it comes to the legislative framework, the tax system and those who think there are young, educated and very valuable people in Serbia. That is why Mitan's companies decided, the company in Smederevo, to build a new rail track and a service station that will increase its capacity, which will have five per cent storage of total oil derivatives for the entire region of Serbia. These are the results of the responsible government. These are the results of all economic reforms of fiscal consolidation. That is why foreigners who come here to improve their investments and through a public-private partnership should be defined in a certain way by staying in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30128	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague named Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30129	Dear Minister, this amendment relating to Article 6. The law on foreigners and this amendment defines the entry and stay of foreigners who are willing to invest, or invest in our country. It's important to regulate this area, because investments trigger our economy, create conditions for the development of cities and municipalities and the launch of all areas. It is very important and in this way we prevent young people from leaving their places, from shutting down our cities and municipalities, and it is essential that we all engage and take all the steps to attract more investment, create more jobs and ensure that our citizens live honestly from their work. The conditions have been met, and it is certain that investors recognize that. It is important that our local self-governments are also ready for co-operation, not to be inert, ready to meet all their obligations, to issue building permits and all that is necessary for the drives to be opened and people to be employed. This is important for the launch of our economy, which unfortunately has been destroyed for years and jobs have been closed. Serbia has managed to attract about seven billion euros in foreign investment in just three years thanks to good investment measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is the result of a serious relationship between the state and investors and investment. The budget envisions 15 billion dinars of incentives for the economy, and the expected time to return these incentives through public revenues is 14 months, which shows one justification for the budget's planned funds. It is an extremely good signal for the investor that Serbia is well positioned on the Duing Business List, ease of business, i.e. takes 43 places and it is certain that these parameters contribute to a greater number of investments in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30130	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30131	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some 2.7 billion euros have entered direct investments in Serbia in 2017. It's big money for our country. It is big money for every country, and especially for Serbia that is yet to develop, to create new factories and new jobs. Why is this 2.7 billion euros important? Those 2.7 billion are not together with some privatisation revenues, but a direct investment in our country. Some boasted earlier about the privatisation of Maksi, Miskovic's Maxi, where Maxi was sold to Delez for a price of nearly 2 billion euros and they counted it as an investment in Serbia. So the sale of private companies was accounted for as an investment. That's not the case with us. What I have to point out is that the problem of birth is something that is closely related to investment, security, even development. The more economic success our country has, the more investment we have, the more Serbia develops more closely, which is the case in the previous four, five, six years that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic are very careful and I would say they are looking very carefully at where to invest, where to invite investors to invest, especially in those places where the factory's decades have not been opened, where everything is just closed, where people have fled from their cities, villages and municipalities. For the first time we have in the last 20, 30 years that right there are factories opening up, there are jobs opening up, and we have a chance to preserve Serbia and continue to develop it, and one of the preconditions is to continue with reforms and, among other things, to adopt such legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30132	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Studenka Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Kovačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30133	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear ministers, I have already given instructions to investors on economic development and the use of economic potentials and how their business in Serbia contributes to a better standard. I would also say that foreign investors are the most important political stability in a country and safe and predictable working conditions. Serbia's economy has significantly improved its financial outcome through major efforts made to increase the size of the business but thanks to the reduction of net costs based on interest and exchange rates, resulting in huge savings. Such a result is one of the best confirmations of the regularity of the NBS-led policy, as it creates more perspectives that businesses will continue to invest in existing but also new jobs and thus contribute to a sustainable acceleration of economic growth. Foreign exchange reserves that represent an important factor in each country's economic defence against any external earthquakes not only have been preserved but have been increased. The dinar is stable, inflation stable, and foreign investors' trust and increased purchase of dinar securities is another cause of strengthening Serbia's currency. All these results are, in fact, the fruit of Alexander Vukic's bold decision to break the unsustainable economic policy based on a false picture of overrated revenues and underrated commitments. We stopped spending advances on what we didn't earn, and good economic policy and good international relations undoubtedly contributed to the fact that the business climate in Serbia today is far better than it was five years ago, and the economy is constantly making progress. Foreign investors welcome everything that has been done in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30134	Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a colleague of Komlenski's.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30135	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, the amendment to Article 6 is a logical continuation of the amendments that have been submitted to previous members. A simple distinction between a foreigner and a foreign investor is a useful thing to build into this law by having a truly balanced approach to give a foreign investor certain privileges in relation to the category of an ordinary foreigner but also creating no space for any kind of abuse. The measure for this is, in fact, the usefulness of a foreign investor who comes to Serbia to simply invest and the purpose of it all is to raise Serbia's citizens' standards. The amendment to Article 6 will in particular affect the application of this law, which is defined in Articles 11, 12, 13, 15 and 16 which define the issue of border control, entry and exit on the basis of a common travel document, the obligations of the carrier, the consequences of illegal entry into Serbia, the possibility to deny or refuse entry or entry and stay without a visa. No one but those who have the right under the ratified international visa-free agreements, Serbia will certainly not by this law, nor with the help of these amendments that we propose to approve that they enter Serbia uncontorledly, but certain discounts, certain priorities just out of respect for Serbia's citizens' interests must and can establish further functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30136	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30137	My amendment refers to Article 6 that in Article 1 that already exists in the law, it is said under which conditions a stranger can enter and reside in the Republic of Serbia. Item 2 which is added and reads - a foreigner, an investor who encourages economic development, undeveloped municipalities can enter and reside in the Republic of Serbia under conditions defined in the position of the 1st member of the law. The entry and stay of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia has been regulated in accordance with the law or relevant international agreements, which implies the control of the movement and residence of foreigners consisting of the regulation of visas, the residence of permanent residence of foreigners and other transactions defined in the law. As Article 6(1) defines the conditions under which a foreigner can enter and reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia should be further amended to define the entry and stay of a foreign investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30138	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30139	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People. So, in line with the content of this amendment, first of all, I would say that it is very important, that link between the country on the one hand and the investor, on the other hand. Because every serious state tends primarily to bring in as many foreign investors as possible. This is the only way to achieve an adequate long-term and sustainable economic development. In practice, however, it is not all that simple. The republican administration is in practice, but local administration is facing a lot of problems. In fact, one of the most significant problems they face, let me say, local self-government is the problem of infrastructure. It's a road infrastructure problem, it's a road network problem. In fact, investors tend to opt for a specific city, a particular region, only if it has an adequate road connection with other parts of the country. That's what this government has been working on intensively. This is what our country, our country, the government of the Republic of Serbia managed to produce truly fascinating results. This rule headed by Aleksandra Vukic led to the end of the Corridor 10 eastern arms, Corridor 10 southern arms, and the completion of these works is expected to take place this year. But what is even more important, above all for the people of Toplice, but this importance goes beyond the borders of this region, is the construction of the Nis-Pristina highway, which will primarily allow the survival of the people in those areas, which will allow an adequate industrialisation of the region, one even and on the other hand, at this point an intense economic growth in the Toplic region.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30140	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30141	There are about 700,000 refugees, exiled and internally displaced people living in Serbia, of which a significant number still has not solved two key problems. The first problem is the issue of housing, and the other problem is employment. In the area of housing, a regional housing programme is currently being implemented in Serbia aimed at helping the group's permanent integration into Serbia. Unfortunately, we have several thousand refugees and exiled persons who, by various circumstances, have not received refugee status and now have no right to compete on housing programs, to get help through obtaining apartment, country property, house installation or the assignment of a package of building materials. These people also address the Commissioner for Refugees, personally to me, appeal, asking how to solve their problem, to formally obtain at least one day's refugee status, in order to obtain the necessary conditions for them to apply for new programmes. Among them is a significant number of extremely endangered persons, or families. It's one big problem that we should try and see with our government and the Refugee Commissioner, how to solve it, that these people can finally solve their question, compete for those programs. There are also a number of other problems, and among them is one fact that in the first phase of solving their problems, they have received small grants, and now they have failed to resolve housing issues, but now the Commissioner for Refugees, through a regressive mini programme, is not giving them additional funds, and these people are now, neither on the Chardak nor on the Earth, because they can't solve their own housing issue. There are many problems in this area, and indeed, we need to do everything in our power to solve them, to make it easier for people to solve key integration issues, and that's the issue of housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30142	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30143	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the government of the Republic of Serbia is working to facilitate the entry of foreign investors into Serbia by legal regulations, as well as to ensure that they stay as high as possible in Serbia. In order to ensure better living conditions, for the citizens of Leskovec but also for all foreigners and investors who are staying in Leskovac, a lot has been done since the SNS in the Leskovac government. So, 60 streets in the length of 20,000 meters were paved, and 70 streets replaced a water network, which was up to five decades old, and the length of the works carried out was 32km, and 17 thousand meters of sidewalks were built. Over 2m euros were invested in modernising the heating system. It is constantly investing in improving health care and there is no infirmary in the territory of the city that has not been renovated. Also, in a general hospital in Leskovac, all departments have been renovated. All the institutions of culture have been reconstructed. All these investments are important both for the people of Leskovec, who live in Leskovec and for all foreign investors who live in Leskovec because this is how they are provided with a stay. The Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility in Leskovac at the end of 2012, did not inherit a debt of two billion dinars and that no executive judicial solutions for the failed DS projects arrive today, only in February the city received an executive court ruling on 80 million dinars for the failed project, so on. "Bushotine", where the Democrats tried to find hot water in the field and trust me that much more would be done in Leskovac, to create much better conditions for the citizens of Leskovec, but also for investors, foreigners who live in Leskovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30144	The word has Ljiljana Malušić
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30145	When we talk about investment, it's important where that investor should be taken. It's usually devastated areas, areas that are very poor. We have a difficult task here, because the investor won't go into such areas. He's looking, above all, for a good infrastructure, for a good environment, and for the support of local self-government. What's good for us is the World Bank estimate that in 2015, from 97th place, we made 43rd place, and that's one of the indicators that we're a really good investment country. What happened from 2000 to 2008 and 2010? In fact, this country was completely devastated. How? Thanks to bad privatisations, 586 companies are totally naked. What was good was bought for one euro. The tycoons at the time bought these companies for one euro, and they striped the rest. So the naked companies returned to the Republic of Serbia. This is an example of Jelizara Smederevo, and if it hadn't been for our Chinese friends and Hestil company, which bought Zelizara for 46m euros, 5,500 families would have lost their jobs, without elementary living conditions. And not only that, Hestil said that in the coming years, he would invest another 300m euros, overqualify, educate people, create a good environment for life. That's how it works. Thank them, and thank the SNS for having the strength, the will and the talent to endure difficult measures and for Serbia to be a good place to live today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30146	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30147	Thank you, Chairman. I urge you immediately to convey my apologies to colleagues who are not here today, great experts, which I have submitted to the amendment and to Article 6. Proposal for a foreign law.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30148	I'll pass, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30149	I thank you in advance. Article 6 also highlights economic development and modernisation. It is extremely important to modernise the police, and in this respect I am particularly emphasising the purchase of new vehicles and equipment for members of the MUP. So in 2017 alone, only last year, the MUP acquired more than 700 new cars, which were deployed by police administrations, police stations throughout Serbia. All employees at the MUP know very well what conditions they are working on today, and in what conditions they used to work in the past while others were worried about the state of the MUP, not to mention the increase in wages, which came recently, and new uniforms, and equipment, and that the reconstruction of the largest number of police stations was carried out. I would especially point out the planned purchase of a helicopter that will happen for the first time in 40 years. So, all this says in favour of what the situation is today, or at what level the police in Serbia are at today, and at what level it used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30150	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 concerning foreigners who, by investing in the Republic of Serbia, encourage the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and strengthen its security structures. I think all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are witnessing a correlation that exists between the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and the strengthening of its security capacities. The big question is whether Serbia would be at this stage of military power today if no radical fiscal consolidation measures were taken at the end of 2013 and early 2014, and that since 2014 and so on, for four years, there have been no more than 60 companies in Serbia and that only last year we did not have direct foreign investments of about 2.6 billion euros. This all contributed to the fact that Serbia is much safer today, that today we can obtain the most modern means of combat for both our military and our police, and as a confirmation of such a successful policy tells the fact that thanks to the engagement of President Vukic, during his visit to Moscow, at the end of 2016, the contracted purchase, a practical gift, six MiGs, 30 tanks and 30 armored vehicles. I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue with such a policy, and we MPs of the SNS want to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in such a policy. We also want to enable, through the laws proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all those investing in the Republic of Serbia, who are opening new jobs in Serbia, to continue with such a policy of teaching, because only strengthening the economy is a condition and a way to strengthen our security structures, both in military and police terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30152	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here's my colleague, Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30153	Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the most important factors deciding on the arrival of foreign investors is its financial and economic stability. The government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to build a country that has been worldly recognised as a financially economic and financial stable country by the reform measures launched by Aleksandar Vucic. What best paints one country's financial stability is certainly its budget and I would like to show you what that budget looked like before 2012 and why we had much less investment then. In 2008, the previous regime planned a budget deficit of minus 45 billion dinars, with a deficit of even minus 72 billion. In 2009, they planned a deficit of minus 49 billion, and they achieved a deficit of minus 127 billion dinars. In 2010, they planned minus 82 billion and reached a minus 141 billion. In 2011, they planned a 93 billion deficit and reached a minus 163 billion dinar. In 2012, they planned 124 billion, and you know how many deficits they achieved, or what the budget minus, 245 billion dinars. What has it been like since SNS led Serbia? In 2015, we planned a fiscal deficit of 191 billion and it was 141 billion. So 50 billion less. In 2016 we planned a deficit of minus 87 billion, and we achieved a minus 54 billion. So 33 billion less. In 2017 we planned a deficit or minus 69 billion dinars, and gentlemen, we achieved a surplus of as many as 90 billion dinars. Today, after three months of 2018, we have 22.1 billion dinars in our budget in plus, and that's why they'll come and keep the investors coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30154	Thank you, colleague Michin. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go, Dr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30155	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment defines the entry and stay of foreign investors in our country. The presence of foreign investors on our market is very important, and I will point out that on the case of my hometown of Nis and the environment. Namely, you all know, the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Nis, that thanks to the huge engagement, great effort, work and diligence, the huge invested energy of President Vukic, has managed to start the city of Nis and southern Serbia from scratch, resulting in Nis now becoming and becoming slowly but surely a new industrial centre of Serbia, and also developing south Serbia, so that the sentence is no longer valid – the southerner, the sadder. You know, he was on his way into the town of Nis stood – Welcome to the city of electronics. For years, however, the former regimes have destroyed everything that could be destroyed, so neither the city's "g" nor the "e" of electronics remains, unfortunately. This image is changed by the arrival of the SNS to power both in the state and in the town of Nis and thanks to the enormous engagement of President Vukic, so thanks to the geographical position the city of Nis has, the intersection of roads, infrastructure, highly qualified personnel, near Constantin the Great Airport, we become very attractive, attractive both to domestic and foreign investors. I'll just mention some of the investments that are in the process of realisation in the town of Nis. If time's up, thank you, and I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30156	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Here you go, colleague Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30157	The law on foreigners, which we have been discussing for several days, has undoubtedly been a timely, adequate and concrete normative response from the state to the migrant crisis. It could be said that it represents a kind of accumulation of experience that the state has had in the face of this challenge that has taken place across Europe. If the normative solutions of the Foreign Law are considered, it can be said that they represent a kind of balance between respect for international law and international standards and the realization of security protection, as the main objectives of this law, i.e. Realising these goals, the Republic of Serbia is shown, on the one hand, as a human state, and on the other hand as an effective, organised strong state. It is no doubt that these messages, with solutions in the Foreign Law, send a strong message to those who want to invest in Serbia that Serbia is an organised state, that there are strong institutions, that there are concrete solutions that will ensure both the security and protection of all investments that come into the state of Serbia. That is why the law with the objectives it has set, with the solutions it has defined, is the best proof that Serbia is being regulated, that Serbia remains safe and that Serbia is becoming attractive to foreign investment. In any case, a real reaction at the right time by the Serbian state to the experience of the caused migration crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30158	Thank you, colleague Palalic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30159	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens, the amendment I submitted to the Foreign Law, above all, refers to a part that defines exactly the activities of foreign investors to strengthen the economic potential and economic development of the region. As a result of the policy so far, and by this very law we will strengthen both the intensity and the possibility of foreigners to make their projects even stronger and faster. We have the development of all regions. When we start from Subotica via Novi Sad to Ruma, we continue through Šabac, to Koceljeva, Ub and Valjeva, etc., we have regions such as Ruma and Šabac, Koceljeva, on the other hand, where we have one-digit unemployment in Koceljeva and Ruma, and we are talking about investments that came right here in 2012. It was precisely Ruma and Koceljeva that existed before the SNS, but only since 2012 did investors start coming here and that the number of unemployed with more than 25% reduced to single-digit unemployment. There are almost no unemployed people anymore in Ruma and Koceljeva. All those who want to work have a place to work. It's even a problem to find, so investors have to raise their wages so they can get as high-quality workers as possible. At the same time, in Šapac, where the remains of the yellow company are still in power, while the Ubu passes the highway, people open new roads, new bridges, new highways, corridors that used to be on maps, end up. In Šapac, the remains of the yellow company are shown as an event by the mayor who paves the way between Šitar and Tabanovic, who instead of the roads of the rock splash and who are still in villages, which surround the town of Sabac, we don't even have drinking water, and the sewers can only dream. This is exactly the difference between the government led by the SNS and the responsibility towards its citizens and the yellow company, which by 2012, destroyed the country and destroyed it, but the state finally recognized who and who can lead them and therefore, we are on the right track, and better days are coming for Shabac. Among other things, they can announce that at last everything that was just an idea and that they promised everyone since World War II on here, the highway Shabac – Ruma, or Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, and become a reality before 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30160	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go, colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 6 concerning the entry and residence of foreigners. As I said, 2017 is the year when investors invested more than 2.6 billion euros in our country. Of course we won't stop at that. We try to attract foreign investors from day to day, both domestic and domestic. What I would point out on this occasion is that in Kruševec, the city from which I come, not only foreign investors invest. It's not just Cromberg and Schubert factories, it's not just Lidl, it's not just Nepi. The IMC company's problem "14. October’. The Dossov government, which destroyed the takeover and was trying to deceive citizens by not having any of Tatra's arrivals, has managed to bring "Tatra" to this company, or " Czechoslovak Group"'s daughter, to the Czech company and to save the company's collapse. The lock that was placed by those who are not here now, SNS, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, Mr. Bratislav Gasic, manage to save the company and bring the workers back to the factory. Let's move on. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30162	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30163	Thank you. The openness of our country and good legal proposals such as Article 6 of this law lead to an increase in the number of foreigners in our country, particularly tourists. But the objective of my amendment was to support the government of the Republic of Serbia in efforts to economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia and attract foreign investors. Since this amendment has been rejected, it may be resolved by some sublegal act. While I'm talking about this, I'm thinking of a media speculation that's been going on these days, a statement by Mr. Rinco's Croatian electric car manufacturer, that a major car manufacturer from Europe is planning a major investment in the Western Balkans, and above all in the Republic of Serbia. Then he mentioned himself as a city that used to have the production of planes. I, as far as I know, in Serbia, only three cities had the production of planes. That, fortunately for me, is King, Belgrade and Panchevo. I'd be able to transfer that investor to the King's border crossing on my shoulders. So don't think I forgot about my favorite topic, which is the 2030 Agenda and sustainable development, I'll just mention that one of the chapters in that Agenda is talking about infrastructure. When I talk about infrastructure, I immediately remember the completion of Corridor 11 from Požega to Surcin, and after that, I hope to open the works of the other, to me a very dear corridor of Moravia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30164	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković, together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is given by the MP Marija Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30165	Thank you. Here, thanks to the other speakers, I only got the chance to work for Serbian citizens to point out that Dvori has absolutely nothing against the EU or any Member State. On the contrary, Serbia should co-operate with the EU and build bilateral relations with all countries of Europe, but on equal grounds. What we are against is blackmail from Brussels and the Brussels senseless blackmail, which is to sign a binding comprehensive agreement and the conditions of all conditions of Kosovo's betrayal and Metohija. So, let's not pretend that we don't know what's behind those 115 conditions that we have to meet, in order to maybe once, by 2025, get a signal that we might enter and become a member of that European Union. The Courts have no objection to co-operation on an even basis, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat it again, so that I will not be misread again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30166	Thank you, colleague Janjušević. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30167	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if it's necessary to stress that respect for the law in every country is something that is understood and something that is mandatory. There's no difference when it comes to Serbia. Through all these amendments, I have advocated those privileges that I think foreign investors in Serbia should enjoy, but I also advocate strict respect for the law and all those obligations arising from it when it comes first to foreigners. How insubordination of laws by these and such may be catastrophic and dangerous across the state and society, I will again point out to you in the case of this famous Saturday factory "North", which was privatized back in 2004. In fact, the foreign investor was obliged by buying a factory to invest 16m euros over the next five years. His intentions were completely different. A little after privatisation, he sold all the "North" property abroad, which was not small, for 5m euros, and bought the factory itself for four million and a hundred. Of the obligation defined by the contract, which concerns the investment of 16 million, nothing was done in the end. Investments never came, the contract was never respected. The consequences of non-compliance with laws and contracts and other legal acts are catastrophic for Subotica, and probably for the rest of Serbia and today we are able to treat them both with the help of the republican authorities and with the help of the provinces, but also with the help of our mayor Bogdan Laban. If this and that situation had not happened again, I have proposed, out of caution, one such amendment to Article 6. Foreign law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30168	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dickie.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30169	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have also submitted this amendment so that in some way this term - a foreign investor, I will have my place in the Foreign Law, because it deserves it. Why? Over the past three years, 170,000 jobs have been opened in Serbia thanks to a large number of foreign investments. The possibilities have been created for foreign investors to enter our country more easily. Domestic and foreign investors are even on the possibility and obtaining subsidies. Serbia is currently negotiating a 54 investment project worth about two and a half billion euros, which should provide about 29,000 jobs. In Serbia, over the next few years, until it becomes a full member of the European Union, it will be invested through various investments and projects, as many as five million euros, and all of this is possible thanks to Alexander Vukic, the wise state policy he leads, thanks to the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30170	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30171	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the debate on the particulars relating to the draft laws of the Interior Ministry, in particular Article 7. The proposal for a law on foreigners, it is very important to refer to Chapter 24, relating to justice, freedom and security. The main objective of realising the activity that covers this chapter is to enable people to move freely, while guaranteeing their safety. This includes EU border management, judicial co-operation, police co-operation, implementation of certain visa policies, migration and asylum issues. Knowing what issues this is, it can be concluded that the Ministry of the Interior plays a significant role, because it proposes legal solutions in these areas. The interior ministry's role is reflected in the issues of migration, asylum, human trafficking, terrorism, organised crime. I don't even have to mention the importance of these questions for our country. At the interior ministry, it is an obligation to ensure the security of citizens, the possibility of free movement, the reduction of cross-border crime rates and the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30172	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Vukojičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30173	What is indisputable for the Serbian Progressive Party, which is respect for the law. I have submitted to Article 7 an amendment relating to foreign investments aimed at improving the situation of vulnerable groups. What is also undeniable is that the foundations of the economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia were set by Aleksandar Vukic and the government of Aleksandar Vukic. Later, the government of Ana Brnabic continued with the continuity. And today, in the position of the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic also makes such efforts to attract new investments in the Republic of Serbia, and for the sake of better life, greater employability and reduction of poverty for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I was talking about respecting the law. I was talking about the interior ministry's jurisdiction when it comes to the protection of vulnerable social groups, especially children. I was talking about the extraordinary results of the Ministry of the Interior in the field of protection of the most vulnerable category, and these are children. But I also have to look back at the protection of children between 2005 and 2008. Yesterday I was talking about a time when a yellow company robbed children distracted by 157 million dinars, and today I'm going to talk about the robbery of Dragan Gilas who under construction of a building for children built the Big Brother facility, and where? In the most luxurious part of Belgrade, in Kosutnjak, by taking the city's building land and building on two thousand square meters, along with the pool, built a house called Big Brother. Of course, he did it at a time when he was the head of the National Office of the then-President Boris Tadic. What I want to point out is that this facility, of course, never entered, nor did one child come out, and the facility was supposed to be serving at this location for recreation, or for the living room of children. What I want to point out is that in this way, in just four years, Dragan Gilas took the Big Brother series from 2005 to 2008 and made a profit of 688.5 million dinars. Fortunately, citizens of Belgrade on March 4th recognized the robbery, kidnapping, thieving, illegal exorcism of city building land and trusted the list of Alexander Vukic – "Because we love Belgrade", because Belgrade's citizens trust hardworking, working, capable and sacrificed representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30174	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30175	And I have submitted this amendment to try to improve the text of the Foreign Law, and I have presented my city from where I come from in a promotional light. In fact, Leskovska koolin has great importance for the development of agriculture, since it is characterized by a very favourable climate and great potential - the fertility of land. Given the mentioned conditions, as well as the possibility of irrigation, especially by building accumulating lakes on Vlasina near the town of Bolara, in Jablanica near the town of Šilovo, it can be concluded that there are objective conditions for the development of intensive agricultural production in this area. Leskovac takes new outlines every day, and changes are seen in the fact that our city, which is an attractive place for foreign investors to invest, but the city whose local self-government has restored trust, both domestic and foreign investors, who see the support and reliable partner in the town of Leskovac. What no one can dispute is that in the town of Veternica it works and builds, reduces the number of unemployed and, most importantly, there are good foundations for further foreign investment and development of the city itself. I will list just a few examples - the reconstruction of the building of the former “Synthetics” with the help and support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which invested 185 million dinars for this project, has been built or reconstructed in the city by 34 cars in the total length of more than 9,000 meters, worth of which is 351 million 496 thousand dinars, outside of the city has been built or reconstructed a total of 25 cars from Niška to 28 March, with a value of 106 million dinars, in the course of providing funds for the realisation of the project, the expansion and reconstruction of Bulevar Nikola Pasic, a share from Niška to 28th, whose value is 160 million dinars. Recent visit by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has defined the funds sought and will soon begin construction. In the city itself, a total area of about 17,000 square metres was built or renovated, for which about 53 million dinars were allocated from the city budget. The water network was built about 32,000 meters long, and the value of the works is about 96 million dinars. The sewerage network was built in the length of eight and a half thousand metres, totalling 37.3 million dinars. Finally, through the realisation of the local employment action plan, the town of Leskovac has so far singled out about 130 million dinars, for which the city is due on the day of the National Employment Service is a joint prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30176	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Milija Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30177	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija and normally come from Svrlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is one of the municipalities that needs to invest foreign investment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 with the desire to support foreign investors to be able to invest in undeveloped municipalities, which are in mountainous areas, but also in municipalities that have the opportunity to invest in agriculture. You were just talking about herding through a cow-body system, and now I'm going to talk about herding, or beefing for a milking cow system, because we're witnessing that the number of cows in Serbia is getting smaller and smaller and therefore foreign investors' help by investing in municipalities, in our villages where we can provide a sufficient number of breeding throats, quality masculine throats, that through a program that can provide, say, 150 000 euros for an investor who wants to invest in a village, let's say the village where I come from, that's the village of Pluzina. There are people who would guard those cows, who would milk those cows and who could use their work through milk, through milk products, through cheese, through whitemush, to place these products everywhere, in any part of Europe and the world, because they are really quality and good products. I, as an MP of the United Peasant Party, will always speak from the SNS list about agriculture, about mountainous areas, because I want all citizens to hear how hard it is to live in our municipalities, but we who come from these municipalities never want to get out of there. I am sure Minister Stefanovic will always have meetings at the government's initiative to help small municipalities in undeveloped areas and to bring investors, as needed in Svrlig, Gadjin Han, the White Palanca and other municipalities that are underdeveloped and need assistance. Thank you again, and I'd like to ask you to vote for this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30178	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovksi. Does anyone want a word? Dubravka Filipovski, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30179	Article 7 defines respect for foreign law that resides in our country. The rule of law and a more efficient judiciary are key to the development of our institutions, and thus to foster investment in Serbia. On the other hand, investors staying in Serbia whose goal is economic development, together with our investors, should respect and be obliged to comply with the laws of the Serbian state. What it looks like when a foreign investor does not respect agreed obligations is best seen on the Gossé case. That is why I have submitted an amendment aimed at keeping foreign investors strictly in line with the laws of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30180	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Doctor Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the need for the law to be respected, of course, by which this member is currently engaged, Article 7. The bill, as well as the overall observation, the rule of law is indeed an important prerequisite for each development. The fact that Serbia is now developing far, far better than at a time when it has been mourned and burned by the yellow company and the Dosman team, if viewed through the context of this relationship between the rule of law and development, then it is a sort of confirmation that today and respect for the law and the issue of rule of law stand in the Republic of Serbia dramatically better than then. Among other things, this can be seen through the results of the fight against corruption. I recall that Angela Merkel recently said, when she met with the President of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, that she was impressed by the results Serbia has achieved in the fight against corruption. I believe that this statement will be welcomed by all, even those who have made known to us today, that they have changed their policies and that they have nothing against the EU now. I suppose that's why they see Mrs. Merkel's attitude and opinion as important. They say they have nothing against the EU, which is commendable, but they claim that they have some strong principled attitude towards KIM relations, which would also be commendable if it weren't strange, not to say more than disputed. More than disputed then, ladies and gentlemen, when this someone is identified with the views of Radulovic's movement on KIM, he says – we have the same attitude as those of KIM. This, ladies and gentlemen, means, for example, that Radulovic's position that Kosovo's membership in UNESCO should not be affected. Whoever matches those points of view and considers this claim to be his personal position, which would mean that we are summing up, ladies and gentlemen, that he probably doesn't even know what his views are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30182	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? My fellow Prince, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30183	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, we have respect for the laws of foreign investors investing in our country, and it is generally known that foreigners are obliged to comply with the laws of the country in which they reside, except when they are, of course, in diplomatic consular offices, because they then respect the laws of that consular representation, that state. A foreign investor must in no way be exempt from the law and must comply with all the provisions of Article 7 of this Act. Given that business practices often result from and some parts of the law differ from state to state, it is necessary to point out through this view that the investors of all business legal acts are exclusively governed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Only with such mutual respect and, as far as the law is concerned, strong partnership relations will accelerate and the economic development of the Republic of Serbia will accelerate, we will have new investments, new companies that want to invest in Serbia, and all for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30184	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30185	Dear Vice President, with this amendment, I wanted in some way to further define the respect of the law. I must say, Madam Vice President, that I will now, with this statement, disappoint our opposition MPs, to their misfortune, and fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that in Serbia, in two decades, time will be measured according to Alexander Vukic, this is because they constantly express their hatred for him, and that is the time before his arrival to power, and that is the time in which the nation was also satanized, the state of government of DS, Dragan Dilas and Boris Tadic, when it was humiliated, an economic, industrial and infrastructure-distant country in which there was an enormous unemployment of 25.6%. A country with great debt, a country with no hope and faith of its citizens in the future, a country ahead of bankruptcy, a country with robbery privatisation and a time when Alexander Vukic arrives at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state, a time of accelerated modernisation of Serbia. This is the time when we opened 300, 138km of highways, 480km of state roads, 360km of local roads, rehabilitated, built 311 bridges, restored 360 schools and hospitals, opened over 80 plants and factories in 130 cities of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30186	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The Cross of Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30187	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers with Associates, honourable fellow MPs, the rule of law certainly is part of an important environment for the arrival of foreign investment and in this part full support for these legal solutions. We from SNS won't get tired when we repeat more times that the problem in "The Irons" Smederevo has been solved. Not only because of Smederov and the Smederov people, but because it's a message of giving up this government from a solution to a problem that everyone has declared untold. It's a message of constant return to the problem of the final solution, when it comes to this government, it always ends successfully. We had a chance to hear from an expert here a solution to shut down the furnace in "The Irons", waved with some paper, he said – a ID card, and he looked through the tables. Alexander Vukic didn't look through Smeder's I.D., went to Smederevo. He didn't look through the tables, he gave these people his hand. He was helped by the Chinese president and saved 5,000 jobs. What's interesting about all this is that the Chinese president has been to Smedereva several times over most of the team's leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30188	Thank you. On Article 7th of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Dr. Mihajlo Jokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Dr. Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30189	It is my real pleasure to talk about this member, or supplementing this member by saying that foreign investors are subject to the laws of our country. I'd like the co-workers of the minister to write what I'm about to say, because what I'm about to say is very important for the city of Valjevo. Apparently, a Bulgarian bought a "Serbian". By 2000, "Srbianka", "Krusik", "Gradac", "Elin" are the pillars of the town of Valjeva. What happened? After October 5th, some Bulgarians reportedly arrive who bought "Serbian". Today this "Serbian woman" is totally destroyed, it's just walls and 15 acres, watch out, the continents in the center of Valjev. The bankruptcy proceedings took place at the Court of Commerce in Valjevo, and it was interrupted because the hoodlums agreed to also refer to laws in force in Bulgaria. And the Court of Commerce in Valjev sought interpretation through the Ministry of Justice so that bankruptcy could continue. It can't be over and the question is when will it end? I want to say how important it is that this Article 7 shows that attitude 5 is not related to everyone else, etc. means that term foreign investor, like a legal person. I've asked a parliamentary question here, what's going to happen to me, and the minister told me that's what the court needs to ask. The court asked, however, that procedure remains. I would pray on behalf of the citizens of Valjev, the city of Valjev, our further development, because I say "Serbian", this land and all that, and it is very important to speed up this process, and I want to show on the case what ignorance, disrespect, or mangupi in our ranks can lead to, because all of this has been done by the hoodlums of our ranks, as Professor Vujic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30190	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jolovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30191	Ladies and gentlemen, when we listen to the controversy today whether foreign investments are something the SNS invented, I come from Kragujevac, Kragujevac says, the heart of Shumadi, which is, the heart of Serbia, first of all, two things are about my city. It grew there and developed Serbian science and Serbian education, and that's where the Serbian industry began. In 1850, and some of the famous topolives, they essentially started to develop in Serbia and as usual, we Serbs usually talk about cannons. We forget that the factory also made plows that allowed Serbia to survive and feed. And then foreign investors, i.e. foreign technology, were a key factor in Serbia's growth and development. This has been repeated in Kragujevac history. We developed weapons, we developed cars, but it seems that neither in Kragujevac nor in all of Serbia we had animosity towards foreign technology. Today, when the city of Kragujevac begins to build the largest 80-hectare industrial zone, when "Simens" opens another factory that will employ 7,000 people, when a cornerstone is expected in the coming weeks to come and the beginning of the works to be appointed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we never seem to have had such potential for growth and development in history and such a chance for the future of young generations in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30192	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Here's my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30193	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, politicians, those who run the state, cities, the province, local self-government should be valued by what they do for the state, what they do for society, what they do for others, and not for what they do for themselves. Those before us turned it around. First they watched what they could do for themselves, and usually it was against both the people and the state. What's the result? Disrespect of the law. What's the second result, say, in the country? In 10 years, the 10 years they spent on international organisations 51 billion dollars, a wild predatory privatisation took place. Tens of thousands of acres became the property of their tycoon friends. Cooperatives have disappeared, capital has no longer been invested in the country and around the village. The cattle were expelled from the farm, the workers fired. 300,000 large cattle, cows, gone. A stock fund worth about 600m euros has disappeared annually. Those 600m euros emptied the farms, emptied the slaughterhouses, imported the meat of dubious quality and filled the oncology. That 600 million euros lost our farmers a year, lost our slaughterhouses, lost our workers. We want to see Serbia's fields and plums, Serbia's workers and peasants, boys and girls. That's what we see in Serbia, unlike what they've ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30194	Thank you. National MP Ivana Stojiljković submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusica Stojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Sonja Vlahovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Professor Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30195	I thank the chairman. The amendment concerns a member of the Bill on Foreigners which refers to the foreign investor being obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we essentially show today that we are truly in favour of the laws of each investor, but also by the rules of Serbia, according to the rules adopted here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore respecting the 2030 Agenda should now promote economic growth and development, but through the application of national legislation, means, the laws that we bring here. It should be said that the Chamber of Commerce, as a roof organisation of all economic operators in the Republic of Serbia, also held a conference on how the goals of sustainable development can in fact boost economic growth in Serbia. This in certain ways informed all businesses in Serbia that, in co-operation with foreigners and foreign investors, rules should be followed by those that respect Serbia's domestic investors. Today, the advantage of foreign direct investment and investors who are here is that when they open and register companies here in Belgrade in the Business Registers Agency do so under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, they pay taxes for their employees in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Transport of goods and services carried out here in the Republic of Serbia is also subject to VAT and is also going into Serbia's budget. More importantly, it is the obligation of all foreign investors to make 20% of the salaries higher than the average minimum wage in the Republic of Serbia. This shows that much of the benefits of the Republic of Serbia and the budget and all citizens of Serbia are because foreigners – investors respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. So the 2030 Agenda is exactly our way by 2030 as it should look in the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30196	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The 7th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30197	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment to Article 7. The law on foreigners is further defined by respect for the law of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the Foreign Law itself is to precisely define the rights and obligations of all foreign citizens entering, staying and moving across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment aims to extend these provisions to foreigners who are willing to invest in our country. Therefore, rights and obligations are defined, but procedures are being accelerated and the state authorities are obliged to work as urgently as possible and to work in the interest of providing all necessary conditions and obtaining documents. All this will directly affect the decision of foreign investors to come to our country, most importantly, and to invest in Serbia. After years of economic downturn, factory closures, job closures, suspicious privatisations, sales in impunity, a lot of work on recoverys that work there. The measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, subsidies related to the number of job openings, tax reliefs secured depending on the level of investment, tax refund and contribution, have attracted numerous foreign investors and it is certain that what the Republic of Serbia has done to implement structural reforms, political and financial stability, to fight crime and corruption has contributed to Serbia's position as a favourable investment destination. Much has been done to prepare the infrastructure itself, to connect in the region, to equip industrial zones, and it is quite certain that it affects investors to invest in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30198	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Studenka Kovacevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30199	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the amendments I have submitted concern foreigners – investors and their impact on economic development and the use of economic potentials in Serbia. I come from Bora, the city of copper and gold. Who was in Bor knows that Bor today is one of the most beautifully decorated mining cities. In Bor, ore has been exploited since 1903. The existing ore beds are exhausted, but the mineral reserves are huge, enough for the next 100 years of exploitation. To exploit new ore beds requires serious capital, capital measured by hundreds of millions of dollars. There is a need for recapitalisation, i.e. entering a strategic partnership. Given the importance of the pine mine for the eastern region, including the whole of Serbia, the choice of a strategic partner is a very carefully managed process. The process was planned to end by the end of this year. If we remember how the Borski baseen was treated by the Dossovna authorities and that she saw as the only solution to the problem the sale was in vain, as she also sold 13 RTB Bor companies, of which only one business today, today we can also be proud that Basen will get a development chance. With the responsible policy of the President of the Republic, as potential strategic partners for our RTB Bor, we today have the most serious companies in the world in this area. The aim of investors, i.e. future participants in the tender is to develop a pine company, with the protection of the environment, to provide rewards for employees, but also to benefit the communities in which they operate, in one word, anything that characterizes serious, successful giants in the production of copper and gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30200	Thank you. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs George Complensky and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a colleague, George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30201	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, respected ministers with associates, perhaps I can agree that you did not accept the amendment to Article 7, perhaps it is pretentious to define by law that a foreign investor who in his business encourages economic development and greater social equality is obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, all foreign citizens, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are absolutely obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. But the objective of this amendment is perhaps more to show that in no way is the foreigner – the investor, regardless of its importance, to the need for new investments of the Republic of Serbia cannot get any kind of privileged position to be above the laws in force in the Republic of Serbia, namely that it cannot be placed above any domestic investor or even above an ordinary foreigner, so to say, which has no investor status. It is precisely the continuation of that discussion that I had about and the amendment to Article 6, which is that they must ensure a faster passivity when it comes to obtaining a visa, obtaining the possibility that a foreigner who has spent a long time in Serbia, in a easier and simpler way, but that must not become a privilege that will in any way lead him to a more favourable position than domestic investors, but also in any citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30202	Thank you. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, prim. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Milovan Krikapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30203	My amendment refers to Article 7(5), which is added and reads - a foreign investor who, by his business, encourages the economic development of undeveloped municipalities is obliged to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The proposed amendment further defines respect for the law by foreign investors. Some object to why they repeat themselves, some things in the interpretation of this law, and those who are against entering foreign capital in our country are objecting. Some are in this solemn home, and some are out of this home, and they publicly explain it. Well, I will repeat a thousand times if it is necessary to understand what the proposal for a law on foreigners for the economic development of the Republic of Serbia means, because the one who brought them into Serbia has shed a lot of sweat and spilled a lot of angry nights to succeed and that is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30204	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30205	For several years, the so-called so-called "Serbs" have been held in Serbia for several years. the programme of regional management of refugees and exiled persons. The importance of this programme is very high because the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with an international organisation with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, wants to finally resolve the key issue of hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiled persons, and this is the issue of housing. This program itself takes place in several visions through the assignment of apartments, packages, building materials, installation houses, rural properties. Unfortunately, there are certain problems in the realisation of the programme itself. In fact, the government has set up a project-making unit to work on the implementation of the programme itself, but in practice it goes quite slowly. After users of the program get solutions, for example In September of last September, 302 refugee families received solutions for the building material parquets. Unfortunately, it's been six months, and 302 refugee families haven't gotten those parquets yet. They're bitter because they can't finish their houses and finally stop being tenants. Unfortunately, there are many such problems throughout Serbia, and refugee families are waiting for these solutions to be realised for both houses and rural estates and construction materials. I appeal to the project-making unit, I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to speed up this process as far as possible, and that people finally get very fast construction material, to finish their houses, to get rural properties, to get houses installed and to solve their key problem of no longer being tenants. Serbia's moral obligation to resolve the issue, to keep refugees and racial persons out of the status of tenants in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30206	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30207	Thank you. Respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, this amendment further defines respect for the law of the Republic of Serbia by foreign investors. In recent years, Serbia has improved business regulations in absolute terms. The time needed to register businesses has been reduced, the cost of establishing businesses and here, in which day we will adopt laws on foreigners that will improve the position of foreigners in our country and speed up economic development and reduce unemployment. Serbia ranks tenth in the ranking list when it comes to the speed of obtaining construction permits and therefore Serbia is on the Duing Business List of the World Bank, where the ranked countries are at 43 positions and making constant progress. For the past three years, Serbia has progressed 48 places. We from the SNS do not need recognition of opposition MPs because the SNS recognitions were given by world institutions, because the SNS gave recognition to citizens of Belgrade in the March 4th elections when they gave us support of 45%. It may be funny to mention an election for local community advice in Leskovac on my part and by my colleague, Zarko Bogatinovic, but, gentlemen, the election for the councils of local communities in Leskovac came up with the same number of citizens as almost one in last year's presidential elections, and that number of citizens who supported it was 93%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30208	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30209	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, with co-workers from the ministry, severe fiscal policy measures have led to economic recovery and economic recovery. This led to new investments, over 60 factories opened. What does that mean? We hired 170,000 people, ex-dosage authorities fired, fired 400,000 people, and we hired 170,000 people. Not only that, why are we a good country for investors? First of all, because security and security are essential conditions for attracting investors, and we have this happiness the Ministry of the Interior is doing its job perfectly. Also, Serbia is a factor of stability in the region, and 40% of total investment goes to the Republic of Serbia on the entire Western Balkans territory. I have to mention our big project, which is "Belgrade on Water". The most beautiful thing that's happened in the last 50 years, maybe 100 years in the city of Belgrade. Just look at the workers who work there, 700 families, 700 workers working, 700 families living well, normally living in the 21st century, and most importantly we've employed the machinery industry, the construction industry. Then there are other Belgrade projects alive and not only that, we will not only give investors citizenship if they ask, as far as I'm concerned, we can give them houses on Dedinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30210	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30211	I thank the chairman. I wanted to apologize to the experts across the street for submitting the amendment, but since they're not here, I'm counting on you to pass on my apology to them. Given that the MUP is responsible for the implementation and application of this law, I would particularly deal with the overall situation in the internal affairs sector, and with the situation in the MUP. Therefore, all relevant data suggest excellent results in the fight against crime, especially in the repression of organised crime, both in the repression of smuggling and drug trafficking, and in the repression of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, then in the repression of crimes against life and the body, then against property, and so on. When it comes to economic crime, we record significant results and when it comes to fighting corruption, abuse of official position, then combating the gray economy and so on. It is also important to point out here that the total number of crimes, as well as the number of crimes of the general criminality in decline, and that is not anyone's flat-rate observation, are very specific data that we draw from regular reports on the work of the MUP. From all of this, it is clear how clear investments are in modernization, so I am going back to the beginning of the amendments, because modernization of the MUP will thus increase, i.e. the fight against crime will be even more effective and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30212	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Dr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment is another good opportunity to explain to the citizens of Serbia that foreign investors are obliged to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not true what opponents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and opponents of the SNS say, which is that foreign investors in Serbia can do what they want. So, when investing his capital in the Republic of Serbia, he is, above all, obliged by the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia to establish a company registered in the Agency for Economic Registers in the Republic of Serbia. He is obliged to pay salaries to employees under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, to pay contributions to pension, health and disability insurance and to respect all other legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia that apply to domestic investors. What I also want to point out is that according to the State Aid Act and to government regulations relating to state aid control, the state of Serbia does not make absolutely any difference between foreign and domestic investors, when it comes to granting state aid. So, this thesis that only foreigners get state aid, or as it's popularly said subsidies, is simply not true. My colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have proved more than once yesterday and today that many companies whose founders of Serbia have received state aid and in this respect the state of Serbia does not make any discrimination. What I also want to emphasise through this amendment is strengthening the economic capacity of the Republic of Serbia directly related to strengthening its military, or defence power. Today, Serbs in all former Yugoslav republics, especially in Croatia, in Republika Srpska, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbs in KIM, see their queen in Serbia, and in Aleksandra Vukic they see the president, not only the Republic of Serbia but also their president. The strengthening of Serbia's economy is therefore a pillar and spine, strengthening Serbia's military power, not because Serbia would be a military threat to anyone, Serbia has no intention of war with anyone, no intention of kidnapping anyone's territory, no intention of committing aggression against anyone, but a strong Serbia, both in economic and military terms, is a guarantee of the security and respect for human rights of Serbs and in Croatia, a guarantee of the preservation of Republika Srpska, a guarantee for Serbs in KIM that they can stay on their eternal hearths. That is why one who does not understand the importance of investing in the Serbian economy cannot understand the policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30214	Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? It's a bright Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30215	I thank you, Chairman. The law on foreigners is an important legislative proposal that will certainly contribute to increasing foreign investors in our country. However, in addition to these good legal proposals for the arrival of investors, investment in infrastructure is very important. This is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized, planning the 2018 budget, when there are as many as 127 billion dinars planned for capital investments. I think it's important for me to do a little dipression on time. Before 2012, to show you how the infrastructure funds were planned and why we had less investment at the time. In 2009, 40 billion dinars, 33 billion dinars, 31 billion dinars, and 22 billion dinars were planned for capital investment. So, less and less, and we'd probably get to zero if it hadn't been for 2012 to take over the SNS. I would like to highlight some of the significant capital investments that I think will significantly contribute to investors' decision to invest in Serbia. These are the construction of the highway E-76 Obrenovac – LJig, for which nine billion dinars were defined, the construction of the E-75 shares of Kelebija-Petlja Subotica five billion 800 million dinars, the construction of the E-80 highway on the section of the Prosec-Red River and Chifrik-Pirot, the construction of the E-75 shares of the Grdelica-Caricina valley-Vladičin Han, amounting to 3 billion and 756 million dinars. Construction of the highway E-75 on Grabovnica-Grdelica and Vladičin Han-Donjine-Radovac, construction of the highway E-80 Nis-Dimitrovgrad and the bypass around Dimitrovgrad for three billion dinars. Also significant are the Novo Sad Science and Technology Park, which has been identified by 200 million dinars, a fast traffic station in Novi Sad-Rum, for which 50 million dinars have been identified. The Hungarian-Serbian railway project, which is defined by 800 million dinars, and certainly the Željev Bridge in Novi Sad, which is defined by 790 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30216	Thank you. National MP Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Todorovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30217	Thank you, Chairman. All foreigners coming into our country and staying must respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, this also applies to foreign investors. In fact, investors want a stable and safe country to keep their investment and capital safe, and Serbia is a stable and safe country. Since I remained unarranged during the previous exhibition, I will continue where I left off, related to foreign investors and to the city of Nis, which has an exceptional geographical location and is located at the intersection of the roads of the east and west, has good infrastructure, highly qualified personnel, close to Konstantin Veli airport, which records a record number of passengers, so that the town of Nis is a very tempting place for domestic and foreign investors. Also, what I'm saying is that we also record an increase in the number of foreign tourists coming from different parts of the world. As for investments in the process of realization when the town of Nis is concerned with mentioning Leona, a German company currently employs 5,000 factory workers in Prokuplje and Doljevac. The number of employees will be 2200 workers by October 2019. Currently in Nis is a factory and is planned to finish work in half 2018, so the total number of employees will be 2200. In 2016, Austrian company Cuntobel donated the most modern street ice lighting in Nis and Belgrade and donated a smart operating system. So, they're going to hire 1100 workers, and the factory's completion is planned in July 2018. The IM-Filipine company will employ 1250 workers over the next 10 years. The completion of the work was planned in July 2018. Johnson Electric, a new factory in the same location, currently employed by 1400, and another 2,000 jobs are planned. It is currently in the realization of the third phase B that will be this year. Philip Morris, in January 2017, the investor was granted a license for a central logistics warehouse for Europe of 23,000 square metres. The company Turkish Aster-textile, which bought the EI-Charge out of bankruptcy in 2015 and reconstructed the facility. The plan is to employ a total of 2,000 workers. Delta Real Estate, an investor, intends to build a shopping centre and housing facilities in the former Nis-express bus garage, an investment worth 80m euros per 40,000 square meters. Aqua park in Niška Banja, worth ninem euros, 80 jobs, is expected to begin construction in 2018. A capital clinic, or the Novi Nis project, at the City Hall, currently invested sixm euros, plans another 160m euros in total. Credo and EPS -- five million euros. NIS 18m euros, and 100 jobs. Low Milkara 1m euros, 120 jobs. A 1m-euro technical reconstruction, 300 jobs. Thank you. Continue after the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30218	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30219	During the debate in detail on the draft law on foreigners, all along my colleague and I have pointed to the importance of respect for the rights and functioning of state institutions and existence, if I may say so, of the rule of law. The fact that we have had this much inflow of foreign investment and the fact that there is so much interest in foreign investors is being denied by all those who say that the rule of law does not work in Serbia. Would a foreign investor come to a state where institutions don't function, where rights are violated, where the law is not respected? Exactly what is happening now, and this inflow of foreign investment disproves them and confirms that Serbia is a legal state and that it is an effective state. We talked about how important it is that all levels of government support their work by foreign investment. We talked about the importance of the judiciary, of the state administration, but of course a very large role in supporting foreign investment was also played by local self-government. This is exactly where one of the most important shifts and changes was made in relation to the period 2008 to 2012, when local self-government was a public prey for the time being, when mainly unprofessional party personnel were employed and corruption was ruled at the local level. The change at local level has now occurred, as the importance of foreign investment has been recognised, as it has joined the creation of local and economic development strategies, local economic development offices are forming, tax policies have changed. One openness towards foreign investment has been realized, services have been improved and entirely local self-governments which now function efficiently and professionally, are one of the pillars of attracting foreign investment and it is particularly important to highlight. The changes in local self-government, which have just happened, have contributed to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30220	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is a colleague of Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30221	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens, the 7th Amendment I have submitted is certainly also directed at foreigners, since the Foreigners Act is on the agenda, but especially on foreign investors, and I particularly want to point to one of the biggest, not one of the biggest, but the biggest investment that has entered the Republic of Serbia, which has once acted as an idea and acted as an impossible mission. Here, for a full month, a month and a half, April 26, 2018, it will be three years since the signing of the contract. So, on 26 April 2015, a contract was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and by Vice-President Zorana Mihajlovic and the chairman of the board of directors, Igl Hills, Muhammad Al Abara at three and a half billion euros. So, we're talking about a project that in three years' time, it's not a fantasy anymore, and all those who go through Belgrade see and see the future of this project, with a million square meters of residential, 750,000 meters of business and commercial space, 62,000 public content, 13,000 employees, 17,000 residents. I'm gonna pull a parallel. When the Eiffel Tower was built away in 1889, in the fields of Mars in Paris, on the centenary of the French Revolution, it was then the world's largest object at 300 metres high. Some of the Parisians thought it was a mockery, that it should be destroyed, and here today it is one of the world's greatest attractions, which has a visit of five and a half million tourists annually. I am telling you, and I am proud to have been a member and part of the congregation's majority, who in 2015 voted Lex Specialise on the theme "Beograd na Voda", that in 30 years, what a project, when the complete story of "Belgrade on Water" is completed, will be the centre of the Balkans and will be the place where it will come from all over the world. I hope that in this assembly session, we will vote in favour of both Novi Sad and Šabac and Loznica, Kruševac, Nis and all other cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30222	Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a colleague Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30223	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which further defines the respect of the law of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that foreign investors, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, must respect the laws. Unfortunately, there are also those, mostly those who should sit on the opposite side, who think that the laws for them are not valid, but about what they best show citizens from the election to the elections, and that we are on the right track and that foreign investors and domestic investors and citizens of Serbia believe us, also shows that besides them in our country, that there is a responsible policy and how the state is run, those of our citizens who are on temporary work abroad also show. Now I would like to illustrate how our fellow citizens, who, as a result of their temporary work, recognized how the country and the city were run, began to invest. An example is a cruise hospital that was indeed in one bad state in 2012, and now the donations of our citizens living abroad have been restored to a more beautiful and much better condition. Of course, the Ministry of Health, as well as all those other ministries, are trying to get our country back on stable feet, to be one healthy and orderly state, and of course we're doing it and we're on the right track, as all of these results behind us show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30224	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bojanic. Does anyone want a word? A fellow Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30225	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will read the amendment to Article 7 that I have submitted. In Article 7. The proposal for a law on foreigners, paragraph 5, reads: A foreign investor who in his business encourages the sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I will agree here with the government's opinion that this issue has been resolved by many other laws, above all that domestic and foreign investors are equal in the Republic of Serbia, so that what applies to domestic investors is also true for foreign investors. But my thinking was, above all, directed in that direction, and I have repeated it several times yesterday and today, to strengthen on this amendment of the government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts in the economic and sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia. Normally, this is all about the already mentioned Agenda 20-30, mentioned by my esteemed colleague Aleksandra Tomic and the UN protocol, where it writes among other things – Available and renewable energy, clean water, climate action, decent work, industrial innovation; I think it is quite enough to mention a few chapters covered by this agenda, so if this is covered by the UN agenda, I hope that it will apply and should apply to both domestic and foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30226	Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stanković and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30227	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly and I am taking the opportunity to ask the minister, as rapporteur, as he pointed out in his explanation that relevant structures have been consulted on the proposal for this law in the public debate, citing among other things the NGO. But I haven't heard of whether among these reference organisations and institutions that need to discuss legal proposals are located, for example, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Political Sciences and the Institute of International Economy and Policy, which deal with, among other things, international relations and international economic relations and the position of foreign citizens in our republic. It's a principle question I'd like to ask the minister to answer. Secondly, I would like to point out that this article provides for the obligation of state and other bodies, including natural persons, to inform the competent state authorities of any failures related to foreigners. And I would like to inform you of this opportunity and of a failure that affects several million citizens of Serbia and the owner of registered vehicles in the Republic of Serbia, with the license plates that represent, as far as I can understand, a mark in official use in the Republic of Serbia. If that is true, Mr. Minister, if the registration plates were in service, then it would be logical for those registration plates in the Republic of Serbia to be in accordance with Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that they should be in Serbian and Cyrillic. They should also be in line with Article 10 of the Declaration of Accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30228	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30229	First of all, I just want you to know that we have both letters. We use both of them, and in 1968 they were the first tables to have latin markings in then-Yugoslavia. It seems to me that for the first time in 2010 there was a combination of these letters that also have latinic markings, some from foreign letters, ipislon, double v, etc. We just, after the citizens were issued these tables, they got them, they used them on their vehicles, they paid them, so that we wouldn't expose those citizens to new costs, and so that the state wouldn't be exposed to new costs, they decided that when those tables expired, when they were normally expired, that we would withdraw those tables and issue them new ones that wouldn't have that kind of marking, at no extra cost, they would just pay for the new table, as they would, in any other case, and that they didn't have those labels. So, citizens won't be damaged and the state doesn't have an extra cost to make an extraordinary new plate. These tables point out, I think, after seven years of their release and after that, the citizens have the right to replace. For some, it was during the previous year. During the replacement, they will not be given tables, according to the new rule, the tables they have – c, c, d, g, print, double v, so those labels that can cause certain interference or problems. We wanted it to be economical, to be efficient and that none of the citizens had any additional costs because they were issued such tables in 2010. Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30230	You have no right to a replica, the minister just answered your question. (Miladin Chevarlic: I don't think Mr. Minister is right when he says both letters are... ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Comrade Vujadinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30231	Thank you, Chairman. Through the interpretation of the amendment, we also reach Article 8 of the proposed law. In this regard, Article 8 of the Law provides for the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons when it comes to foreigners, and thus foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia, foresees the obligations of state authorities, natural and legal persons, when it comes to indicating non-illegal residence and at all to illegal actions and any other changes, when it comes to their status and relationship to the laws of the Republic of Serbia. As these clearly defined obligations by the state authorities towards foreigners, the obligation somewhere around here is to remember what happened in the past and that we, as MPs and those who have been delegated, warn and remind us of everything that has happened and all the criminal and illegal actions of the past. Somewhere I see as a commitment, so I'm going to remind you of one from Subotica, again, I guess it's for me as a MP somehow and most important and close. Sometime in 2010 in Subotica, then authorities, headed by the DS, began shaming at 395 hectares of land. I don't know if I should go into your details. Some 203 hectares in Žednik, Đurđin 102 hectares, 89 in Bikov, are catastrian municipalities that were designed for shaming and are projected 40 million dinars for the job. Of that job, a total of 35, 36 hectares were forested, so less than 10%. The money was, of course, spent, without any evidence that the planting was ever done, that the seedlings were even taken over. The epilogue is known to police and prosecutorial authorities, but also to the citizens of Subotica, unfortunately. Is this true? I think it's easy to determine. If it isn't true, then today in the north of Backa would be an untransparent forest, and you can see when you start that it's still a barrel of plains and nothing else. But 40 million disappeared magically. Now, if something like this hadn't happened to us, I have submitted this amendment, which points to the need for constant representation and status and attitude towards the law and when it comes to foreigners, but also foreign investors and other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30232	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30233	Thank you. In order not to repeat what my previous fellow amendment promoter has said, Article 8 provides for the obligation of state bodies of natural and legal persons in certain situations. I have suggested my amendment that these obligations be related, let me say, by introducing a new attitude four, also to a foreign investor. Why does it matter? It is important because it is certain that increasing the number of investors and foreign investment in Serbia will create an opportunity, whether we want it or not, to increase the number of illegal activities, possibly potential criminal activities, etc. But it's a good thing we're bringing a whole set of internal affairs laws these days, because that's how we're going to introduce BIA into this system, let's say, milderly speaking, monitoring the work of foreigners, and I think that this will also be the basis for an electronic data exchange platform and information between bodies involved in the fight against all forms of crime, which will be the basis for so-called. National criminal intelligence system. I think we're ready to enter this increased appearance of foreign investors on our premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30234	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30235	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, and this amendment I wanted to point to the importance of the foreign investor's notion, and as it stands in the light of my amendment. In previous days, we have witnessed calls for discrimination against SNS MPs, because we are actually supporting the government's policy to the amendments, because we point out that by strengthening the economy, we are strengthening both the judicial system and the police. Because we point out the successes of the MUP, we suffer here the insults that are directed to the misrepresentation of our work, but also the work of the MUP. But the facts are there, and I'm just bringing them out. Yeah, I'm talking about investments. I am talking about the economic and economic development of Serbia, the development of the justice system and the police. I'm talking about the development of all segments of society, something that just a few years ago was the future we believe in. I speak because I can, and I can, because there are results, because President Aleksandar Vukic kept his promises, because the government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting a policy of development of our country, a policy of progress without pardon, a policy of throwing away all the bad years and the bad policies that we have survived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30236	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30237	I will continue to talk about vulnerable social groups, and I will rely on the Foreign Law, which is also in line with EU directives on the protection of third-country nationals, as regards human trafficking. In fact, I would like to commend that this legal solution has also been provided in a perfectly adequate way with the full legal certainty of the alleged victims of human trafficking and human trafficking victims. In particular, in this part, I would like to highlight the link between the MUP and other competent institutions and other state bodies that are responsible for adequate support, to help victims of human trafficking for its recovery and to actively engage with police, with co-operation with the prosecution and other state bodies as necessary. Of course, I would like to point out to this that the protection of minors who are victims of human trafficking is particularly prominent. What I also want to point out is that the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy in prevention and fight against human trafficking in September. Also, I would like to point out that in the framework of the Police Directorate on September 1st, the Office for Co-ordination of activities in the fight against human trafficking and, also, I would like to point out that this country and what importance it attaches to this problem, so a Council has been formed to combat human trafficking within the framework of the government, whose chairman of this Council is you, the minister of police. Also, I want to commend all of your activities that have sometimes been linked to other police stations, or other interior ministries, by curbing human trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30238	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Bogatinovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30239	Thank you, Chairman. I have submitted this amendment in order to improve the text of the law, and thus to suggest that the local self-government of the town of Leskovci is one of the right places to invest foreign investors. When we took responsibility in the city of Leskovec in 2012, we found a really difficult situation, both in the public sector and here, I underline, in private enterprises. The protracted power, which was economically completely ruined by Leskovac, had a very bad relationship, both with domestic businesses and with rare foreign investors. These were Ginsi companies and Autostop Interiors, which employ 1,600 workers together today, and before that 2012, barely a few dozen workers had a dilemma about whether to continue their business in Leskovac. The Turkish company Djinsi made a definitive decision after 2012 to stay in Leskovac for the long term. Currently, it employs 1,000 workers, but thanks to the government of Serbia and the town of Leskovac as a magnificent production facility, which will be rented in the long term, it will employ another 350 Leskovcans. The company earns 12m euros, and in 2017 alone, it paid around 165m dinars on the basis of taxes and contributions for workers. Only on this basis, 165 million dinars. Count on what it is from 2012 to today, and how much it will only pay in the coming years when wage growth is expected. It is not ambitious to say that the budget alone from this firm will receive an amount measuring tens of millions of euros. Critics have instructed this investment by the government of Serbia and the town of Leskovci as a failure, what a shame. The Greek company Autostop Interiors hired nearly 500 workers, and with its subsidiary, Leskotex, nearly 600. "Autostop" works 100% production for "Tojota motors companies" and "Lescotex" produces industrial large bags for a known buyer and 100% production is placed on the Western European market. They have total income of around 23m euros, and only on the basis of taxes and contributions for workers in 2017, about 140m dinars, and only on this basis. I mention these companies because they're a company that employs textile workers and restores the glow of the wooded textile industry. The rapid growth in production after 2012, which is 100% exported and made real income to the state and the city, is evidence of both our work and our vision. On this occasion, I would like to say that the continuation of this state policy is extremely important for the south of Serbia, so that the further development of Leskovec and the opening of jobs would keep young and educated people and give opportunity to build their future and family in Leskovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30240	Thank you. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30241	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, Mr. Stefanovic, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 for a foreign investor, because I think a foreign investor who wants to work, that investment can do so in municipalities that are underdeveloped, in areas that need to be helped through programmes given throughout Serbia. In particular, I would now mention, since I was talking about several types of agricultural production, something very important to us in municipalities such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica, Merošin and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia where there is a great chance of working on medicinal plants. A large number of our businessmen are finally engaged in the production and harvesting of medicinal plants from my municipality, but there is a great chance of growing medicinal plants through a farmer's type of production, such as that. in Beli Palanca, where farm production of lavender is being done, it is meant to be, where future investors, or foreign investors, can finance and plant planting, harvesting medicinal plants and investing in small distilleries, where through etharic oils, this final product will be very important and will be exported everywhere in EU countries and beyond. Through a programme of medicinal plants that can be used by local self-government with the help of foreign investors to work, to help our agricultural producers who live in mountainous and mountainous areas, and thus through the program of this medicinal plant, through the placement of medicinal plants, through the finished product, through the distilleries, I am sure that we will have the opportunity and the opportunity to provide a greater profit for our agricultural producers who deal with medicinal plants. Once again, as MP and president of the United Peasant Party, who has been elected from the SNS list, I will vote for all these laws, and I would call on fellow MPs to vote for this amendment, because I think investment in undeveloped areas, investment in agriculture, is a investment in all of Serbia, and so does our President, Mr Vukic, who is ready at any moment to come to Svrlig and Bela Palanko and in all undeveloped municipalities, because only in this way will he see the place of living and how to invest. Once again, thank you very much and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30242	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 8, it is proposed to introduce clear and publicly known rules in the conduct and introduction of such rules, of course, always represents an adequate attitude towards the need to introduce transparency, and this transparency is always the best possible answer to all the challenges involved in the issues of possible corruption. This issue was also raised at this session, representatives of certain parties or groups, groups, it is now a modern term, and all of them, of course, of the former regime, mentioned the organisation "Transparens International" and their annual index of perception of corruption in a particular society. They criticised the fact that the value of the index for the Republic of Serbia has changed by one point, as said in the previous year. But they failed to notice, to confess next. Since when this index is measured and since it is published "Transparens International", 2013, 2014, 2015, so, every year, from 2013 to today, the value of this index for the Republic of Serbia is better, compared to the value allocated to us in 2012. Therefore, the perception of corruption, but also the general chance of fighting corruption in the Republic of Serbia, is better than it was during the yellow company and other members of the Dossos regime. As this corruption functioned at that time, they best explained it themselves, and today it can also be found on the Internet, in the report so-called. DS's working body. They themselves explained their mechanisms and principles in order – furnished tenders, set up competitions and installment for percentage. Today, when it's gone, we become an orderly society, a modern and orderly country, all the opposite of a corrupt DOS palace, as they were only able to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2018-03-13-0.u30244	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Stefana Miladinović and Gordana Komic. We continue the search on the details of the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE SIDE LAW. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Katarina Tomašević, Assistant Minister of Interior, Milica Ćatic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Vladimir Rebić, Director of the Police Directorate, Milan Andrić of the Police Directorate, Marko Milivojevic of the National Criminal and Technical Centre, Zorica Vulić, Emilia Joksic and Zoran Vesić of the Border Police Administration, Nebojša Arsov, Head of Transport Police, Zorica Loncar Kasalica, Head of the Management of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Ministry, Natasa Raketić and Mileva Karašić, from the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior and Jelena Puac, legal adviser for the Normal Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word is a colleague of Arsic's.
